<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>19970109_10-Q_edgar_data_804188_0000804188-97-000002_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>127290</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>88546</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>370</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>11</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>2</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000804188-97-000002.hdr.sgml : 19970110
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000804188-97-000002
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		3
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19961130
FILED AS OF DATE:		19970109
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CAPITAL ASSOCIATES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000804188
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	WHOLESALE-COMPUTER & PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE [5045]
		IRS NUMBER:				841055327
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0531

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-15525
		FILM NUMBER:		97502889

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		7175 W JEFFERSON AVE STE 3000
		CITY:			LAKEWOOD
		STATE:			CO
		ZIP:			80235
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3039801000

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LlAPnZyXmD7+r7oHRPJvbdWYA3mSMSTlksHm9YjgxTFr3qZouB3RYWU4OlaNLwq/
 HkVMsjGeBwN0agWe/Pkrnw==

 0000804188-97-000002.txt : 19970110

10-Q
 1
 2Q97.001

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-Q

[x]  Quarterly  report  pursuant  to section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
          Exchange Act of 1934

          For the quarterly period ended November 30, 1996

     [ ]  Transition  report  pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
          Exchange Act of 1934.

                         Commission file number 0-15525

CAPITAL ASSOCIATES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         Delaware                                           84-1055327
(State or other jurisdiction of                (IRS Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

7175 West Jefferson Avenue, Lakewood, Colorado                80235
 (Address of principal executive offices)                   (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (303) 980-1000

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No
                                      ---

The number of shares  outstanding  of the  Registrant's  $.008 par value  common
stock at December 31, 1996, was 5,002,682.

Exhibit Index - Page 16

1 of 18

CAPITAL ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX
                                      -----

                                                                           PAGE
PART I.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION                                            NUMBER

    Item 1.    Financial Statements (Unaudited)

               Consolidated Balance Sheets - November 30, 1996
               and May 31, 1996                                              3

               Consolidated Statements of Income - Three and
               Six Months Ended November 30, 1996 and 1995                   4

               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows -
               Six Months Ended November 30, 1996 and 1995                   5

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                    6

Item 2.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
               Condition and Results of Operations                        7 - 14

PART II.  OTHER INFORMATION

    Item 1.    Legal Proceedings                                            15

    Item 6.    Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K                             15

               Exhibit Index                                                16

               Signature                                                    18

2 of 18

CAPITAL ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                   (Unaudited)
                             (Dollars in thousands)

                                     ASSETS

The accompanying notes are an integral part
                   of these consolidated financial statements.

                                     3 of 18

CAPITAL ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                   (Unaudited)
                (Dollars in thousands, except earnings per share)

The accompanying notes are an integral part
                   of these consolidated financial statements.

                                     4 of 18

CAPITAL ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                   (Unaudited)
                             (Dollars in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part
                   of these consolidated financial statements.

                                     5 of 18

CAPITAL ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                   (Unaudited)

1.  Basis of Presentation
    ---------------------

    The  accompanying  unaudited  consolidated  financial  statements  have been
    prepared in accordance  with generally  accepted  accounting  principles for
    interim  financial  information  and the  instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule
    10-01  of  Regulation  S-X.  Accordingly,  they  do not  include  all of the
    information  and  disclosures  required  by  generally  accepted  accounting
    principles for annual  financial  statements.  In the opinion of management,
    all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) considered
    necessary  for  a  fair  presentation   have  been  included.   For  further
    information, please refer to the financial statements of Capital Associates,
    Inc. (the "Company"),  and the related notes,  included within the Company's
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1996 (the "1996
    Form 10-K"), previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

    The  balance  sheet  at May 31,  1996  has been  derived  from  the  audited
    financial statements included in the Company's 1996 Form 10-K.

    Certain  reclassifications  have been made to the prior  periods'  financial
    statements to conform to the current periods' presentation.

6 of 18

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

I.  Results of Operations
    ---------------------

    General Comments

    During the three  months ended  November  30, 1996 the Company  reported net
    income  of  $246,000  representing  its  eighteenth  consecutive  profitable
    quarter.

    Operating  results  are  subject  to  fluctuations  resulting  from  several
    factors,  including  seasonality  of lease  originations,  variations in the
    relative  percentages of the Company's leases entered into during the period
    which are  classified  as DFLs or OLs or are sold for fee  income as well as
    the level of fee income  obtained from the sale of leases in excess of lease
    equipment  cost.  The Company will adjust the mix of OLs and DFLs and volume
    of leases  sold to  private  investors  from  time to time,  when and as the
    Company  determines  that it  would be in its best  interests,  taking  into
    account profit opportunities, portfolio concentration and residual risk.

Lease Originations

    In the ordinary  course of business,  the Company will  continue to (1) sell
    new  lease  originations  to its PIFs (to the  extent  the PIFs  have  funds
    available for such purpose) or private investors and (2) sell seasoned lease
    transactions  (previously originated leases held in the Company's portfolio)
    to  private  investors.  Presented  below is a  schedule  showing  new lease
    originations  volume and the placement of new lease originations  during the
    six-month  period  ended  November  30, 1996 as  compared to the  comparable
    period for fiscal year 1996 (in thousands).

7 of 18

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

I.   Results of Operations, continued
     ---------------------

     Lease Originations, continued

     Leasing is an alternative to financing equipment with debt. Therefore,  the
     ultimate  profitability of the Company's leasing transactions is dependent,
     in part, on the general level of interest  rates.  Lease rates tend to rise
     and fall with interest rates,  although lease rate movements  generally lag
     interest   rate   movements.   Because  the  Company   finances  its  lease
     transactions   with   recourse   and   non-recourse   debt,   the  ultimate
     profitability  of  leasing  transactions  is  dependent,  in  part,  on the
     difference  between  the  interest  rate  inherent  in the  lease  and  the
     underlying debt rate ("rate spread").  Certain of the Company's competitors
     have access to lower cost funds than the Company.  However, the Company has
     developed  relationships  with various private investors and formed various
     strategic  alliances  with  companies  that  have a lower  cost of  capital
     enabling the Company to originate and sell leases at competitive prices.

Interim Financial Results

     Presented below are schedules (prepared solely to facilitate the discussion
     of results of operations that follows)  showing  condensed income statement
     categories and analyses of changes in those  condensed  categories  derived
     from the Consolidated Statements of Income.

8 of 18

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

I.   Results of Operations, continued
     ---------------------

     EQUIPMENT SALES MARGIN

     Equipment sales revenue (and related  equipment  sales margin)  consists of
     the following (in thousands):

9 of 18

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

I.   Results of Operations, continued
     ---------------------

     Transactions During Initial Lease Term

     Equipment  sales to PIFs  increased  during the three months ended November
     30, 1996, as compared to the comparable period in fiscal 1996,  principally
     because  more leases were  identified  and closed that  satisfied  the PIFs
     underwriting standards.

     Equipment  sales to private  investors  increased  primarily  because lease
     originations  increased  and, as  discussed  above,  the Company  sometimes
     determines  it would  be in its  best  interests  to  place  certain  lease
     transactions with private  investors.  Margin on equipment sales to private
     investors as a percentage of sales revenue decreased  primarily because the
     Company  records  leasing  revenue  while it uses its Bank Facility to hold
     leases  pending  sale to private  investors.  Lease  originations  from one
     customer   accounted  for   approximately   one-half  of  the  total  lease
     originations volume for the six months ended November 30, 1996.

     Transactions Subsequent to Initial Lease Term

     The Company has been  successful in realizing  gains on the  remarketing of
     its  equipment   after  the  initial  lease  term  for  the  past  eighteen
     consecutive  quarters.  The  remarketing of equipment for an amount greater
     than its book value is reported as equipment sales margin (if the equipment
     is  sold)  or as  leasing  margin  (if the  equipment  is  re-leased).  The
     realization  of less  than  the  carrying  value  of  equipment  (which  is
     typically  not known until  remarketing  subsequent  to the  initial  lease
     termination has occurred) is recorded as provision for losses.  As shown in
     the table above,  the  realizations  from sales  exceeded the provision for
     losses during the three and six month periods ended November 30, 1996, even
     without  considering  realizations from remarketing  activities recorded as
     leasing margin.

     Margins from  remarketing  sales (i.e.,  sales  occurring after the initial
     lease  term) are  affected  by the number and  dollar  amount of  equipment
     leases that mature in a particular quarter. In general, because the Company
     did not  significantly add to its own lease portfolio during the four years
     prior to May 31, 1995,  fewer leases have  matured and less  equipment  has
     been  available for  remarketing  each quarter since May 31, 1995. For this
     reason,  margins from  remarketing  sales declined during the three and six
     month periods ended November 30, 1996,  compared to the comparable  periods
     of 1996.  Remarketing revenue and margin are expected to decline further in
     future  quarters as maturing  leases  continue to decrease.  The  Company's
     ability to remarket  additional  amounts of equipment and realize a greater
     amount of  remarketing  revenue in future  periods is  dependent  on adding
     additional leases to its portfolio. However, adding leases to the Company's
     portfolio will not immediately increase the pool of maturing leases because
     new leases typically are not remarketed until after the initial term (which
     averages approximately four years).

10 of 18

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
        of Operations

I.   Results of Operations, continued
     ---------------------

     Transactions Subsequent to Initial Lease Term, continued

     The changes in the  Company's  equipment  under lease  during the six month
     period ended November 30, 1996 consisted of the following (in thousands):

Leasing Margin

     Leasing margin consists of the following (in thousands):

Leasing  margin  increased  primarily due to growth in the Company's  lease
     portfolio.   In  addition,   leasing   revenue  for  fiscal  1997  included
     approximately   $150,000  and  $500,000  for  the  three  and  six  months,
     respectively, related to recently settled litigation.

11 of 18

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

I.   Results of Operations, continued
     ---------------------

     LEASING MARGIN, continued

     Leasing margin ratio fluctuates based upon the mix of direct finance leases
     and  operating  leases  and the extent to which the  Company  uses its Bank
     Facility to hold certain leases pending sale to private investors.

     OTHER INCOME

     Other Income consists of the following (in thousands):

OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES

     Operating  and Other  Expenses  increased  $0.6  million  (13%) for the six
     months  ended  November  30, 1996 as compared to the  comparable  period in
     fiscal 1996. The principal components of the increase were:

     *   $400,000 of increased  compensation,  primarily commissions as a result
         of higher levels of originations (see page 7 of 18).
     *   $200,000 for costs associated with increased marketing activities.
     *   $150,000 for costs  associated  with the  relocation  of the  Company's
         Chairman of the Board to Denver, Colorado.
     *   and that Operating and Other Expenses for the six months ended November
         30,  1995  included  (i)  $325,000  related to the  termination  of the
         Stockholders'  Agreement and (ii) a $200,000 credit  resulting from the
         difference between estimated incentive compensation and actual payments
         as approved by the Company's Board of Directors.

     INTEREST EXPENSE ON RECOURSE DEBT

     Recourse  interest  expense  decreased  due to a  decrease  in the  average
     outstanding balance of recourse bank debt.

                                    12 of 18

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
        of Operations

I.   Results of Operations, continued
     ---------------------

     INCOME TAXES

     Income tax  expense is provided  on income at the  appropriate  federal and
     state statutory rates applicable to such earnings.  The aggregate statutory
     tax rate is 40%, adjusted for utilization of the Company's ITC carryforward
     (see Note 11 to Notes to the Consolidated  Financial Statements to the 1996
     Form 10-K).

II.  Liquidity and Capital Resources
     -------------------------------

     The Company's Credit  Agreement,  which was scheduled to mature on November
     30, 1996, has been extended  through November 30, 1997. The Company reduced
     the maximum  availability  under the  warehouse  line from $32.0 million to
     $22.8  million and  increased  the maximum  availability  under the working
     capital line from $5.0 million to $7.5 million. In addition, the bank group
     was decreased from five to four lending institutions.  The Company believes
     the new bank facility will be adequate to fund current operations.

     Currently the Company is offering  units of CPYF-IV for sale to the public.
     During the first six months of fiscal 1997,  the Company sold $11.3 million
     of Class A units of CPYF-IV.  For the remainder of the offering  period for
     CPYF-IV (which ends in April 1998),  the Company has $37.5 million of Class
     A units in CPYF-IV  available  for sale,  which will  represent a source of
     liquidity and acquisition fee income to the Company.

III. Business Plan
     -------------

     The Company  believes  that it has the  necessary  funding  capability  for
     fiscal year 1997 to (1)  continue to build its lease  origination  function
     and increase  its lease  origination  volume by  expanding  its field sales
     force and by marketing its ability to customize products that meet customer
     needs,  (2)  continue  to  modestly  increase  the  size of its  own  lease
     portfolio,  (3)  originate/acquire  additional leases for sales to PIFs and
     private  investors and (4) build and  strengthen  its residual  remarketing
     expertise in identified equipment types such as material handling equipment
     by  "vertical  integration"  of  individuals  or companies  with  requisite
     equipment  expertise.  In  addition,  the  Company  continues  to  focus on
     identifying attractive acquisition opportunities.

     The  Company's  operating  results may be affected by the  availability  of
     additional  sources of capital and the related costs of such  capital.  The
     cost of  funds  for many of the  Company's  competitors  is lower  than the
     Company's cost of funds.  Therefore,  the Company has expanded its debt and
     equity placement  capabilities with lower cost of capital sources including
     private investors,  private partnerships, a private income fund with an off
     shore investor and other strategic alliances.  These funding sources should
     provide   funds  at  a  cost   necessary  to   facilitate   the   Company's
     competitiveness in the lease originations market.

13 of 18

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
        of Operations

IV.  "Safe Harbor" Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
     --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     of 1995
     -------

     The statements  contained in this report which are not historical facts may
     be deemed to contain  forward-  looking  statements with respect to events,
     the occurrence of which involve risks and uncertainties, and are subject to
     factors that could cause actual future results to differ both adversely and
     materially  from  currently   anticipated   results,   including,   without
     limitation,  the  level  of lease  originations,  realization  of  residual
     values,  the  availability  and cost of financing  sources and the ultimate
     outcome of any contract  disputes.  Certain  specific risks associated with
     particular  aspects  of the  Company's  business  are  discussed  in detail
     throughout Item 2 of this report and Parts I and II of the 1996 Form 10-K.

                                    14 of 18

CAPITAL ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                     PART II

                                OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1.       Legal Proceedings
              -----------------

              (a) HEMMETER  LITIGATION.  See Note 15 to  Notes  to  Consolidated
                  Financial  Statements  included  in the 1996  Form  10-K for a
                  detailed  discussion of the Hemmeter  Litigation.  On July 29,
                  1996, the Company  received  approximately $2 million from the
                  sale of the  equipment  which had been leased to Grand  Palais
                  Riverboat,  Inc.  (the  "Lessee")  to  the  purchaser  of  the
                  Lessee's riverboat gaming operations.

              (b) NASD  ARBITRATIONS.  CAI Securities  Corporation  ("CAIS"),  a
                  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the  Company  has been named as a
                  respondent in three NASD  arbitrations  initiated by investors
                  in Leastec  Income  Fund V.  Motions to dismiss the claims are
                  pending. If the claims are not dismissed, the Company believes
                  CAIS has meritorious  defenses to the claims;  however,  it is
                  too early to predict the outcome of any arbitrations.

              (c) OTHER.   The  Company  is  also   involved  in  routine  legal
                  proceedings   incidental  to  the  conduct  of  its  business.
                  Management  believes that none of these legal proceedings will
                  have a material  adverse effect on the financial  condition or
                  operations of the Company.

Item 6.       Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K

              a.  Exhibits
                  --------

              b.  Reports on Form 8-K
                  -------------------

                  None

15 of 18

Item No.                               Exhibit Index
- --------                               -------------

10.53         Third  Amendment  to  Credit  Agreement  and  Notes,  dated  as of
              December 3, 1996, by and among Capital  Associates  International,
              Inc.,  borrower,  the Lenders (as defined  therein),  Norwest Bank
              Colorado,  National  Association,  as Agent and Norwest  Equipment
              Finance, Inc., as Collateral Agent.

11A           Computation of Primary Earnings Per Share.  A computation of fully
              diluted earnings per share is not presented as dilution is less
              than 3%.

27            Financial Data Schedule

16 of 18

Exhibit 11A

CAPITAL ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                    COMPUTATION OF PRIMARY EARNINGS PER SHARE

17 of 18

CAPITAL ASSOCIATES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                    SIGNATURE

Pursuant  to the  requirements  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of  1934,  the
registrant  has duly  caused  this  report  to be  signed  on its  behalf by the
undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

CAPITAL ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                        Registrant

Date: January 9, 1997                   By:  /s/John E. Christensen
                                             ----------------------
                                             John E. Christensen,
                                             Senior Vice-President and
                                             Chief Financial Officer

18 of 18

<EX-10.53>
 2
 2Q97.001

THIRD AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT

                  This Third  Amendment,  dated as of November 27, 1996, is made
by and among CAPITAL ASSOCIATES INTERNATIONAL, INC., a Colorado corporation (the
"Borrower")  and each of the financial  institutions  appearing on the signature
pages hereof (herein  collectively  called the "Lenders" and  individually  each
called a "Lender") and NORWEST BANK COLORADO,  NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,  a national
banking association,  in its separate capacity as agent for the Lenders (in such
capacity,  the  "Agent")  and  NORWEST  EQUIPMENT  FINANCE,  INC.,  a  Minnesota
corporation,  in its separate  capacity as collateral  agent for the Lenders (in
such capacity, the "Collateral Agent").

                                    RECITALS

         A.  Norwest Bank  Colorado,  National  Association  (in its capacity as
Lender hereunder "Norwest  Colorado"),  Norwest Equipment Finance,  Inc. (in its
capacity as Lender hereunder, "NEFI") First Interstate Bank of Denver, N.A., now
known as Wells Fargo Bank (Colorado),  N.A. ("Wells Fargo"), First National Bank
of Boston  ("First  Boston") and The Sumitomo  Bank,  Limited  ("Sumitomo")  the
Agent,  the  Collateral  Agent and the  Borrower  have entered into a Credit and
Security  Agreement  dated  as of  November  30,  1994,  as  amended  by a First
Amendment to Credit  Agreement and Notes dated  November 30, 1995, an Assumption
Certificate  dated February 28, 1995 and a Second  Amendment to Credit Agreement
and  Notes  dated  January  31,  1996 ( as  amended,  the  "Credit  Agreement").
Capitalized  terms used in these Recitals have the meanings given to them in the
Credit Agreement unless otherwise specified.

         B.  Pursuant  to  the  Credit  Agreement,  the  Borrower  executed  and
delivered  the  following  promissory  notes:  (i) a Working  Capital Note dated
February 28, 1995 in the original  principal amount of $1,500,000 payable to the
order of Norwest  Colorado,  (ii) a Warehousing  Note dated February 28, 1995 in
the  original  principal  amount of  $4,050,000  payable to the order of Norwest
Colorado,  (iii) a Term Note dated  February 28, 1995 in the original  principal
amount  of  $1,841,666.67  payable  to the  order of  Norwest  Colorado,  (iv) a
Warehousing  Note dated  February 28, 1995 in the original  principal  amount of
$5,550,000 payable to the order of NEFI, (v) a Term Note dated February 28, 1995
in the original principal amount of $1,841,666.67  payable to the order of NEFI,
(vi) a Working  Capital Note dated  February 28, 1995 in the original  principal
amount of  $1,500,000  payable to the order of Wells Fargo,  (vii) a Warehousing
Note dated  February 28, 1995 in the  original  principal  amount of  $9,600,000
payable  to the  order  of  Wells  Fargo,  (viii)  a Term  Note in the  original
principal  amount of $3,683,333.33  payable to the order of Wells Fargo,  (ix) a
Working Capital Note dated February 28, 1996 in the original principal amount of
$1,000,000  payable  to the order of  Sumitomo,  (x) a  Warehousing  Note  dated
February 28, 1996 in the original  principal amount of $6,400,000 payable to the
order of  Sumitomo,  (xi) a Term Note dated  February  28, 1996 in the  original
principal  amount of  $2,455,555.56  payable to the order of  Sumitomo,  (xii) a
Working Capital Note dated February 28, 1995 in the original principal amount of
$1,000,000 payable to the order of First Boston, (xiii) a Warehousing Note dated
February 28, 1995 in the original  principal amount of $6,400,000 payable to the
order of First  Boston  and (xiv) a Term Note  dated  February  28,  1995 in the
original principal amount of $2,455,555.56  payable to the order of First Boston
(collectively, the "Prior Notes").

C. The Borrower has requested,  among other things, that Wells Fargo be
released from its obligations and commitments arising under the Credit Agreement
and that the commitments of Norwest  Colorado,  NEFI,  First Boston and Sumitomo
(herein the  "Continuing  Lenders") be increased,  and that new advances be made
under  such  increased  Commitments,  so as to  satisfy  and  pay  in  full  all
obligations of the Borrower to Wells Fargo, and that certain other amendments be
made to the  Credit  Agreement.  The  Lenders  are  willing to  accommodate  the
Borrower's  requests,  pursuant  to the terms and  conditions  set forth in this
Third Amendment.

            NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the premises and the mutual
covenants and agreements herein contained, it is agreed as follows:

               1.   DEFINED TERMS. Unless otherwise defined herein,  capitalized
terms used in this Third  Amendment  which are  defined in the Credit  Agreement
shall have the same meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.

               2.   Amendment of Credit Agreement Definitions.
                    ------------------------------------------

               (a)  Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to replace or
       add, as the case may be, the following definitions:

                    "Borrowing  Base" means,  the lessor of (a) the  Warehousing
                    Commitment  Amount,  or (b) the sum of (i)  ninety-seven and
                    one half  percent  (97.50%)  of the Lease  Value of Eligible
                    Warehousing  Leases  and (ii)  ninety  percent  (90%) of the
                    Lease Value of Installment Purchase Warehousing Leases.

                    "CAI V" means CAI Equipment  Leasing V Corp., a wholly owned
                    subsidiary of the Parent.

                    "Commitment  Termination  Date"  means the  earliest  of (i)
                    November  30,  1997 or (ii) the date on  which  the  Working
                    Capital  Commitments  and the  Warehousing  Commitments  are
                    terminated  in full or reduced to zero  pursuant  to SECTION
                    5.2(a).

                    "Floating Rate  Warehousing  Advances" means any Warehousing
                    Advance  which  bears  interest  at  a  rate  determined  by
                    reference to the Warehousing Floating Rate.

                    "Guarantors"  means  the  Parent,  CAI  Equipment  Leasing I
                    Corp.,  CAI  Equipment  Leasing  III  Corp.,  CAI  Equipment
                    Leasing IV Corp., CAI Partners Management  Company,  Capital
                    Equipment Corporation, CAI Equipment Leasing V Corp. and CAI
                    Lease Securitization I Corp.

                    "Installment   Purchase   Warehousing   Leases"   means,   a
                    Warehousing   Lease  which  would   constitute  an  Eligible
                    Warehousing   Lease  but  for  the  fact  that  the  Related
                    Equipment  has not yet been  delivered to the Lessee and the
                    Lessee has not yet executed and delivered to the Borrower an
                    appropriate  acceptance  certificate  with  respect  to such
                    Related Equipment,  except that in no event shall any of the
                    following  be deemed  an  Installment  Purchase  Warehousing
                    Lease:

i)  A  Warehousing  Lease  with  respect  to  which  the
                        Borrower  has not entered  into an  enforceable  interim
                        funding agreement (in form and content acceptable to the
                        Agent)  pursuant  to which the  Lessee  has  irrevocably
                        committed and agreed to compensate  the Borrower for the
                        Borrower's costs incurred  (including  imputed interest)
                        to make payments on account of Related  Equipment  prior
                        to  the  Lease  commencement  date  and  to  pay  to the
                        Borrower  the Lease Value of such  Warehousing  Lease if
                        the Related  Equipment  is not  delivered on or prior to
                        120 days after the date of such agreement;

                        (ii) A  Warehousing  Lease  with  respect  to which  the
                        Agent,  in its sole  discretion,  has not  approved  the
                        manufacturer of the Related Equipment;

                        (iii) A  Warehousing  Lease  with  respect  to which the
                        Lessee is not a "1" or "2" rated credit;

                        (iv) A Warehousing  Lease that has not been converted to
                        an Eligible  Warehousing Lease within 120 days after the
                        date  on  which  it   became  an   Installment   Payment
                        Warehousing  Lease for purposes of the  Borrowing  Base;
                        and

                        (v) A Warehousing  Lease if the total Lease Value of all
                        Installment Payment Warehousing Leases, in the aggregate
                        including such Warehousing Lease, exceeds $5 million.

                  "Interest  Period"  means,  relative  to any LIBO Term Loan or
                  LIBO Advance, the period beginning on (and including) the date
                  on  which  such  LIBO  Term  Loan or LIBO  Advance  is made or
                  continued as, or converted  into, a LIBO Term Loan pursuant to
                  the  applicable  provisions  of ARTICLE  II or a LIBO  Advance
                  pursuant to the applicable  provisions of ARTICLE IV and shall
                  end on (but exclude) the day which numerically  corresponds to
                  such date one (1), two (2) or three (3) months  thereafter (or
                  if such month has no  numerically  corresponding  day,  on the
                  last  Business Day of such month),  as the Borrower may select
                  in its relevant notice; provided, however, that:

                        (i)  the  Borrower  shall  not be  permitted  to  select
                        Interest  Periods  to be in  effect at any one time with
                        respect  to  a  Facility  which  have  expiration  dates
                        occurring on more than three (3) different dates;

                        (ii) if an Interest  Period would otherwise end on a day
                        which is not a Business Day, such Interest  Period shall
                        end on the next following Business Day; and

                        (iii)  no  Interest   Period  may  end  later  than  the
                        Commitment Termination Date.

"LIBO  Advance"  means any  portion of a  Warehousing  Advance
                  which bears interest at a rate  determined by reference to the
                  LIBO Rate.

                  "LIBO  Rate" means the annual rate equal to the sum of (i) the
                  rate  obtained  by  dividing  (a) the rate  (rounded up to the
                  nearest  1/16th of one percent)  determined by the Agent to be
                  the average rate at which U.S.  dollar deposits are offered to
                  the Agent by major  banks in the London  interbank  eurodollar
                  market for funds to be made  available on the first day of any
                  Interest  Period  in an  amount  approximately  equal  to  the
                  Agent's  portion of the amount for which a LIBO Rate quotation
                  has been  requested  and maturing at the end of such  Interest
                  Period,  by (b) a  percentage  equal to 100% minus the Federal
                  Reserve System reserve requirement (expressed as a percentage)
                  applicable  to such  deposits and (ii) (A) with respect to the
                  Warehousing  Facility,  two and three quarters percent (2.75%)
                  and (B) with  respect  to the  Term  Facility,  three  percent
                  (3.00%).

                  "Parent Demand Notes" means those certain demand notes payable
                  by the  Parent  to  certain  Subsidiaries  of the  Parent,  as
                  described and identified in SCHEDULE 10.0, together with those
                  certain  demand notes  payable by the Parent (i) to CAI V in a
                  principal amount not to exceed  $1,250,000 and (ii) to CAI-UBK
                  Equipment Corp.
                  in a principal amount not to exceed $50,000.

                  "Residual  Value"  means,  with respect to Related  Equipment,
                  Residual Equipment or Residual Equipment Interests, the lesser
                  of (i) the Borrower's  booked Residual Value of the Borrower's
                  interest in such Equipment as of the scheduled expiration date
                  of the Lease to which such  Equipment is subject or (ii) forty
                  percent (40%) of the original cost of such Equipment.

                  "Term Loan  Commitment  Amount" means Four Million Six Hundred
                  Ninety-Four   Thousand   Four   Hundred   Forty-Four   Dollars
                  ($4,694,444),  being the maximum  aggregate amount of the Term
                  Loan  Commitments  of all  Lenders,  subject to  reduction  in
                  accordance with SECTION 5.2(a).

                  "Third   Amendment  to  Credit   Agreement"  means  the  Third
                  Amendment to Credit  Agreement  dated as of November 27, 1996,
                  by and among the Lenders, the Borrower and the Agent."

                  "Warehousing  Commitment  Amount"'  means  Twenty-Two  Million
                  Eight  Hundred Five Thousand  Five Hundred  Fifty-Six  Dollars
                  ($22,805,556),  being  the  maximum  aggregate  amount  of the
                  Warehousing  Commitments of all Lenders,  subject to reduction
                  in accordance with Section 5.2(a).

                  "Working Capital  Commitment  Amount" means Seven Million Five
                  Hundred  Thousand  Dollars  ($7,500,000),  being  the  maximum
                  aggregate  amount of the Working  Capital  Commitments  of all
                  Lenders,  subject to  reduction  in  accordance  with  SECTION
                  5.2(a).

(b) Section  1.1 of the Credit  Agreement  is further  amended by
          modifying certain definitions as provided below:

                    (i)  The  definition  of  "Eligible  Lease"  is  amended  by
               deleting clause (ix) thereof in its entirety and  substituting in
               place thereof the following:

                         "(ix-A) a Lease  with a Lessee  that is a credit  rated
                    "4"  or  higher,   under  the  Borrower's   credit  approval
                    standards (as described in SECTION 6.5),

                         (ix-B) a Lease with a Lessee that is a "1" or "2" rated
                    credit if the total unpaid  amount due under all Leases with
                    such Lessee, in the aggregate including such Lease,  exceeds
                    $10,000,000;

                         (ix-C) a Lease with a Lessee that is a "3" rated credit
                    if the total  unpaid  amount due under all Leases  with such
                    Lessee, in the aggregate  including such Lease,  exceeds (A)
                    $3,000,000 or (B) $5,000,000 if Borrower has obtained from a
                    creditworthy  Person a  commitment  to  purchase  or provide
                    Non-Recourse Debt to finance within sixty (60) days all such
                    Leases in excess of  $3,000,000  (and such  Leases  are,  in
                    fact,  purchased  or  financed by such Person as provided in
                    such commitment); and"

                    (ii) The definition of "Eligible  Lease" is further  amended
               by adding new  clauses  (xi) and (xii) at the end  thereof  which
               read as follows:

                         "(xi) a Lease covering  Related  Equipment with respect
                    to  which  the  Borrower's  booked  Residual  Value  exceeds
                    forty-five percent (45%); and

                         (xii) a Lease covering Related  Equipment which, in the
                    aggregate,  was  purchased  by the  Borrower  for an initial
                    purchase price of less than $25,000."

                    (iii) The definition of "Eligible Other Investment Asset" is
               hereby amended by deleting in its entirety clause (a) thereof.

                    (iv) The  definition of "Lease  Value" is hereby  amended by
               adding the following to the end thereof:

                         "PROVIDED,  HOWEVER,  that  with  respect  to any Lease
                    which is an  Installment  Purchase  Warehousing  Lease,  the
                    Lease Value shall equal the  aggregate  unreimbursed  amount
                    paid by the  Borrower  to the  manufacturer  of the  Related
                    Equipment in contemplation of the production and delivery of
                    such Related  Equipment to the Lessee under such Installment
                    Purchase Warehousing Lease."

3.  ADJUSTMENT OF COMMITMENTS AND  PERCENTAGES;  RELEASE OF WELLS
FARGO.  Wells Fargo has indicated its desire to be taken out of its  Commitments
by  the  Continuing  Lenders  and to be  relieved  of  any  further  obligations
thereunder,  and the Continuing  Lenders have agreed to accommodate that desire,
subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:

               (a) The  effective  date on which the  Continuing  Lenders  shall
          assume the  outstanding  Commitments  and  Advances  of Wells Fargo is
          December 2, 1996 (the  "Effective  Date"),  subject to compliance with
          the terms and conditions of this Third Amendment.

               (b)  On  the  Effective  Date,  the  respective  Commitments  and
          Percentages of each Continuing  Lender shall be adjusted in accordance
          with the  Commitments  and Percentages set forth on the signature page
          hereof opposite such Continuing Lender's name.

               (c) On the  Effective  Date,  Wells  Fargo  will  assign  to each
          Continuing  Lender a portion of Wells Fargo's  outstanding Term Loans,
          Working Capital Advances and Warehousing Advances, pro rata as between
          Floating  Rate Term  Loans and each  tenor or LIBO Term  Loans,  in an
          amount equal to the product of (i) each Continuing Lender's Percentage
          (as set forth and  described  in this  Third  Amendment)  and (ii) the
          outstanding  balance of each Type of Wells  Fargo's  outstanding  Term
          Loans and Advances,  and each  Continuing  Lender shall  purchase such
          Term Loans and Advances from Wells Fargo.  Thereafter,  all Term Loans
          and Advances so purchased by a Continuing Lender shall be evidenced by
          the Borrower's  Replacement Notes issued to such Continuing Lender, as
          contemplated  below.  All such  purchases by a Continuing  Lender from
          Wells Fargo shall be deemed without recourse or warranty.

               (d) From and after the  Effective  Date,  the Agent shall collect
          and apply all accrued  interest  and fees  payable in respect of Wells
          Fargo's  Commitments  and  Advances  in  accordance  with  the  Credit
          Agreement for the period prior to the  Effective  Date for the benefit
          and account of Wells Fargo.  Each Continuing  Lender shall be entitled
          to receive interest and fees in respect of its  Commitments,  Advances
          and Term  Loans so  purchased  from  Wells  Fargo  from and  after the
          Effective Date.

               (e) On the Effective  Date, the  Commitments of Wells Fargo shall
          be  deemed  canceled  and  terminated,  all  right,  title,  claim and
          interest  of Wells  Fargo in to and  under  the  Credit  Agreement  or
          otherwise  under any Loan Documents  executed in connection  therewith
          shall  terminate  and Wells  Fargo shall be deemed  released  from any
          further obligations and agreements thereunder.

               4. DELIVERY OF REPLACEMENT NOTES. Concurrently with execution and
delivery of this Third  Amendment,  the Borrower  shall issue and deliver to the
Agent new Replacement  Notes dated as of the Effective Date payable to the order
of each  Continuing  Lender in the stated  principal  amount of such  Continuing
Lender's  Term Loan  Commitment,  Working  Capital  Commitment  and  Warehousing
Commitment, respectively (herein the "Replacement Notes"). The Replacement Notes
shall be issued in replacement  for, but not in payment of, the Prior Notes held
by such  Continuing  Lender,  and upon issuance and delivery of the  Replacement
Notes,  the Prior  Notes  shall  have no  further  force or effect  and shall be
returned  to the  Borrower  marked  "Replaced."  The  Agent  agrees  to  deliver
Replacement  Notes to the  appropriate  Continuing  Lender promptly upon receipt
thereof by the Agent.

5.  REFERENCES  TO WELLS  FARGO AS LENDER  INEFFECTIVE.  From and
after the Effective  Date,  the term  "Lenders" as used in the Credit  Agreement
shall be deemed to include only the Continuing Lenders, and Wells Fargo shall no
longer be deemed a party to the Credit  Agreement  or entitled  to any  benefits
thereunder.

               6. LIBO RATE OPTION FOR  WAREHOUSING  ADVANCES.  The Borrower has
requested that, at the Borrower's election,  the Borrower be permitted to select
LIBO Rates for  outstanding  indebtedness  evidenced by  Warehousing  Notes.  To
accommodate  that request,  Article IV of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended
and restated in its entirety to read as follows:

               Section 4.1 COMMITMENTS. Each Lender hereby agrees, severally but
          not  jointly,  on the terms and subject to the  conditions  herein set
          forth, to make Warehousing  Advances to the Borrower from time to time
          during the period from the date hereof to and including the Commitment
          Termination  Date, or the earlier date of  termination in whole of the
          Warehousing Commitments pursuant to SECTIONS 5.2 or 11.2, in an amount
          not to exceed such Lender's  Percentage of each Warehousing  Borrowing
          from time to time requested by the Borrower;  PROVIDED,  HOWEVER, that
          (i) the  aggregate  amount of  Warehousing  Advances  which any Lender
          shall be committed to have outstanding hereunder shall not exceed such
          Lender's  Warehousing  Commitment or such  Lender's  Percentage of the
          Warehousing   Borrowing   Base  and  (ii)  the  aggregate   amount  of
          Warehousing  Advances  which all Lenders  shall be  committed  to have
          outstanding  hereunder shall not exceed the Borrowing Base. Within the
          above limits,  the Borrower may borrow,  prepay in accordance with the
          terms hereof and reborrow in accordance with this ARTICLE IV.

               Section 4.2 VARIOUS TYPES OF FUNDINGs.  The Warehousing  Advances
          shall be funded by the  Lenders as either  Floating  Rate  Warehousing
          Advances  or LIBO  Advances  (each  being  herein  called a "Type"  of
          Warehousing  Advance),  as the  Borrower  shall  specify  pursuant  to
          SECTION 4.3, 4.4 or 4.5.  Floating Rate Warehousing  Advances and LIBO
          Advances  may be  outstanding  at the  same  time.  It is  understood,
          however,  that in the case of LIBO  Advances,  not more than three (3)
          different  Interest  Periods shall be outstanding at any one time, and
          the aggregate  principal  amount of Warehousing  Advances subject to a
          specified Interest Period shall be in an amount equal to $1,000,000 or
          a higher integral multiple of $100,000.

               Section  4.3  PROCEDURES  FOR  BORROWING.  Borrowings  under  the
          Warehousing  Facility shall occur on Wednesday of each week,  provided
          the  Borrower  shall  have given  notice to both  Agents of a proposed
          Warehousing  Borrowing  not later than 12:00  Noon,  Denver,  Colorado
          time,  on a Business Day that is at least two (2) Business  Days prior
          to the proposed date of funding for Floating Rate Warehousing Advances
          and at least three (3)  Business  Days prior to the  proposed  date of
          funding for LIBO  Advances.  Each such notice shall be effective  upon
          receipt  by  the  Agents  and  shall  be in  writing  or  by  telecopy
          transmission  (in either  case,  in the form of EXHIBIT 1 to the Third
          Amendment), shall specify whether the Warehousing Advances are to bear
          interest at a Warehousing  Floating Rate or at one or more LIBO Rates,
          and in the case of a Borrowing that is to bear interest at one or more
          LIBO Rates,  shall specify the Interest Period or Interest  Periods to
          be applicable thereto, and shall be

accompanied  by a properly  completed and duly executed  Borrowing Base
         Certificate.  In order to be included in a Borrowing  Base  Certificate
         provided to the Agents with  respect to a  Warehousing  Borrowing,  the
         original of each Warehousing  Lease therein described must be delivered
         to the Collateral  Agent at its  Administrative  Address not later than
         12:00 Noon,  Denver,  Colorado time, on a Business Day that is at least
         two (2) Business  Days prior to the proposed  date of such  Warehousing
         Borrowing.  Subject to the additional  limitations set forth in SECTION
         4.2  for  LIBO  Advances,   the  aggregate  principal  amount  of  each
         Warehousing  Borrowing  shall be in an amount  not less than  $500,000.
         Promptly  upon  receipt of a notice  under this  SECTION  4.3 the Agent
         shall  advise each Lender of the  proposed  Borrowing  and the proposed
         interest rates to be in effect with respect  thereto and the applicable
         Interest Period. At or before 12:00 Noon, Denver, Colorado time, on the
         requested  Warehousing  Borrowing  date,  each Lender shall provide the
         Agent at the  principal  office of the Agent in Denver,  Colorado  with
         immediately  available funds covering such Lender's  Percentage of such
         Warehousing   Borrowing,   and  subject  to  the  satisfaction  of  the
         conditions  precedent  set forth in  ARTICLE  VII with  respect to such
         Warehousing  Borrowing,  the  Agent  shall  deposit  to the  Borrower's
         account   maintained   with  the  Agent  proceeds  of  the  Warehousing
         Borrowing.

               Section 4.4 CONVERTING FLOATING RATE WAREHOUSING ADVANCES TO LIBO
          ADVANCES;  PROCEDURES. So long as no Default or Event of Default shall
          exist,  the  Borrower  may convert all or any part of any  outstanding
          Floating  Rate  Warehousing  Advance into one or more LIBO Advances by
          giving  notice to the  Agent of such  conversion  not later  than 2:00
          p.m., Denver, Colorado time, on a Business Day which is at least three
          (3) Business Days prior to the date of the requested conversion.  Each
          such notice shall be effective upon receipt by the Agent,  shall be in
          writing or by telecopy  transmission  (in the form of EXHIBIT 2 to the
          Third   Amendment),   shall  specify  the  date  and  amount  of  such
          conversion,  the  total  amount  of  Warehousing  Advances  to  be  so
          converted  and the  Interest  Period  or  Interest  Periods  therefor.
          Promptly  upon  receipt of such  notice,  the Agent shall  advise each
          Lender thereof.  Each  conversion of Warehousing  Advances shall apply
          pro  rata  to all  Floating  Rate  Warehousing  Advances  held  by the
          Lenders, shall commence on a Business Day, and the aggregate amount of
          each such  conversion  of Floating Rate  Warehousing  Advances to LIBO
          Advances  shall  be in an  amount  equal  to  $1,000,000  or a  higher
          integral multiple of $100,000.

               Section 4.5 PROCEDURES AT END OF AN INTEREST  PERIOD.  Unless the
          Borrower  requests a new LIBO Rate in accordance  with the  procedures
          set forth below,  each Lender shall  automatically and without request
          by  the  Borrower,  convert  each  LIBO  Advance  to a  Floating  Rate
          Warehousing  Advance on the last day of the relevant  Interest Period.
          So long as no Default or Event of Default  shall  exist,  the Borrower
          may cause all or any part of any outstanding  LIBO Advance to continue
          to bear  interest  at a LIBO  Rate  after  the  end of the  applicable
          Interest  Period  by  notifying  the Agent no later  than  2:00  p.m.,
          Denver,  Colorado  time, on a Business Day which is at least three (3)
          Business Days prior to the first day of the new Interest Period.  Each
          such notice  shall be in writing or by telecopy  transmission  (in the
          form of EXHIBIT 3 to the Third  Amendment),  shall be  effective  when
          received  by  the  Agent,  and  shall  specify  the  first  day of the
          applicable Interest Period, the amount of the expiring LIBO Advance to
          be continued and the Interest Period  therefor.  Promptly upon receipt
          of such notice,  the Agent shall advise each Lender thereof.  Each new
          Interest Period shall begin on a Business Day and the aggregate amount
          of the Warehousing  Advances  bearing the new LIBO Rate shall be in an
          amount equal to $1,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $100,000.

Section 4.6 SETTING AND NOTICE OF RATES. The applicable LIBO Rate
          for each  Interest  Period shall be determined by the Agent and notice
          thereof (which may be by telephone) shall be given by the Agent to the
          Borrower and each Lender.  Each such  determination  of the applicable
          LIBO Rate shall be conclusive and binding upon the parties hereto,  in
          the absence of demonstrable  error. The Agent, upon written request of
          the  Borrower or any  Lender,  shall  deliver to the  Borrower or such
          Lender a  statement  showing  the  computations  used by the  Agent in
          determining the applicable LIBO Rate hereunder.

               Section  4.7  PRO  RATA  TREATMENT.   All  Warehousing  Advances,
          conversions  and  repayments  shall be effected  so that after  giving
          effect thereto all Types of Warehousing  Advances  outstanding and all
          applicable  Interest  Periods  shall be pro  rata  among  the  Lenders
          according to their respective Percentages.

               Section 4.8 INTEREST ON WAREHOUSING ADVANCES. The Borrower hereby
          agrees  to pay  interest  on  the  unpaid  principal  amount  of  each
          Warehousing  Advance  for  the  period  commencing  on the  date  such
          Warehousing  Advance  is funded  by a Lender  until  such  Warehousing
          Advance is paid in full, in accordance with the following:

                    (a) FLOATING RATE WAREHOUSING  ADVANCES.  Subject to SECTION
               4.8(c),  while any portion of a Warehousing Advance is a Floating
               Rate  Warehousing  Advance,  the  outstanding  principal  balance
               thereof  shall bear interest at an annual rate at all times equal
               to the Warehousing Advance Floating Rate.

                    (b) LIBO RATE ADVANCES. Subject to SECTION 4.8(c), while any
               portion  of  a  Warehousing  Advance  is  a  LIBO  Advance,   the
               outstanding principal balance thereof shall bear interest for the
               applicable  Interest  Period at an annual  rate equal to the LIBO
               Rate  established with respect to such LIBO Advance in accordance
               with SECTION 4.3, 4.4 or 4.5 hereof.

                    (c) DEFAULT RATE.  From and after the occurrence of an Event
               of Default and continuing  thereafter until such Event of Default
               shall be  remedied to the written  satisfaction  of the  Required
               Lenders,  the outstanding  principal  balance of each Warehousing
               Advance shall bear interest,  until paid in full, at a rate equal
               to (i) the interest rate otherwise in effect with respect to such
               Warehousing Advance and (ii) four percent (4%).

               Section   4.9.   OBLIGATION   TO   REPAY   WAREHOUSING   ADVANCE;
          REPRESENTATIONS.   The  Borrower  shall  be  obligated  to  repay  all
          Warehousing  Advances at the  applicable  interest  rates  established
          under this  ARTICLE  IV  notwithstanding  the  failure of the Agent to
          receive any written request therefor or written  confirmation  thereof
          and  notwithstanding  the fact that the person requesting the same was
          not  in  fact  authorized  to do so.  Any  request  for a  Warehousing
          Borrowing under this ARTICLE IV, whether written, telephonic, telecopy
          or otherwise,  shall be deemed to be a representation  by the Borrower
          that the conditions set forth in SECTION 7.2 have been satisfied as of
          the time of the request.

Section 4.10 WAREHOUSING NOTES. All Warehousing  Advances made by
          each Lender  shall be  evidenced  by and  repayable  with  interest in
          accordance  with a  Warehousing  Note of the  Borrower  payable to the
          order of such Lender in the amount of such Lender's  Warehousing  Loan
          Commitment. The unpaid principal amount of each Warehousing Note shall
          be  payable as  provided  therein  and  herein and upon  demand by the
          Lenders pursuant to SECTION 11.2 hereof.

               Section  4.11  INTEREST  DUE  DATES.  Accrued  interest  on  each
          Warehousing  Advance  shall be  payable  in arrears on the last day of
          each month and at maturity.

               Section  4.12 USE OF PROCEEDS.  The proceeds of each  Warehousing
          Borrowing  shall be used by the  Borrower for purposes of acquiring or
          funding  leases  for  resale or as  temporary  financing  pending  the
          securing of permanent financing for any such Lease.

               Section  4.13  INCREASED   COSTS;   CAPITAL   ADEQUACY;   FUNDING
          EXCEPTIONS.  With  respect  to all  LIBO  Advances  from  time to time
          outstanding hereunder, the Borrower hereby covenants and agrees that:

                    (a) INCREASED COSTS ON LIBO ADVANCES. If Regulation D of the
               Board of Governors of the Federal  Reserve  System,  or after the
               date of this Agreement,  the adoption of any applicable law, rule
               or  regulation,  or any change in any existing law, or any change
               in  the   interpretation   or   administration   thereof  by  any
               governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged
               with the interpretation or administration  thereof, or compliance
               by any Lender  with any  request  or  directive  (whether  or not
               having the force of law) of any such  authority,  central bank or
               comparable agency, shall:

                    (i)  subject  any  Lender  to or  cause  the  withdrawal  or
                    termination of any exemption  previously  granted any Lender
                    with respect to, any tax,  duty or other charge with respect
                    to  its  LIBO  Advances  or  its  obligation  to  make  LIBO
                    Advances,  or shall change the basis of taxation of payments
                    to any Lender of the  principal  of or  interest  under this
                    Agreement in respect of its LIBO Advances or its  obligation
                    to make LIBO Advances (except for changes in the rate of tax
                    on the  overall  net  income of such  Lender  imposed by the
                    jurisdictions  in which such  Lender's  principal  executive
                    office is located); or

                    (ii)  impose,   modify  or  deem   applicable   any  reserve
                    (including,  without limitation,  any reserve imposed by the
                    Board  of  Governors  of the  Federal  Reserve  System,  but
                    excluding  any  reserve  included  in the  determination  of
                    interest  rates  pursuant to  SECTION),  special  deposit or
                    similar  requirement against assets of, deposits with or for
                    the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender; or

                    (iii) impose on any Lender any other condition affecting its
                    making,  maintaining  or funding of its LIBO Advances or its
                    obligation to make LIBO Advances;

and the result of any of the  foregoing  is to increase  the
                    cost to such  Lender  of  making  or  maintaining  any  LIBO
                    Advance,  or to reduce  the  amount of any sum  received  or
                    receivable by such Lender under this  Agreement or under its
                    Warehousing  Note,  then the affected Lender will notify the
                    Borrower  and the Agent and within  fifteen  (15) days after
                    demand by such Lender (which demand shall be  accompanied by
                    a  statement  setting  forth the basis of such  demand)  the
                    Borrower  shall pay directly to such Lender such  additional
                    amount or amounts as will  compensate  such  Lender for such
                    increased cost or such reduction.  Each Lender will promptly
                    notify the  Borrower  and the Agent of any event of which it
                    has knowledge,  occurring after the date hereof,  which will
                    entitle such Lender to compensation pursuant to this SECTION
                    4.13. If the Borrower receives notice from any Lender of any
                    event  which  will  entitle  such  Lender  to   compensation
                    pursuant to this SECTION 4.13, the Borrower,  at its option,
                    may prepay any then  outstanding LIBO Advances or notify the
                    Agent  (which  shall  promptly  notify each Lender) that any
                    pending  request for a LIBO Advances shall be deemed to be a
                    request for a Floating  Rate  Warehousing  Advance,  in each
                    case  without  payment  of  any  additional  funding  losses
                    pursuant to the provisions of SECTION 4.14.

                         (b) BASIS FOR  DETERMINING  INTEREST RATE INADEQUATE OR
                    UNFAIR. If with respect to any Interest Period:

                         (i) the Agent  determines that deposits in U.S. dollars
                         (in the  applicable  amounts),  as the case may be, are
                         not being offered to the Agent in the London  interbank
                         eurodollar market for such Interest Period; or

                         (ii)   the   Agent    otherwise    determines    (which
                         determination  shall be binding and  conclusive  on all
                         parties) that by reason of circumstances  affecting the
                         London   interbank   eurodollar   market  adequate  and
                         reasonable  means do not  exist  for  ascertaining  the
                         applicable LIBO Rate; or

                         (iii) the  Required  Lenders  advise the Agent that the
                         LIBO  Rate  as   determined   by  the  Agent  will  not
                         adequately  and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders
                         of  maintaining  or  funding  a LIBO  Advance  for such
                         Interest Period,  or that the making or funding of LIBO
                         Advances  has  become  impracticable  as a result of an
                         event  occurring after the date of this Agreement which
                         in the opinion of such Lenders  materially affects such
                         LIBO Advances,

                         THEN the  Agent  shall  promptly  notify  the  affected
                    parties and (A) in the event of any occurrence  described in
                    the foregoing  clause (i) the Borrower shall enter into good
                    faith  negotiations  with each  affected  Lender in order to
                    determine an alternate method to determine the LIBO Rate for
                    such Lender,  and during the  pendency of such  negotiations
                    with any Lender, such Lender shall be under no obligation to
                    make LIBO  Advances,  and (B) in the event of any occurrence
                    described in the  foregoing  clauses  (ii) or (iii),  for so
                    long as such circumstances  shall continue,  no Lender shall
                    be under any obligation to make LIBO Advances.

(c)  ILLEGALITY.  In  the  event  that  any  change  in
                    (including  the  adoption  of any  new)  applicable  laws or
                    regulations,   or  any  change  in  the   interpretation  of
                    applicable   laws  or   regulations   by  any   governmental
                    authority,  central  bank,  comparable  agency  or any other
                    regulatory    body   charged   with   the    interpretation,
                    implementation or administration  thereof,  or compliance by
                    any Lender  with any  request or  directive  (whether or not
                    having  the  force  of law) of any such  authority,  central
                    bank,  comparable  agency or other regulatory  body,  should
                    make it (or, in the good faith  judgment  of the  applicable
                    Lender,  shall raise a substantial question as to whether it
                    is unlawful for a Lender (any such Lender  herein  called an
                    "Affected  Lender") to make,  maintain or fund LIBO Advances
                    then (i) the Affected  Lender shall promptly  notify each of
                    the  other  parties  hereto,  (ii)  the  obligation  of  the
                    Affected  Lender  to make,  maintain  or  convert  into LIBO
                    Advances  shall,  upon the  effectiveness  of such event, be
                    suspended for the duration of such  unlawfulness,  and (iii)
                    for the  duration  of such  unlawfulness,  any notice by the
                    Borrower  pursuant to SECTIONS  4.3,  4.4 or 4.5  requesting
                    Lenders to make or convert into LIBO Advances  shall,  as to
                    the Affected Lender, be construed as a request to make or to
                    continue  making Floating Rate  Warehousing  Advances in the
                    amount of such  Affected  Lender's  Percentage  of the total
                    amount of LIBO Advances requested.

                         Section 4.14 FUNDING  LOSSES.  With respect to all LIBO
                    Advances, the Borrower hereby agrees that upon demand by any
                    Lender  (which  demand shall be  accompanied  by a statement
                    setting forth the basis for the  calculations  of the amount
                    being  claimed)  the  Borrower  will  indemnify  such Lender
                    against  any loss or  expense  which  such  Lender  may have
                    sustained or incurred  (including,  without limitation,  any
                    net loss or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or
                    reemployment  of deposits  or other  funds  acquired by such
                    Lender to fund or maintain  LIBO  Advances),  as  reasonably
                    determined  by  such  Lender,  (i) as a  consequence  of any
                    failure by the  Borrower to make any payment when due of any
                    amount due hereunder in connection  with any LIBO  Advances,
                    or (ii) due to any  failure  of the  Borrower  to  borrow or
                    convert any LIBO Advances on a date specified  therefor in a
                    notice  thereof or (iii) due to any  payment  or  prepayment
                    (including  any  prepayment  pursuant to SECTIONS  5.2(b) or
                    5.2(c),  but  excluding any  prepayment  pursuant to SECTION
                    4.13) of any LIBO Advances on a date other than the last day
                    of the  applicable  Interest  Period for such LIBO Advances.
                    For  this  purpose,  all  notices  of  LIBO  Rate  elections
                    pursuant   to  this   ARTICLE  IV  shall  be  deemed  to  be
                    irrevocable.

                         Section  4.15 RIGHT OF LENDERS  TO FUND  THROUGH  OTHER
                    OFFICES.  Each  Lender,  if it so elects,  may  fulfill  its
                    Commitment  as to any LIBO  Advance  by  causing  a  foreign
                    branch  or  affiliate  of  such  Lender  to make  such  LIBO
                    Advance;  PROVIDED, that in such event the obligation to the
                    Borrower to repay such LIBO Advance shall nevertheless be to
                    such Lender and shall be deemed held by such Lender,  to the
                    extent of such LIBO Advance,  for the account of such branch
                    or affiliate.

Section  4.16  DISCRETION  OF  LENDERS  AS TO MANNER OF
                    FUNDING.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to
                    the  contrary,  each  Lender  shall be  entitled to fund and
                    maintain  its funding of all or any part of its  Warehousing
                    Advances  in any manner it deems fit,  it being  understood,
                    however,   that   for  the   purposes   of  this   Agreement
                    (specifically  including,  without limitation,  SECTION 4.14
                    hereof)  all  determinations  hereunder  shall be made as if
                    such Lender had  actually  funded and  maintained  each LIBO
                    Advance  during each  Interest  Period for such LIBO Advance
                    through  the   purchase   of  deposits   having  a  maturity
                    corresponding   to  such  Interest  Period  and  bearing  an
                    interest  rate equal to the  appropriate  LIBO Rate for such
                    Interest Period.

                         Section 4.17 CONCLUSIVENESS OF STATEMENTS;  SURVIVAL OF
                    PROVISIONS.  Determinations  and  statements  of any  Lender
                    pursuant to SECTION 4.13 or 4.14 shall be conclusive  absent
                    demonstrable error. Each Lender may use reasonable averaging
                    and attribution methods in determining compensation pursuant
                    to such Sections and the  provisions of such Sections  shall
                    survive termination of this Agreement.

                         7. NON-RESIDUAL COLLATERAL COVERAGE RATIO. Section 9.14
of the Credit Agreement, providing for a Non-Residual Collateral Coverage Ratio,
is hereby deleted.

                         8. EQUIPMENT   CLASSIFICATION   CONCENTRATION    LIMIT.
SECTION 9.15 of the Credit  Agreement is hereby  amended in its entirety to read
as follows:

                            "The  Borrower  will at no time  permit the ratio of
                         (a)  the  adjusted  net  book  value  of  any  type  of
                         Equipment  to (b) the adjusted net book value of all of
                         the Borrower's Equipment, expressed as a percentage, to
                         be greater  than the  applicable  percentage  set forth
                         opposite  such  Equipment   type  in  SCHEDULE   9.15-A
                         attached to the Third Amendment."

                         9. INDEBTEDNESS. Subsection (b) of SECTION 10.2, of the
Credit Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:

                         "(b)     Indebtedness evidenced by Parent Demand
                         Notes and other indebtedness in existence on the
                         date hereof and listed in SCHEDULE 10.0; and"

                         10. INVESTMENTS.  Subsection (a) of SECTION 10.4 of the
Credit Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:

                         "(a)     investments in Subsidiaries of the
                         Borrower or the Parent as shown and described
                         in SCHEDULE 10.0-A attached to the Third Amendment."

11. NO OTHER CHANGES.  Except as explicitly  amended by
this Third  Amendment,  all terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement and the
other Loan  Documents  shall  remain in full force and  effect.  Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other instrument executed by
the Borrower, the Guarantors, any Lender, the Agent or the Collateral Agent, the
agreements,  covenants and provisions contained herein shall constitute the only
evidence of the Lenders'  agreement with respect to  modification  of any of the
Loan Documents.  The Borrower acknowledges and agrees that no express or implied
consent to any additional or further  amendments or  modifications of any of the
Loan  Documents  shall be inferred or implied by the  execution  and delivery of
this Third  Amendment.  Further,  execution  of this Third  Amendment  shall not
constitute a waiver (either  express or implied) of any requirement set forth in
the Credit Agreement for the express written approval of the Lenders or Required
Lenders, as the case may be, for any other or future modifications or amendments
of the Loan Documents,  and no such further approval (either express or implied)
has been given with respect thereto as of the date of this Third Amendment.

                         12. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. This Third Amendment shall be
effective when the Agent has received:

                         (a) an original of this Third Amendment,  duly executed
                    on behalf of the  Borrower,  each Lender,  the Agent and the
                    Collateral Agent;

                         (b)  the  Replacement   Notes,  duly  executed  by  the
                    Borrower;

                         (c) a Guaranty  Agreement  of CAI V, duly  executed  on
                    behalf of CAI V,  guaranteeing  the due and  prompt  payment
                    when due of all Obligations;

                         (d) a First Amendment to Pledge and Security  Agreement
                    of Parent,  together with original stock  certificates  (and
                    stock powers  signed in blank)  representing  all issued and
                    outstanding Common Stock of CAI V;

                         (e) the  Acknowledgment and Agreement of Guarantors set
                    forth at the end of this Third  Amendment,  duly executed by
                    each Guarantor;

                         (f) a Pledge and Security Agreement,  properly executed
                    on  behalf  of  CAI  V,  pledging  its  general  partnership
                    interests in all public  income fund  partnerships  owned by
                    it, together with copies of the partnership  agreements with
                    respect  thereto and a duly executed  Confirmation of Pledge
                    letter and a Notification of Pledge letter, each in form and
                    content acceptable to the Agent;

                         (g) a  financing  statement  naming CAI V as debtor and
                    describing the collateral covered by the Pledge and Security
                    Agreement  described  in clause  (f)  above,  together  with
                    appropriate  UCC  searches  showing that no State or Federal
                    tax liens  have been  filed and remain in effect and that no
                    financing  statements or other notifications or filings have
                    been filed and remain in effect against CAI V;

(h)  a  Certificate   of  the  Secretary  or  Assistant
                    Secretary  of  the  Borrower   certifying   as  to  (i)  the
                    resolutions  of the  board  of  directors  of  the  Borrower
                    approving   the   execution   and  delivery  of  this  Third
                    Amendment,  (ii) the fact that the Articles of Incorporation
                    and  Bylaws  of  the  Borrower,  which  were  certified  and
                    delivered  to  the  Lender   pursuant  to  the   secretary's
                    certificate  executed by the Borrower's  Secretary  prior to
                    and in  contemplation  of the  execution and delivery of the
                    Credit Agreement  continue in full force and effect and have
                    not been amended or otherwise modified,  except as disclosed
                    to the Lenders,  and (iii)  certifying that the officers and
                    agents  of the  Borrower  who  have  been  certified  to the
                    Lender,  pursuant to such prior  secretary's  certificate as
                    being  authorized  to  sign  and  to act  on  behalf  of the
                    Borrower  continue to be so  authorized or setting forth the
                    sample  signatures of each of the officers and agents of the
                    Borrower  authorized  to  execute  and  deliver  this  Third
                    Amendment   and  all   other   documents,   agreements   and
                    certificates on behalf of the Borrower;

                         (i) Certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary
                    of CAI V which shall  certify the names of officers of CAI V
                    authorized  to sign CAI V's Guaranty and Pledge and Security
                    Agreement as described  above,  and the other  documents and
                    certificates to be delivered hereunder, together with sample
                    signatures of such officers;

                         (j) a certified copy of the resolutions of the board of
                    directors of CAI V  evidencing  approval of its Guaranty and
                    the  execution  and  delivery  of its  Pledge  and  Security
                    Agreement as  contemplated  herein,  together with copies of
                    its Articles of  Incorporation,  Bylaws and  Certificate  of
                    Good Standing;

                         (k) the  Warehousing  Agency Fee described in paragraph
                    17 hereof; and

                         (l) such  other  matters  as the Agent  may  reasonably
                    require with respect to the matters set forth herein.

                         13. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. The Borrower hereby
represents and warrants to the Lenders as follows:

                         (a) The Borrower has all requisite  power and authority
                    to execute  this Third  Amendment  and to perform all of its
                    obligations  hereunder,  and this Third  Amendment  has been
                    duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and  constitutes
                    the legal,  valid and binding  obligation  of the  Borrower,
                    enforceable  in  accordance  with its  terms,  except to the
                    extent  the  enforcement  thereof  may  be  limited  by  any
                    applicable  bankruptcy,  insolvency  or similar  laws now or
                    hereafter in effect affecting creditors' rights generally.

                         (b) The  execution,  delivery  and  performance  by the
                    Borrower of this Third  Amendment have been duly  authorized
                    by all necessary corporate action and do not (i) require any
                    authorization,  consent  or  approval  by  any  governmental
                    department,    commission,    board,   bureau,   agency   or
                    instrumentality,  domestic  or  foreign,  (ii)  violate  any
                    provision of any law,  rule or  regulation  or of any order,
                    writ,  injunction  or decree  presently  in  effect,  having
                    applicability   to  the   Borrower,   or  the   articles  of
                    incorporation or by-laws of the Borrower, or (iii) result in
                    a breach of or  constitute a default  under any indenture or
                    loan or credit  agreement or any other  agreement,  lease or
                    instrument  to which the  Borrower is a party or by which it
                    or its properties may be bound or affected.

(c) All of the representations and warranties contained
                    in the Credit  Agreement  are  correct on and as of the date
                    hereof as though made on and as of such date,  except to the
                    extent  that  such  representations  and  warranties  relate
                    solely to an earlier date; provided,  however, that attached
                    hereto are  replacement  Schedules  8.4  (Revised)  and 8.10
                    (Revised)   for   purposes  of  such   representations   and
                    warranties.

                         14. REFERENCES.  All references in the Credit Agreement
to "this  Agreement" shall be deemed to refer to the Credit Agreement as amended
by this Third Amendment and any and all references in the Security  Documents or
any other Loan Documents to the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the
Credit Agreement as amended by this Third Amendment.

                         15. NO WAIVER.  The  execution of this Third  Amendment
and  acceptance  of any  documents  related  hereto  shall not be deemed to be a
waiver of any Default or Event of Default under the Credit  Agreement or breach,
default or event of default under any Security  Document or other  document held
by the Lender, whether or not known to the Lender and whether or not existing on
the date of this Third Amendment.

                         16.  RELEASE.  The  Borrower,  and  each  Guarantor  by
signing the  Acknowledgment  and Agreement of Guarantor set forth below,  hereby
absolutely and  unconditionally  release and forever discharge each Lender,  the
Agent  and  the  Collateral   Agent  and  any  and  all   participants,   parent
corporations,   subsidiary  corporations,   affiliated  corporations,  insurers,
indemnitors,  successors and assigns  thereof,  together with all of the present
and former  directors,  officers,  agents and employees of any of the foregoing,
from any and all  claims,  demands  or causes  of action of any kind,  nature or
description,  whether arising in law or equity or upon contract or tort or under
any state or federal law or otherwise,  which the Borrower or such Guarantor has
had,  now has or has made claim to have against any such person for or by reason
of any  act,  omission,  matter,  cause  or thing  whatsoever  arising  from the
beginning of time to and  including  the date of this Third  Amendment,  whether
such  claims,  demands and causes of action are matured or unmatured or known or
unknown.

                         17. COSTS AND EXPENSES.  The Borrower hereby  reaffirms
its agreement under the Credit Agreement to pay or reimburse the Agent on demand
for all costs and expenses  incurred by the Agent in connection  with the Credit
Agreement,  the Security Documents and all other documents contemplated thereby,
including  without  limitation all reasonable  fees and  disbursements  of legal
counsel.  Without  limiting  the  generality  of  the  foregoing,  the  Borrower
specifically  agrees to pay all fees and  disbursements  of counsel to the Agent
for the services performed by such counsel in connection with the preparation of
this Third Amendment and the documents and instruments  incidental  hereto.  The
Borrower  hereby  agrees that the Agent may, at any time or from time to time in
its sole discretion and without further  authorization  by the Borrower,  make a
loan to the Borrower  under the Credit  Agreement,  or apply the proceeds of any
loan,  for the  purpose  of  paying  any such  fees,  disbursements,  costs  and
expenses.

                         18.  AGENCY  FEE.  The  Borrower  agrees  to pay to the
Agent,  for the account of both Agents,  a  Warehousing  agency fee of $100,000,
payable  upon  execution of this Third  Amendment.  The  Warehousing  agency fee
described above shall be deemed fully earned by the Agent upon execution of this
Third Amendment.

19.   MISCELLANEOUS.   This  Third  Amendment  and  the
Acknowledgment  and  Agreement  of  Guarantors  may be executed in any number of
counterparts,  each of which when so executed and  delivered  shall be deemed an
original and all of which counterparts, taken together, shall constitute one and
the same instrument.

                            [SIGNATURE PAGES FOLLOW]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties hereto have caused this Third
Amendment to Credit  Agreement to be duly  executed as of the date first written
above.

CAPITAL ASSOCIATES
                                              INTERNATIONAL, INC.

                                             By /s/John E. Christensen
                                                --------------------------------
                                                John E. Christensen
                                                Its Senior Vice President

Term Loan Commitment:        $782,408.90     NORWEST BANK COLORADO,
Term Loan Percentage:        16.6667%          NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
Working Capital Commitment:  $2,500,000.00     as Agent and Continuing Lender
Working Capital Percentage:  33.3333%
Warehousing Commitment:      $2,967,591.10
Warehousing Percentage:      13.01258%       By /s/Sandra A. Sauer
                                                --------------------------------
                                                Sandra A. Sauer
                                                Its Vice President

Term Loan Commitment:        $782,408.90     NORWEST EQUIPMENT FINANCE, INC.
Term Loan Percentage:        16.6667%         as Collateral Agent and Continuing
Working Capital Commitment:  $0               Lender
Working Capital Percentage:  0%
Warehousing Commitment:      $5,467,591.10
Warehousing Percentage:      23.97482%       By /s/Judy I. VanOsdel
                                                --------------------------------
                                                Judy I. VanOsdel
                                                Its Vice President

Term Loan Commitment:        $1,564,813.10   THE SUMITOMO BANK, LIMITED,
Term Loan Percentage:        33.3333%          as Continuing Lender
Working Capital Commitment:  $2,500,000.00
Working Capital Percentage:  33.3333%
Warehousing Commitment:      $5,935,186.90
Warehousing Percentage:      26.0252%        By /s/Judith M. Bresnen
                                                --------------------------------
                                                Its Vice President

Term Loan Commitment:        $1,564,813.10   FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON,
Term Loan Percentage:        33.3333%          as Continuing Lender
Working Capital Commitment:  $2,500,000.00
Working Capital Percentage:  33.3333%
Warehousing Commitment:      $8,435,186.90
Warehousing Percentage:       36.9874%       By /s/Deirdre Holland Cobery
                                                --------------------------------
                                                Its Vice President

Term Loan Commitment:        $0              WELLS FARGO BANK (Colorado), N.A.,
Term Loan Percentage:        0%                as Lender
Working Capital Commitment:  $0
Working Capital Percentage:  0%
Warehousing Commitment:      $0
Warehousing Percentage:      0%              By /s/Mary Holm
                                                --------------------------------
                                                Its Vice President

</EX-10.53>

<EX-27>
 3
 2Q97.001

</EX-27>

