<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>19970331_10-Q_edgar_data_860518_0001025894-97-000035_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>103069</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>84013</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>269</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>5</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>1</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001025894-97-000035.hdr.sgml : 19970401
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001025894-97-000035
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		2
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19970212
FILED AS OF DATE:		19970331
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ITEX CORPORATION
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000860518
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-BUSINESS SERVICES, NEC [7389]
		IRS NUMBER:				930922994
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NV
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-18275
		FILM NUMBER:		97570109

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10300 S W GREENBURG RD SUITE 370
		CITY:			PORTLAND
		STATE:			OR
		ZIP:			97223
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5032444673

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ITEX BARTER SYSTEMS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19600201

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 RZMxY36Lmra/H+pT9rp33yFM2WZpCicVtwNCVC/QsUO/DbjYxMerG2eI0jVs1mBm
 /jW2UUgHzvNuog1DTyJTfA==

 0001025894-97-000035.txt : 19970401

10-Q
 1

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-Q

              (X) QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         For the Quarterly Period Ended

                                February 12, 1997

                         Commission File Number 0-18275

                                ITEX CORPORATION

             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

Nevada                                         93-0922994
- -------------------------------                    ----------------------------
State (or other jurisdiction of                    (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization)                               Identification No.)

10300 SW Greenburg Road, Suite 370, Portland, Oregon 97223
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           (Address of principal executive offices including zip code)

                                 (503) 244-4673
                         -------------------------------
               (Registrant's telephone number including area code)

Indicate by check whether the Registrant:  (1) filed all reports  required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the
past 12 months (or for such shorter  period that the  Registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.

                           Yes  X                               No
                              -----                           -----

          Number of Shares of Common Stock, $0.01 Par Value Outstanding
                               at March 26, 1997:

                                    6,884,000

                       (This Form 10-Q includes 29 pages)

ITEX CORPORATION

                                    FORM 10-Q
                         For the Quarterly Period Ended
                                February 12, 1997

                                      INDEX

Page
                                                                     --------

PART I.           FINANCIAL INFORMATION

  ITEM 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS AT FEBRUARY 12, 1997 
     AND JANUARY 15, 1996                                                3

     CONSOLIDATED  STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE TWELVE AND 
     TWENTY-EIGHT WEEK PERIODS  ENDED  FEBRUARY 12, 1997 AND FOR 
     THE TWELVE AND  TWENTY-FOUR  WEEK PERIODS ENDED JANUARY 15, 
     1996                                                                4

     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE TWENTY-
     EIGHT WEEK PERIOD ENDED FEBRUARY 12, 1997 AND FOR THE 
     TWENTY-FOUR WEEK PERIOD ENDED JANUARY 15, 1996                      5

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                          6

  ITEM 2.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
           FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS                13

PART II.   OTHER INFORMATION                                            25

2
 
PART I.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
ITEM 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

3

4

5
 
                                ITEX CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 - UNAUDITED INTERIM INFORMATION

ITEX Corporation (the "Company") and its wholly-owned  subsidiaries  prepare and
report financial  results using a fiscal year ending July 31. The Company closes
its books at the end of 13  "accounting  cycles,"  which  consist  of four weeks
each. The Company reports quarterly  results using three quarters  consisting of
three of the four-week accounting cycles each and one quarter consisting of four
of the four-week accounting cycles. In prior years, the Company had reported the
four  cycle,  or  16-week  quarter as the fourth  quarter of each  fiscal  year.
Commencing  with the first quarter of the fiscal year ending July 31, 1997,  the
Company  reports the four cycle, or 16-week quarter as the first quarter of each
fiscal year. This practice is being  implemented to provide better management of
Company  operations and to more evenly space the periodic reporting of financial
information to the public. Accordingly, the new dates for the fiscal ends of the
Company's  quarters  for public  reporting  will be as follows:  first  quarter,
November 20; second quarter,  February 12; third quarter, May 7; fourth quarter,
July 31.

This Form 10-Q includes the consolidated financial statements of the Company and
its wholly-owned  subsidiaries.  The  consolidated  balance sheet as of July 31,
1996 is excerpted from the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal
year then ended. The Company's  consolidated  financial  statements  included in
this Form 10-Q for the interim  periods  ended January 15, 1996 and February 12,
1997  include  all normal  recurring  adjustments  which,  in the opinion of the
Company,  are  necessary  for a fair  statement  of the  results of  operations,
financial  position,  and  cash  flows  as of the  dates  and  for  the  periods
presented.  The Company's operating results for the twelve and twenty-eight week
periods ended  February 12, 1997 are not  necessarily  indicative of the results
that may be expected for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1997.

The Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in the Company's July
31, 1996 Annual Report on Form 10-K/A should be read in  conjunction  with these
consolidated financial statements.

NOTE 2 - DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

The  Company is engaged in domestic  and  international  operations  in both the
retail  barter  exchange and  corporate  barter areas of the  commercial  barter
industry.   The  Company  administers  the  ITEX  Retail  Barter  Exchange  (the
Exchange),  which is an association  of business  owners and  professionals  who
trade  goods and  services  with other  members  of the  Exchange.  The  Company
promotes the  maximization  of trade through  barter  transactions  that benefit
members within the Exchange by: (a)  generating  incremental  new business,  (b)
conserving  members'  cash by their  ability to spend ITEX  trade  dollars,  (c)
serving  effectively  as an alternative  source of financing,  (d) enhancing the
lifestyles  of  members,  and (e)  enabling  the sale of slow  moving  or excess
inventories at better values than can be realized in cash markets.

                                       6
 
As  such,  the  Company  acts  as  a  third-party   record-keeper   of  members'
transactions and balances,  which are denominated in ITEX trade dollars. An ITEX
trade dollar is an  accounting  unit used by the Exchange to record the value of
trades as determined by the buying and selling  parties in barter  transactions.
ITEX trade dollars denote the right to receive goods or services  available from
other  Exchange  members or the obligation to provide goods or services to other
Exchange members. The Company does not redeem trade dollars for cash. ITEX trade
dollars may be used only in the manner and for the purpose set forth in the ITEX
Trading Rules that govern the Exchange. ITEX trade dollars are not legal tender,
securities, or commodities.

Members of the Exchange pay cash and ITEX trade dollar fees and  commissions  to
the  Company.  The Company  typically  receives a cash  commission  of 5% on the
purchases  and  sales  made  by  members  of  the   Exchange.   In  addition  to
administering the activities and record-keeping of the Exchange, the Company, as
a member of the  Exchange,  trades as a principal  party in barter  transactions
with other  members.  The Company  also  engages as a  principal  party in trade
transactions   in  the  corporate   barter  area  of  the  industry.   In  these
transactions,  the Company  acquires goods and services that it either sells for
cash or ITEX  trade  dollars or holds in  inventory  for  further  trades in the
corporate barter area or for trading to members of the Exchange.

The Company owns and operates  retail barter  offices in Portland,  Oregon;  St.
Louis,  Missouri; and Orange County,  California.  All other ITEX broker offices
are  independently  owned  and  operated  by ITEX  Licensed  Brokers.  There are
presently  over 150  broker  offices  worldwide.  One of the  Company's  current
objectives  is  aggressive  international  expansion  of the ITEX  retail  trade
network.  The Company has license  arrangements with international  licensees in
Canada, South Africa, and Australia that were established in prior fiscal years.
During fiscal 1997,  the Company has signed new  agreements  with  international
licensees  in  Turkey,   Norway,  and  Romania  and  has  extended  the  license
arrangements  in South  Africa and  Australia.  The Company  bears no  financial
responsibility for the financing of an independent broker office.

Additionally,  the Company acts as an intermediary for the exchange of goods and
services  between major  companies,  through ITEX USA, Inc., a corporate  barter
management  company,  which is the Company's  exclusive  agent for marketing the
Company's  corporate  and  industrial  trading  business.  ITEX  USA  negotiates
corporate barter  agreements,  services these agreements and sells the inventory
it acquires in these transactions.  In these transactions,  ITEX USA issues ITEX
Cash Equivalent Credits, which are separate and apart from the ITEX Retail Trade
Dollar,  now  used in  accounting  for  transactions  in the ITEX  Retail  Trade
Exchange  System.  The revenues  generated from those  inventories when sold for
cash are divided between the Company and ITEX USA. This is the first and primary
profit  center in each ITEX  corporate  barter  transaction.  The second  profit
center is a 12% transaction fee paid by the ITEX Corporate  Barter client on the
Cash  Equivalent  Credit portion of each purchase.  This revenue is also divided
between the Company and its licensee, ITEX USA.

The Company operates with the objectives of long-term equity-building while also
ensuring  availability  of sufficient cash for current  operating  requirements.
Accordingly,  the Company may in any period report significant revenue, profits,

                                       7
 
and increases in net assets from transactions  denominated in ITEX trade dollars
or other  noncash  consideration.  Sometimes,  the  Company  invests  in  equity
securities with ITEX trade dollars that have been earned by the Company in trade
transactions.  The companies  invested in are able to use the ITEX trade dollars
received in payment for the stock issued to purchase  goods and services used in
the operation of their businesses.

As a result of this utilization of trade dollars, the Company has accumulated an
investment  portfolio of marketable  equity  securities  totaling  $3,877,000 at
February 12, 1997,  stated at the lower of cost or market.  Also at February 12,
1997, the Company owned inventories of goods and services  totaling  $9,141,000,
stated at the lower of cost or market, which was available for corporate trading
or trading to members  within the Exchange,  which  increases  cash  commissions
earned by the Company, for exchange for equity securities of other companies, or
for consumption by the Company in providing for its own operating needs.

NOTE 3 - REVENUE

The following  table  summarizes  the cash and trade  (consisting  of ITEX trade
dollars and other noncash  consideration)  components of revenue for each of the
fiscal quarters ended February 12, 1997 and January 15, 1995:

NOTE 4 -  INVENTORY FOR PRINCIPAL PARTY TRADING

Following are the components of inventory for principal party trading:

                                            February 12,
                                                1997         July 31, 1996
                                            -------------    -------------
                                                    (in thousands)

    Prepaid media advertising duebills      $      4,580     $      3,530
    Art work                                       2,645            2,642
    Hotel roomnights                               1,569            1,482
    Miscellaneous                                    347              190
                                            -------------    -------------
                                            $      9,141     $      7,844
                                            =============    =============

                                       8
 
NOTE 5 - INVESTMENT IN FOREIGN EQUITY AFFILIATE

The Company owns a 49% interest in Associated  Reciprocal Traders, Inc. ("ART"),
a foreign corporation based in Switzerland with international  commercial barter
operations.  ART engages in commercial barter transactions as a buyer and seller
of goods and services with companies and businesses  that are based in countries
outside the United States, as well as U.S. companies. Through July 31, 1996, the
Company  accounted for its  investment in and share of net income or loss of ART
by the equity  method.  The Company's  equity share of ART's net income  (loss),
after  amortization of the difference  between investment cost and the Company's
proportionate  share of  underlying  assets,  was  ($90,000) for the fiscal year
ended July 31,  1996,  $958,000  for the fiscal  year ended July 31,  1995,  and
$632,000 for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1994.

All of the  undistributed  earnings of the foreign affiliate were reinvested and
were not  expected to be remitted to the parent  company.  On November 27, 1996,
the majority  owner of ART informed the Company of its intent to take  immediate
steps to distribute all the assets of ART and to end the  relationship  with the
Company.  The Company  had  previously  intended  to  reinvest  its share of the
earnings of this venture indefinitely and, accordingly,  had not provided income
taxes on its share of ART's undistributed earnings. As a result of the inability
to continue to reinvest its share of ART's  earnings,  the Company  recognized a
deferred  provision for income taxes of $1,247,000  during the fourth quarter of
the fiscal year ended July 31,  1996,  which was  reported as a reduction of the
Company's  share of equity in net  income  (loss) of  foreign  affiliate  in the
statement of operations for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 1996.

The   assets  of  ART  as  of   February   12,   1997   consist   primarily   of
available-for-sale securities, none of which are securities of ITEX Corporation.
The  majority  owner of ART has  agreed  to  distribute  the  assets  on a basis
expected to result in the Company realizing an amount not less than the carrying
value of the Company's  investment.  The Company  expects to be able to meet any
requirements  to pay the current  deferred tax liability by selling a portion of
the   available-for-sale   securities  to  be  received.  The  Company  is  also
considering  alternative  ways of dealing  with the  resolution  of this  issue.
Commencing  August 1, 1996,  the Company is accounting for its investment in ART
by the cost method.

NOTE 6 - BANK LINE OF CREDIT

On December 4, 1996,  the Company's  primary bank agreed to a new line of credit
arrangement  with a term  through  December  31,  1997.  Pursuant to the line of
credit,  the Company may borrow up to $250,000 on a short-term basis for working
capital  purposes.  The interest rate  applicable to borrowings  pursuant to the
facility is equal to the bank's  prime rate of interest  plus 1.5%.  The maximum
amount of cash borrowings that may be outstanding at any time is determined by a
borrowing  base  formula  related  to  available   collateral.   Borrowings  are
collateralized by the Company's accounts receivable, fixed assets and inventory.
As of February 12, 1997,  the Company had no  borrowings  outstanding  under the
bank credit facility. Based on available collateral,  the entire facility amount
of credit of $250,000 was available to the Company as of February 12, 1997.

                                       9
 
NOTE 7 - TRADE DOLLARS EARNED AND TRADE DOLLARS EXPENDED

At February 12, 1997,  the Company had earned  1,186,000  ITEX trade  dollars in
excess of the amount of trade  dollars  expended  by the  Company.  The  Company
intends to use these  trade  dollars to  purchase  goods and  services  from the
Exchange for use by the Company in its  operations or for the purchase of equity
securities of other companies.

At the end of a period,  the Company may have  expended  more trade dollars than
earned. This situation is commonly referred to in the commercial barter industry
as a "negative trade balance."

Trade  dollars  expended  in excess of earned  by the  Company  is  specifically
provided for in the ITEX Trading Rules that govern the Exchange. Such provisions
allow the Company to expend  trade  dollars in excess of earned  within  certain
guideline amounts.  This provides the Company with additional  liquidity and the
opportunity  to complete  advantageous  purchase  transactions  that benefit the
Company and  Exchange  members.  The Company  would be  ultimately  obligated to
provide  goods and  services to Exchange  members to offset any amounts of trade
dollars expended in excess of earned. This could be accomplished by the sale for
trade dollars of the  inventories  for which  acquisition  resulted in the trade
dollars issued in excess of earned or other  inventories,  by otherwise  earning
trade dollars, or a combination of both.

NOTE 8 - CAPITAL STOCK

PRIVATE  PLACEMENT.  The terms of the Wycliff private placement provided that if
Wycliff  failed to pay at least  $625,000 in any calendar  quarter,  the Company
could,  at its  sole  option,  decline  to  thereafter  sell  any  of  the  then
unpurchased units to Wycliff.  Wycliff did not pay the purchase price that would
have been due for the calendar  quarter ended  September 30, 1996, and therefore
the Company may cancel the remaining portion of the private placement.

STOCK  OPTION  PLAN.  The Board of  Directors  adopted a new stock  option  plan
applicable to directors,  officers,  employees,  and  consultants of the Company
effective December 27, 1996,  pursuant to which 1,000,000 shares of common stock
were  reserved  for  issuance,  all of which  were  granted to  optionees  at an
exercise price of $3.75 per share. Exercise prices for the options granted under
the new  plan  are  equal  to  market  value  on the  date of  grant  and may be
exercisable  for up to five years.  The Company  intends to present the new plan
for approval by the  Company's  shareholders  at the annual  meeting.  It is the
intention of the Company to file a Form S-8 registration with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  with  respect  to the  shares of common  stock  underlying
options to be issued pursuant to the plan.

STOCK SPLIT. At the annual meeting of the Company's shareholders on May 3, 1996,
the  Company's  shareholders  approved a  two-for-one  forward  stock split with
respect  to the  Company's  common  stock.  The  stock  split  has not yet  been
implemented  by the Company,  and it is not  anticipated  that the split will be
implemented.

                                       10
 
NOTE 9 - ACQUISITION OF 50% INTEREST IN BUSINESS EXCHANGE
                 INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION AND RELATED LITIGATION

On January 24, 1996,  the Company  acquired a 100% common stock interest in SLI,
Inc. ("SLI"),  a Nevada  corporation now known as IME, Inc., in exchange for the
issuance to SLI's former  shareholders of 60,000 shares of the Company's  common
stock  valued  at  approximately   $645,000.   The  Company  then  made  a  cash
contribution  to the capital of SLI of $1,750,000 and made a loan of $300,000 to
SLI.  Also on January 24, 1996,  SLI  purchased a 50% common  stock  interest in
Business  Exchange  International  Corporation  ("BXI"),  a Nevada  corporation,
pursuant to rights to purchase  such  interest  that had been assigned to SLI by
the former  shareholders  of SLI. SLI paid $1,750,000 for the common interest in
BXI by the  purchase of newly issued  common stock of BXI and, in addition,  SLI
loaned  $300,000 to BXI.  BXI owns and  operates  one of the  leading  organized
barter exchanges in the United States.

On February  12,  1996,  a complaint  was filed on behalf of the Company and its
wholly owned  subsidiary,  SLI, Inc.,  against Saul Yarmak,  Stephen  Friedland,
Business Exchange  International  Corp., BX International,  Inc., Joel Sens, and
David Lawson.  The complaint,  filed in the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon
for  Multnomah  County  Case No.  9602-01076,  asserted  claims  for  breach  of
contract,   specific  performance,   declaratory  judgment,  fraud,  defamation,
unlawful trade  practices,  and  interference  with economic  relationships.  It
sought to recover damages for allegedly  disparaging  remarks made by certain of
the  defendants  against  ITEX and for a court  ruling  that SLI  acquired a 50%
interest in the BXI trade exchange owned by one or more of the defendants.

On April 30, 1996, defendants Yarmak, Friedland, Business Exchange International
Corp.,  and BX  International,  Inc.,  filed  an  answer  denying  the  material
allegations and asserting a counterclaim for attorney fees.

On  October  11,  1996,  ITEX  Corporation  moved for  dismissal  of its  claims
(business  defamation,  unlawful trade practices and interference  with economic
relationships),  without prejudice,  against  defendants.  On that same date the
motion  was  granted  and  leave  granted  to file an  Amended  Complaint.  That
complaint  is styled  SLI,  Inc. v. Saul  Yarmak,  Stephen  Friedland,  Business
Exchange  International  Corp. and BX International,  Inc. The Amended Complaint
restates  the  claims  against  defendants  for  breach  of  contract,  specific
performance,  declaratory  judgment and fraud. By dismissing ITEX  Corporation's
claims without  prejudice,  ITEX may, if it chooses,  reinstitute its claims for
business  defamation,  unlawful trade practices and  interference  with economic
relationships.  Proceeding  under the Amended  Complaint  permitted an expedited
determination of the core contract issues raised,  that is, whether BXI breached
its contract with SLI by asserting  that the BXI Trade  Exchange is not an asset
of BXI. The defendants have asserted counterclaims for attorney's fees and fraud
against SLI in defendants' amended answer and counterclaims.

On December 20, 1996 SLI filed a motion for partial summary judgment  requesting
that the court rule as a matter of law that the contract is unambiguous and that
the defendants had breached the contract for sale of the 50% interest in the BXI
trade exchange.  If the court found in favor of SLI on these issues,  the motion
asked that the court declare that SLI is 50% owner of the company which owns

                                       11
 
the BXI trade exchange or, alternatively,  order the defendants to take whatever
steps are necessary to transfer the assets of the BXI trade exchange to BXI.

On March 12, 1997 the court ruled from the bench and  granted  SLI's  motion for
partial summary judgment. A formal order has now been submitted to the court for
the actual entry of judgment.  Because the initial ruling by the court was oral,
a hearing on the form of the judgment has been set for April 4, 1997.

The financial outcome of the ruling in favor of SLI is presently unclear.  If it
results  in SLI  being  the 50%  owner of a  company  which  owns the BXI  trade
exchange,  SLI will be  expected  to share in the  successes  and growth of that
exchange.  However,  the litigation has resulted in some  uncertainty  about the
financial  conditions  of the BXI trade  exchange due to the inability of SLI to
obtain  operating  data  concerning  the  exchange.  Further  litigation  may be
necessary for SLI to fully enjoy the benefits of its acquisition.  However,  the
Company  considers  the  court's  ruling  to be a  complete  vindication  of the
position that ITEX Corporation has consistently taken in the face of allegations
that BXI was not the owner of the BXI trade exchange assets.

NOTE 10 - FOREIGN LICENSE AGREEMENTS

On December 19, 1996,  the Company  announced  the signing of an agreement  with
Ihlas Holdings, a major Turkish corporation,  to license an ITEX Barter Exchange
in Turkey,  to be called  Ihlas ITEX Barter SA.  Under the  agreement,  which is
effective  January 1, 1997,  Ihlas Holdings  receives  exclusive use of the ITEX
name, trademarks,  and proprietary barter accounting and management software for
use in Turkey.  The Company will receive  royalties based on trade  transactions
generated through the new system,  which will enable Ihlas ITEX clients to trade
with ITEX members in other countries.  Ihlas Holdings is one of Turkey's largest
corporations,  has  57  subsidiaries,  which  include  interests  in  chemicals,
textiles,  food,  electronics,   health  care,  construction,   media,  banking,
insurance,  and international trade. Ihlas has already taken steps to expand the
Ihlas ITEX barter network into the nearby states of Kazakhstan,  Turkistan,  and
Azerbijan.

During the quarter  ended  February  12,  1997,  the Company  entered into a new
international  license arrangement for operations in Norway and renewed previous
arrangements  in Australia  and South  Africa.  Trade  exchange  revenue for the
second  quarter  includes  revenue  from  foreign  license  agreements  totaling
$398,000. Subsequent to the quarter ended February 12, 1997, the Company entered
into a license agreement with an international licensee in Romania.

NOTE 11 - INCOME PER SHARE

Income  per  share of common  stock is  computed  on the  basis of the  weighted
average  shares of common  stock  outstanding,  plus  common  equivalent  shares
arising from the effect of dilutive  stock options  using the modified  treasury
stock  method,  and net income  increased for debt  reduction and  investment in
short-term  paper from the  hypothetical  exercise  of  options.  This  modified
version of the treasury stock method,  also referred to as "the 20%  provision,"
is  required  if  the  number  of  shares  issuable  from  the  exercise  of all
outstanding options and warrants exceeds 20% of the number of shares outstanding
at the end of the period.

                                       12
 
Under the 20%  provision,  all options and  warrants are assumed to be exercised
(4,361,000  shares at  February  12,  1997)  but an amount  equal to only 20% of
shares outstanding  (1,371,000 shares at February 12, 1997) may be assumed to be
repurchased,  which  results  in  incremental  shares  for the  income per share
computation  of  2,990,000   shares,   which  when  added  to  6,855,000  shares
outstanding  at  February  12,  1997,  results  in a total  number  of shares of
9,845,000  for the  denominator  in the  income  per share  computation  for the
quarter ended February 12, 1997.

The  numerator  for the  computation  is  equal  to net  income  increased  by a
hypothetical  amount for interest  income or reduction in interest  expense from
the  assumed use of funds  received  from the  conversion  that were not used to
repurchase  stock because of the 20% limitation.  For the quarter ended February
12,  1997,  the  hypothetical  increase to net income from  interest  income and
reduction of interest expense,  after tax effect, totaled $134,000. For the year
to date income per share  computation,  the hypothetical  increase to net income
from  interest  income and  reduction  of  interest  expense,  after tax effect,
totaled $174,000.  Because of these presumed increases in income required by the
20% provision,  income per share cannot be directly computed using net income as
reported in the statement of operations.

ITEM 2.           MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

BUSINESS, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Business and Plan of Operation

The  Company is engaged in domestic  and  international  operations  in both the
retail  barter  exchange and  corporate  barter areas of the  commercial  barter
industry.   The  Company  administers  the  ITEX  Retail  Barter  Exchange  (the
Exchange),  which is an association  of business  owners and  professionals  who
trade  goods and  services  with other  members  of the  Exchange.  The  Company
promotes the  maximization  of trade through  barter  transactions  that benefit
members within the Exchange by: (a)  generating  incremental  new business,  (b)
conserving  members'  cash by their  ability to spend ITEX  trade  dollars,  (c)
serving  effectively  as an alternative  source of financing,  (d) enhancing the
lifestyles  of  members,  and (e)  enabling  the sale of slow  moving  or excess
inventories at better values than can be realized in cash markets.

As  such,  the  Company  acts  as  a  third-party   record-keeper   of  members'
transactions and balances,  which are denominated in ITEX trade dollars. An ITEX
trade dollar is an  accounting  unit used by the Exchange to record the value of
trades as determined by the buying and selling  parties in barter  transactions.
ITEX trade dollars denote the right to receive goods or services  available from
other  Exchange  members or the obligation to provide goods or services to other
Exchange members. The Company does not redeem trade dollars for cash. ITEX trade
dollars may be used only in the manner and for the purpose set forth in the ITEX
Trading Rules that govern the Exchange. ITEX trade dollars are not legal tender,
securities, or commodities.

Members of the Exchange pay cash and ITEX trade dollar fees and  commissions  to
the Company. The Company typically receives a cash commission of 5% on

                                       13
 
the  purchases  and sales  made by  members  of the  Exchange.  In  addition  to
administering the activities and record-keeping of the Exchange, the Company, as
a member of the  Exchange,  trades as a principal  party in barter  transactions
with other  members.  The Company  also  engages as a  principal  party in trade
transactions   in  the  corporate   barter  area  of  the  industry.   In  these
transactions,  the Company  acquires goods and services that it either sells for
cash or ITEX  trade  dollars or holds in  inventory  for  further  trades in the
corporate barter area or for trading to members of the Exchange.

The Company owns and operates  retail barter  offices in Portland,  Oregon;  St.
Louis,  Missouri; and Orange County,  California.  All other ITEX broker offices
are  independently  owned  and  operated  by ITEX  Licensed  Brokers.  There are
presently  over 150  broker  offices  worldwide.  One of the  Company's  current
objectives  is  aggressive  international  expansion  of the ITEX  retail  trade
network.  The Company has license  arrangements with international  licensees in
Canada, South Africa, and Australia that were established in prior fiscal years.
During fiscal 1997,  the Company has signed new  agreements  with  international
licensees  in  Turkey,   Norway,  and  Romania  and  has  extended  the  license
arrangements  in South  Africa and  Australia.  The Company  bears no  financial
responsibility for the financing of an independent broker office.

Additionally,  the Company acts as an intermediary for the exchange of goods and
services  between major  companies,  through ITEX USA, Inc., a corporate  barter
management  company,  which is the Company's  exclusive  agent for marketing the
Company's  corporate  and  industrial  trading  business.  ITEX  USA  negotiates
corporate barter  agreements,  services these agreements and sells the inventory
it acquires in these transactions.  In these transactions,  ITEX USA issues ITEX
Cash Equivalent Credits, which are separate and apart from the ITEX Retail Trade
Dollar,  now  used in  accounting  for  transactions  in the ITEX  Retail  Trade
Exchange  System.  The revenues  generated from those  inventories when sold for
cash are divided between the Company and ITEX USA. This is the first and primary
profit  center in each ITEX  corporate  barter  transaction.  The second  profit
center is a 12% transaction fee paid by the ITEX Corporate  Barter client on the
Cash  Equivalent  Credit portion of each purchase.  This revenue is also divided
between the Company and its licensee, ITEX USA.

The Company operates with the objectives of long-term equity-building while also
ensuring  availability  of sufficient cash for current  operating  requirements.
Accordingly,  the Company may in any period report significant revenue, profits,
and increases in net assets from transactions  denominated in ITEX trade dollars
or other  noncash  consideration.  Sometimes,  the  Company  invests  in  equity
securities with ITEX trade dollars that have been earned by the Company in trade
transactions.  The companies  invested in are able to use the ITEX trade dollars
received in payment for the stock issued to purchase  goods and services used in
the operation of their businesses.

As a result of this utilization of trade dollars, the Company has accumulated an
investment  portfolio of marketable  equity  securities  totaling  $3,877,000 at
February 12, 1997,  stated at the lower of cost or market.  Also at February 12,
1997, the Company owned inventories of goods and services  totaling  $9,141,000,
stated at the lower of cost or market, which was available for corporate trading
or trading to members  within the Exchange,  which  increases  cash  commissions
earned by the

                                       14
 
Company,  for  exchange  for  equity  securities  of  other  companies,  or  for
consumption by the Company in providing for its own operating needs.

In 1993 the Company  purchased a 49% interest in Associated  Reciprocal  Traders
("ART"), a trading company located in Zug, Switzerland.  ART acts as a buyer and
seller of goods and services using barter,  usually dealing with parties outside
the U.S.  Through its  interest in ART,  the Company  attained a presence in the
international  corporate  barter  marketplace.  The Company's share of ART's net
assets and  results of  operations  were  included  in the  Company's  financial
statements  using the equity  method of  accounting  through July 31, 1996.  The
Company's  equity share of ART's net income (loss),  after  amortization  of the
difference  between  investment  cost and the Company's  proportionate  share of
underlying  assets,  was  ($90,000)  for the fiscal  year  ended July 31,  1996,
$958,000  for the fiscal year ended July 31,  1995,  and $632,000 for the fiscal
year ended July 31, 1994.

On November  27,  1996,  the  majority  owner of ART informed the Company of its
intent to take  immediate  steps to distribute  all the assets of ART and to end
the  relationship  with the  Company.  The  Company had  previously  intended to
reinvest  its  share  of  the  earnings  of  this  venture   indefinitely   and,
accordingly,  had not provided income taxes on its share of ART's  undistributed
earnings.  As a result of the  inability  to continue  to reinvest  its share of
ART's earnings,  the Company recognized a deferred provision for income taxes of
$1,247,000 during the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 1996.

The   assets  of  ART  as  of   February   12,   1997   consist   primarily   of
available-for-sale securities, none of which are securities of ITEX Corporation.
The  majority  owner of ART has  agreed  to  distribute  the  assets  on a basis
expected to result in the Company realizing an amount not less than the carrying
value of the Company's  investment.  The Company  expects to be able to meet any
requirements  to pay the current  deferred tax liability by selling a portion of
the  available-for-sale  securities  to be  received.  The  assets  of ART as of
February 12, 1997 consist primarily of  available-for-sale  securities,  none of
which are securities of ITEX  Corporation.  The majority owner of ART has agreed
to distribute the assets on a basis expected to result in the Company  realizing
an amount not less than the  carrying  value of the  Company's  investment.  The
Company expects to be able to meet any  requirements to pay the current deferred
tax  liability by selling a portion of the  available-for-sale  securities to be
received.  The Company is also considering  alternative ways of dealing with the
resolution of this issue.  Commencing  August 1, 1996, the Company is accounting
for its  investment in ART by the cost method.  Commencing  August 1, 1996,  the
Company is accounting for its investment in ART by the cost method.

During  the last  several  years,  the  Company  started  and  operated  a media
department,  which  exchanged  media products owned by the Company for due bills
for  prepaid  advertising  credits on radio  stations  across the U.S.  The four
Company-owned  products included the Image Audio Music Production Library, , the
Golden Age of Radio Theatre,  the New Rock Countdown,  and Flashback ... Moments
in Time.  During the fourth  quarter of the fiscal year ended July 31, 1996, the
Company  sold  certain  media  inventory  and  reduced  the  scope of its  media
operations in order to improve the Company's ongoing cash flow.

                                       15
 
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES

On December 19, 1996,  the Company  announced  the signing of an agreement  with
Ihlas Holdings, a major Turkish corporation,  to license an ITEX Barter Exchange
in Turkey,  to be called  Ihlas ITEX Barter SA.  Under the  agreement,  which is
effective  January 1, 1997,  Ihlas Holdings  receives  exclusive use of the ITEX
name, trademarks,  and proprietary barter accounting and management software for
use in Turkey.  The Company will receive  royalties based on trade  transactions
generated through the new system,  which will enable Ihlas ITEX clients to trade
with ITEX members in other countries.  Ihlas Holdings is one of Turkey's largest
corporations,  has  57  subsidiaries,  which  include  interests  in  chemicals,
textiles,  food,  electronics,   health  care,  construction,   media,  banking,
insurance,  and international trade. Ihlas has already taken steps to expand the
Ihlas ITEX barter network into the nearby states of Kazakhstan,  Turkistan,  and
Azerbijan.

The Company has developed a comprehensive  training program for its brokers. New
brokers  come  to  the  training  center  at  the  Company's  Portland,   Oregon
headquarters  for an intensive  week of initial  training  before  receiving the
credential of "Associate  Broker." They are then permitted to set up offices and
act as barter brokers for the Company's clients.  After  demonstrating  adequate
competence  and  achieving  specified  performance  levels,  they  return to the
training  center  for an  additional  week  of  training  before  receiving  the
credential of "ITEX Licensed Broker."

The Company has  developed  the largest and most  innovative  electronic  barter
exchange  in the  industry.  The system is modeled  after the NASDAQ  electronic
market quotation system. In a commercial barter exchange, the exchange acts as a
third  party  recordkeeper  for all  parties  who join the  barter  system.  One
advantage of this system is that it enables multi-lateral trade to take place.

Recent  technological  improvements  include a  software  update of the  Account
Information  Maintenance  program utilized by ITEX Brokers, a software update of
the  BarterWire  program  which is utilized by both ITEX Brokers and ITEX Retail
Trade Exchange Members, and developing access on the Internet.

During  the  fiscal  year  1995,   the  Company   completed  an  agreement  with
International  Trade Exchange  (ITEX) Corp., a Vancouver B.C. based company,  to
operate the Canadian  barter  company.  International  Trade Exchange Corp. does
business  in  Canada  under  the  names  ITEX  and  Bartercard.  In spite of the
similarity of names, ITEX Corporation (U.S.) and  ITEX/Bartercard  (Canada) have
never had a business  relationship in the past. Under the terms of the agreement
ITEX  acquired  the rights to the name and  trademarks  of  International  Trade
Exchange  together  with the right to acquire its client  base and  assets.  The
addition of the affiliation with ITEX/Bartercard and the ITEX licensee in Canada
will more fully  enable ITEX clients to do business  coast-to-coast  in both the
U.S. and Canada.

The  Company  has  pioneered  electronic  trading  with its  BarterWire  system,
introduced  by the  Company  nearly a decade  ago.  Using  BarterWire,  Exchange
members can buy and sell products and services  through a personal  computer and
modem from  anywhere  in the world where  telephone  service is  available.  The
Company has continued to enhance its BarterWire software so that users can trade
more efficiently through the Exchange system.  Latest enhanced versions are more
user friendly with features familiar to those who are accustomed to the Windows

                                       16
 
environment.  It  also  includes  color  and  graphic  capabilities  for  better
presentation of products and services offered through the system.

The Company has also made BarterWire  available to clients through the Internet,
complete with its own gateway and web server.  This enables  Exchange members to
enjoy the advantages of the latest  version of BarterWire  together with savings
on long distance charges and a larger  electronic  marketplace.  The Company has
the same internet connection capability as that of many typical internet service
providers.

Another  electronic  trading  feature  introduced by the Company is a "fax-back"
system for  Exchange  clients,  which  enables  Exchange  members to request and
receive their account  records,  company data, ITEX business forms,  product and
service lists, and other information by fax.

The  ITEX  Express  card   continues  to  enhance   trade  among  ITEX  clients,
particularly  when taken in concert with other electronic  trading  innovations.
The ITEX Express card is the Company's  debit-credit card for barter,  the first
of its kind in the U.S.  The  card  can be used  for  identification  or to make
purchases using a three part voucher form or point-of-sale (POS) terminal.  ITEX
has  encouraged  the use of POS terminals as a way to speed barter  transactions
and increase the volume of trade.

Management believes that electronic trading systems such as BarterWire, Internet
access, the ITEX Express card, and the fax-back  information and trading service
represent the next major step forward in the development of the barter industry.
By its early involvement in the electronic marketplace, ITEX believes it will be
positioned to take full advantage of future developments in this area.

The  Company  believes  that  new  technologies  and  the  emerging   electronic
marketplace  have  the  potential  to  profoundly  affect  the way  business  is
conducted. As this new marketplace emerges, the Company is positioning itself to
take full advantage of this trend. The Company is already becoming recognized as
an industry leader in this field. As the transition to electronic business takes
place, ITEX intends to play a major role.

During the fiscal  quarter ended February 12, 1997, the Company spent a total of
$29,000 on  research  and  development  for its  communication  and  information
systems,  all of which was  charged to  expense.  During the  twenty-eight  week
period ended February 12, 1997, the Company spent a total of $82,000 on research
and development for its communication and information  systems, of which $22,000
was capitalized and $60,000 was charged to expense.

The ITEX symbol and name have, in the past,  been  registered  trademarks of the
Company.  A new application for the ITEX symbol and name has been filed with the
Patent and Trademark Office.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

OVERALL FINANCIAL POSITION.  At February 12, 1997, the Company's working capital
ratio  was  0.78 to 1,  based  on  current  assets  of  $2,634,000  and  current
liabilities of $3,391,000. The Company's working capital ratio at July 31, 1996,
was 1.1 to 1, based on current assets of $2,827,000  and current  liabilities of
$2,566,000. The

                                       17
 
change in the  working  capital  ratio  occurred  because at  February  12, 1997
current liabilities includes income taxes payable of $855,000 related to current
year earnings.  Current  liabilities also includes  deferred taxes of $1,247,000
related to the distribution of assets, primarily  available-for-sale  securities
from ART,  the  Company's  foreign  affiliate.  The net  assets to be  received,
consisting  primarily  of  available-for-sale  securities,  are  included in the
long-term   classification   of  investment  in  foreign  equity   affiliate  of
$3,197,000.  The Company expects to be able to meet any  requirements to pay the
current  deferred tax  liability by selling a portion of the  available-for-sale
securities to be received.

Total  stockholders'  equity increased to $21,890,000 at February 12, 1997, from
$20,383,000 at July 31, 1996. The primary increase in  stockholders'  equity was
from the Company's continued profitable operations.

The  Statement of Cash Flows  indicates  negative  cash flow from  operations of
$121,000 for the  twenty-eight  week period ended February 12, 1997,  which is a
significant  improvement from negative cash flow from operations of $760,000 for
the  twenty-four  week period ended January 15, 1996. The Company  believes that
cash  fees  and  commissions,  cash  that  can be  obtained  from  the  sale  of
inventories and  available-for-sale  equity  securities at the discretion of the
Company,  and cash that  would be  available  from the sale of  equity  and debt
securities of the Company will be sufficient to fund cash operating needs of the
Company  while  continuing  to follow  the  strategy  of  mixing  cash and trade
activities so as to maximize  long-term  equity building and shareholder  value.
Furthermore,  the Company is presently incurring negative cash flow with respect
to several development projects. At the Company's discretion,  it could conserve
cash by suspending or terminating  these  activities.  However,  there can be no
assurance that adequate funds from operations or any other sources will continue
to be available on terms acceptable to the Company.

PRIVATE  PLACEMENT.  The terms of the Wycliff private placement provided that if
Wycliff  failed to pay at least  $625,000 in any calendar  quarter,  the Company
could,  at its  sole  option,  decline  to  thereafter  sell  any  of  the  then
unpurchased units to Wycliff.  Wycliff did not pay the purchase price that would
have been due for the calendar  quarter ended  September 30, 1996, and therefore
the Company may cancel the remaining portion of the private placement.

STOCK  OPTION  PLAN.  The Board of  Directors  adopted a new stock  option  plan
applicable to directors,  officers,  employees,  and  consultants of the Company
effective December 27, 1996,  pursuant to which 1,000,000 shares of common stock
were  reserved  for  issuance,  all of which  were  granted to  optionees  at an
exercise price of $3.75 per share. Exercise prices for the options granted under
the new  plan  are  equal  to  market  value  on the  date of  grant  and may be
exercisable  for up to five years.  The Company  intends to present the new plan
for approval by the  Company's  shareholders  at the annual  meeting.  It is the
intention of the Company to file a Form S-8 registration with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  with  respect  to the  shares of common  stock  underlying
options to be issued pursuant to the plan.

STOCK SPLIT. At the annual meeting of the Company's shareholders on May 3, 1996,
the  Company's  shareholders  approved a  two-for-one  forward  stock split with
respect  to the  Company's  common  stock.  The  stock  split  has not yet  been

                                       18
 
implemented  by the Company,  and it is not  anticipated  that the split will be
implemented.

BANK LINE OF CREDIT. On December 4, 1996, the Company's primary bank agreed to a
new line of credit  arrangement with a term through December 31, 1997.  Pursuant
to the line of credit,  the Company  may borrow up to  $250,000 on a  short-term
basis for working capital  purposes.  The interest rate applicable to borrowings
pursuant  to the  facility is equal to the bank's  prime rate of  interest  plus
1.5%. The maximum amount of cash  borrowings that may be outstanding at any time
is  determined  by a borrowing  base formula  related to  available  collateral.
Borrowings are collateralized by the Company's accounts receivable, fixed assets
and  inventory.  As  of  February  12,  1997,  the  Company  had  no  borrowings
outstanding under the bank credit facility.  Based on available collateral,  the
entire  facility amount of credit of $250,000 was available to the Company as of
February 12, 1997.

ACQUISITION OF 50% INTEREST IN BUSINESS EXCHANGE  INTERNATIONAL  CORPORATION AND
RELATED  LITIGATION.  On January 24,  1996,  the Company  acquired a 100% common
stock  interest in SLI, Inc.  ("SLI"),  a Nevada  corporation  now known as IME,
Inc., in exchange for the issuance to SLI's former shareholders of 60,000 shares
of the Company's common stock valued at approximately $645,000. The Company then
made a cash  contribution to the capital of SLI of $1,750,000 and made a loan of
$300,000 to SLI.  Also on January 24,  1996,  SLI  purchased a 50% common  stock
interest  in  Business  Exchange  International  Corporation  ("BXI"),  a Nevada
corporation, pursuant to rights to purchase such interest that had been assigned
to SLI by the former  shareholders  of SLI. SLI paid  $1,750,000  for the common
interest in BXI by the  purchase  of newly  issued  common  stock of BXI and, in
addition,  SLI loaned  $300,000 to BXI. BXI owns and operates one of the leading
organized barter exchanges in the United States.

On February  12,  1996,  a complaint  was filed on behalf of the Company and its
wholly owned  subsidiary,  SLI, Inc.,  against Saul Yarmak,  Stephen  Friedland,
Business Exchange  International  Corp., BX International,  Inc., Joel Sens, and
David Lawson.  The complaint,  filed in the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon
for  Multnomah  County  Case No.  9602-01076,  asserted  claims  for  breach  of
contract,   specific  performance,   declaratory  judgment,  fraud,  defamation,
unlawful trade  practices,  and  interference  with economic  relationships.  It
sought to recover damages for allegedly  disparaging  remarks made by certain of
the  defendants  against  ITEX and for a court  ruling  that SLI  acquired a 50%
interest in the BXI trade exchange owned by one or more of the defendants.

On April 30, 1996, defendants Yarmak, Friedland, Business Exchange International
Corp.,  and BX  International,  Inc.,  filed  an  answer  denying  the  material
allegations and asserting a counterclaim for attorney fees.

On  October  11,  1996,  ITEX  Corporation  moved for  dismissal  of its  claims
(business  defamation,  unlawful trade practices and interference  with economic
relationships),  without prejudice,  against  defendants.  On that same date the
motion  was  granted  and  leave  granted  to file an  Amended  Complaint.  That
complaint  is styled  SLI,  Inc. v. Saul  Yarmak,  Stephen  Friedland,  Business
Exchange  International  Corp. and BX International,  Inc. The Amended Complaint
restates  the  claims  against  defendants  for  breach  of  contract,  specific
performance,  declaratory  judgment and fraud. By dismissing ITEX  Corporation's

                                       19
 
claims without  prejudice,  ITEX may, if it chooses,  reinstitute its claims for
business  defamation,  unlawful trade practices and  interference  with economic
relationships.  Proceeding  under the  Amended  Complaint  permits an  expedited
determination of the core contract issues raised,  that is, whether BXI breached
its contract with SLI by asserting  that the BXI Trade  Exchange is not an asset
of BXI. The defendants have asserted counterclaims for attorney's fees and fraud
against SLI in defendants' amended answer and counterclaims.

On December 20, 1996 SLI filed a motion for partial summary judgment  requesting
that the court rule as a matter of law that the contract is unambiguous and that
the defendants had breached the contract for sale of the 50% interest in the BXI
trade exchange.  If the court found in favor of SLI on these issues,  the motion
asked that the court declare that SLI is 50% owner of the company which owns the
BXI trade  exchange or,  alternatively,  order the  defendants  to take whatever
steps are necessary to transfer the assets of the BXI trade exchange to BXI.

On March 12, 1997 the court ruled from the bench and  granted  SLI's  motion for
partial summary judgment. A formal order has now been submitted to the court for
the actual entry of judgment.  Because the initial ruling by the court was oral,
a hearing on the form of the judgment has been set for April 4, 1997.

The financial outcome of the ruling in favor of SLI is presently unclear.  If it
results  in SLI  being  the 50%  owner of a  company  which  owns the BXI  trade
exchange,  SLI will be  expected  to share in the  successes  and growth of that
exchange.  However,  the litigation has resulted in some  uncertainty  about the
financial  conditions  of the BXI trade  exchange due to the inability of SLI to
obtain  operating  data  concerning  the  exchange.  Further  litigation  may be
necessary for SLI to fully enjoy the benefits of its acquisition.  However,  the
Company  considers  the  court's  ruling  to be a  complete  vindication  of the
position that ITEX Corporation has consistently taken in the face of allegations
that BXI was not the owner of the BXI trade exchange assets.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Comparison  of  Twelve-Week  Period Ended  February 12, 1997 (Second  Quarter of
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fiscal 1997) and  Twelve-Week  Period Ended January 15, 1996 (Second  Quarter of
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fiscal 1996)
- ------------

Overall Operating Results

Total revenue  decreased to $5,395,000 in the second quarter of fiscal 1997 from
$8,633,000  in the  second  quarter  of  fiscal  1996.  Income  from  operations
increased to  $1,495,000  in the second  quarter of fiscal 1997 from $594,000 in
the second  quarter of fiscal 1996. Net income  increased to $901,000,  or $0.11
per share,  in the second quarter of fiscal 1997,  from  $843,000,  or $0.12 per
share on a primary  basis  and $0.11 on a fully  diluted  basis,  in the  second
quarer of fiscal 1996.

In the second quarter of fiscal 1997, the Company's  revenue and profit from its
core retail trade exchange business increased significantly.  This higher-margin
revenue more than offset the effects of lower revenue from decreased activity in
corporate trading in the current quarter.  Trade exchange revenue for the second
quarter includes revenue from foreign license agreements totaling $398,000.  The

                                       20
 
Company  expects  revenue  from  international  licensees  to  continue  to make
contributions to revenue in future periods.

The increase in trade exchange  earnings and foreign  license  revenue also more
than  offset  the  elimination  of  earnings  from ART,  the  Company's  foreign
affiliate,  which  totaled  $413,000 in the second  quarter of fiscal  1996.  On
November 27, 1996,  the majority owner of ART informed the Company of its intent
to take  immediate  steps to  distribute  all the  assets  of ART and to end the
relationship  with the  Company.  Accordingly,  effective  August 1,  1996,  the
Company commenced  accounting for its investment in ART by the cost method,  and
has not recognized any earnings with respect to ART in the current quarter.

Revenue

TOTAL  REVENUE.  Total revenue  decreased to $5,395,000 in the second quarter of
fiscal 1997 from $8,633,000 in the second quarter of fiscal 1996. Following is a
summary of the components of revenue for the second  quarters of fiscal 1997 and
1996:

                                        Twelve          Twelve
                                     Weeks Ended     Weeks Ended
                                     February 12,    January 15,
                                         1997            1996
                                     ------------    -----------
                                            (in thousands)
     Corporate Trading Revenue
         Trade                       $       353      $   5,185
         Cash                                189            438
                                     ------------    -----------
                                             542          5,623
                                     ------------    -----------
     Trade Exchange Revenue
         Trade                             2,503          1,067
         Cash                              2,350          1,943
                                     ------------    -----------
                                           4,853          3,010
                                     ------------    -----------
      Total Revenue
         Trade                             2,856          6,252
         Cash                              2,539          2,381
                                     ------------    -----------
                                     $     5,395     $    8,633
                                     ============    ===========

TRADE  EXCHANGE  REVENUE.  In the second  quarter of fiscal 1997,  the Company's
revenue from its core retail trade  exchange  business  increased to  $4,853,000
from  $3,010,000  in the second  quarter of fiscal  1996.  The increase in trade
exchange  revenue  was  attributable  to an array of  factors.  The  Company has
continued its expansion  internally,  by acquisition,  and entering into foreign
license  agreements.  In the second quarter of fiscal 1997, the Company reported
revenue from foreign licensees totaling $398,000.  The Company has continued its
commitment to improved broker training  programs,  which is having the effect of
increased  rates of new clients  joining as members of the  Exchange  and higher
performance levels by brokers.  Further,  the Company continues to invest in its
ongoing broad-based marketing and advertising program targeted at recruitment of
additional brokers and members of the Exchange.

CORPORATE TRADING REVENUE.  The decreased level of corporate trading revenue was
attributable to the Company devoting less of its resources to corporate  trading
activities  during the current year.  Significant  management and staff time was
spent on litigation and other regulatory  matters, on further development of the
retail trade

                                       21
 
exchange, and on international expansion. Management is now beginning to refocus
more  resources  on  corporate  trading  activities  and  expects  increases  in
operating results from corporate trading activities in future periods.

Costs and Expenses

COSTS OF TRADE EXCHANGE  REVENUE.  Costs of trade exchange revenue  increased to
$1,802,000  in the second  quarter of fiscal 1997 from  $1,287,000 in the second
quarter of fiscal  1996.  Costs of trade  exchange  revenue,  which  consists of
brokers' fees and commissions,  were 37% of trade exchange revenue in the second
quarter  of  fiscal  1997 and 43% in the  second  quarter  of fiscal  1996.  The
decrease  in the cost  percentage  is  partially  attributable  to revenue  from
foreign  licensees,  on  which  the  Company  does  not pay  brokers'  fees  and
commissions.

COSTS OF CORPORATE TRADING.  Costs of corporate trading decreased to $376,000 in
the  second  quarter of fiscal  1997 from  $4,978,000  in the second  quarter of
fiscal 1996  because of the lower  revenue  level.  Costs of  corporate  trading
revenue  were 69% in the  second  quarter  of fiscal  1997 and 89% in the second
quarter of fiscal 1996. The cost  percentage  incurred during the second quarter
of 1996 is more  indicative of normal  ongoing cost  percentages  from corporate
trading.

SELLING,   GENERAL   AND   ADMINISTRATIVE   EXPENSES.   Selling,   general   and
administrative expenses were $1,722,000 in the second quarter of fiscal 1997 and
$1,774,000 in the second quarter of fiscal 1996.  Higher  professional  fees are
expected to be incurred at least during the next quarter.

Total  advertising  and promotion  was $403,000 in the second  quarter of fiscal
1997 as compared to $484,000 in the second  quarter of fiscal  1996.  One of the
advantages  available to barter  businesses is the ability to fund a significant
portion  of   advertising   costs  using   trade   dollars  or  by  other  trade
consideration.  During  the second  quarter of fiscal  1997,  the  Company  paid
$380,000  of its  advertising  costs  by  ITEX  trade  dollars  or  other  trade
consideration, representing 94% of total advertising costs for the period.

Comparison of Twenty-Eight-Week Period Ended February 12, 1997 (First 2 Quarters
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
of Fiscal  1997) and  Twenty-Four-Week  Period  Ended  January 15, 1996 (First 2
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Quarters of Fiscal 1996)
- ------------------------

Overall Operating Results

Total revenue  decreased to $11,310,000 in the first two quarters of fiscal 1997
from $15,992,000 in thefirst two quarters of fiscal 1996. Income from operations
increased to  $2,144,000  in the first two quarters of fiscal 1997 from $996,000
in the first two quarters of fiscal 1996. Net income increased to $1,311,000, or
$0.17 per share, in the first two quarters of fiscal 1997, from  $1,635,000,  or
$0.24 per share on a primary  basis or $0.22 on a fully  diluted  basis,  in the
first two quarters of fiscal 1996.

In the first two quarters of fiscal 1997, the Company's  revenue and profit from
its  core  retail  trade  exchange  business   increased   significantly.   This
higher-margin  revenue  more than  offset  the  effects  of lower  revenue  from
decreased  activity  in  corporate  trading in the first two  quarters of fiscal
1997.  Trade exchange revenue for the first two quarters of fiscal 1997 includes
revenue from foreign license

                                       22
 
agreements  totaling  $398,000.  The Company expects revenue from  international
licensees to continue to make contributions to revenue in future periods.

The increase in trade exchange  earnings and foreign  license  revenue also more
than  offset  the  elimination  of  earnings  from ART,  the  Company's  foreign
affiliate,  which totaled  $956,000 in the first two quarters of fiscal 1996. On
November 27, 1996,  the majority owner of ART informed the Company of its intent
to take  immediate  steps to  distribute  all the  assets  of ART and to end the
relationship  with the  Company.  Accordingly,  effective  August 1,  1996,  the
Company commenced  accounting for its investment in ART by the cost method,  and
has not recognized any earnings with respect to ART in the current quarter.

Revenue

Total Revenue.  Total revenue decreased to $11,310,000 in the first two quarters
of fiscal  1997 from  $15,992,000  in the first  two  quarters  of fiscal  1996.
Following is a summary of the  components  of revenue for the first two quarters
of fiscal 1997 and 1996:

                                     Twenty-eight    Twenty-four
                                     Weeks Ended     Weeks Ended
                                     February 12,    January 15,
                                         1997            1996
                                     ------------    -----------
                                            (in thousands)
    Corporate Trading Revenue
        Trade                        $       730    $     9,448
        Cash                                 967          1,370
                                     ------------    -----------
                                           1,697         10,818
                                     ------------    -----------
    Trade Exchange Revenue
        Trade                              4,117          1,874
        Cash                               5,496          3,300
                                     ------------    -----------
                                           9,613          5,174
                                     ------------    -----------
    Total Revenue
        Trade                             4,847          11,322
        Cash                              6,463           4,670
                                     ------------    -----------
                                     $   11,310      $   15,992
                                     ============    ===========

TRADE EXCHANGE REVENUE.  In the first two quarters of fiscal 1997, the Company's
revenue from its core retail trade  exchange  business  increased to  $9,613,000
from  $5,174,000 in the first two quarters of fiscal 1996. The increase in trade
exchange  revenue  was  attributable  to an array of  factors.  The  Company has
continued its expansion  internally,  by acquisition,  and entering into foreign
license  agreements.  In the first two  quarters  of fiscal  1997,  the  Company
reported  revenue  from foreign  licensees  totaling  $398,000.  The Company has
continued its commitment to improved broker training  programs,  which is having
the effect of increased  rates of new clients joining as members of the Exchange
and higher  performance  levels by brokers.  Further,  the Company  continues to
invest in its ongoing broad-based  marketing and advertising program targeted at
recruitment of additional brokers and members of the Exchange.

CORPORATE TRADING REVENUE.  The decreased level of corporate trading revenue was
attributable to the Company devoting less of its resources to corporate  trading
activities  during the current year.  Significant  management and staff time was
spent on litigation and other regulatory  matters, on further development of the
retail trade

                                       23
 
exchange, and on international expansion. Management is now beginning to refocus
more  resources  on  corporate  trading  activities  and  expects  increases  in
operating results from corporate trading activities in future periods.

Costs and Expenses

COSTS OF TRADE EXCHANGE  REVENUE.  Costs of trade exchange revenue  increased to
$3,730,000 in the first two quarters of fiscal 1997 from $2,276,000 in the first
two quarters of fiscal 1996. Costs of trade exchange revenue,  which consists of
brokers' fees and  commissions,  were 39% of trade exchange revenue in the first
two  quarters of fiscal 1997 and 44% in the first two  quarters of fiscal  1996.
The decrease in the cost  percentage is partially  attributable  to revenue from
foreign  licensees,  on  which  the  Company  does  not pay  brokers'  fees  and
commissions.

COSTS OF CORPORATE  TRADING.  Costs of corporate trading decreased to $1,583,000
in the  first two  quarters  of fiscal  1997  from  $8,978,000  in the first two
quarters of fiscal 1996 because of the lower revenue  level.  Costs of corporate
trading revenue were 93% in the first two quarters of fiscal 1997 and 83% in the
first two quarters of fiscal 1996.

SELLING,   GENERAL   AND   ADMINISTRATIVE   EXPENSES.   Selling,   general   and
administrative expenses were $3,853,000 in the first two quarters of fiscal 1997
and  $3,742,000  in the first two  quarters of fiscal  1996.  The  increase  was
attributable  to  amortization   expense  related  to  acquisitions  and  higher
professional  fees  connected with various  litigation  and regulatory  matters.
Also,  the  year-to-date  period for fiscal 1997  includes  twenty-eight  weeks,
whereas the  year-to-date  period for fiscal 1997  includes  twenty-four  weeks.
Higher  professional  fees are  expected to be incurred at least during the next
quarter.

Total  advertising  and  promotion  was  $1,048,000 in the first two quarters of
fiscal 1997 as compared to  $1,290,000 in the first two quarters of fiscal 1996.
One of the  advantages  available to barter  businesses is the ability to fund a
significant  portion of advertising  costs using trade dollars or by other trade
consideration.  During the first two quarters of fiscal  1997,  the Company paid
$1,010,000  of its  advertising  costs by ITEX  trade  dollars  or  other  trade
consideration, representing 96% of total advertising costs for the period.

Inflation
- ---------
The  Company's  results of  operations  have not been  affected by inflation and
management  does  not  expect  inflation  to have a  significant  effect  on its
operations in the future.

Forward-Looking Information
- ---------------------------
From time to time,  the  Company  or its  representatives  have made or may make
forward-looking   statements,   orally  or  in  writing.   Such  forward-looking
statements  may be  included  in,  but not  limited  to,  press  releases,  oral
statements  made with the  approval  of an  authorized  executive  officer or in
various filings made by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Words or phrases "will likely result",  "are expected to", "will continue",  "is
anticipated",  "estimate",  "project or projected",  or similar  expressions are
intended to identify "forward-

24
 
looking  statements"  within the  meaning of the Private  Securities  Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 (the "Reform  Act").  The Company  wishes to ensure that such
statements  are  accompanied  by  meaningful  cautionary  statements,  so  as to
maximize to the  fullest  extent  possible  the  protections  of the safe harbor
established  in the Reform Act.  Accordingly,  such  statements are qualified in
their entirety by reference to and are  accompanied by the following  discussion
of  certain  important  factors  that  could  cause  actual  results  to  differ
materially from such forward-looking statements.

Management is currently  unaware of any trends or  conditions  that could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, future
results of operations, or liquidity.

However,  investors  should also be aware of factors  that could have a negative
impact on the Company's  prospects and the  consistency of progress in the areas
of revenue  generation,  liquidity,  and generation of capital resources.  These
include:  (i)  variations  in the mix of  corporate  trading and trade  exchange
revenue,  (ii)  possible  inability of the Company to attract  investors for its
equity  securities  or otherwise  raise  adequate  funds from any source,  (iii)
increased governmental regulation of the barter business, (iv) a decrease in the
cash fees and  commissions  realized  by the  Company  based upon a  substantial
decrease in corporate or retail trade exchange transactions, and (v) unfavorable
outcomes to litigation  presently  involving the Company or to which the Company
may become a party in the future.

The risks identified here are not all inclusive. Furthermore,  reference is also
made to other sections of this report that include additional factors that could
adversely impact the Company's business and financial performance. Moreover, the
Company  operates in a very competitive and rapidly  changing  environment.  New
risk factors  emerge from time to time and it is not possible for  Management to
predict all of such risk factors,  nor can it assess the impact of all such risk
factors  on the  Company's  business  or the  extent  to  which  any  factor  or
combination of factors may cause actual results to differ  materially from those
contained  in  any  forward-looking  statements.  Accordingly,   forward-looking
statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results.

                           PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 1.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

On January 24, 1996,  the Company  acquired a 100% common stock interest in SLI,
Inc. ("SLI"),  a Nevada  corporation now known as IME, Inc., in exchange for the
issuance to SLI's former  shareholders of 60,000 shares of the Company's  common
stock  valued  at  approximately   $645,000.   The  Company  then  made  a  cash
contribution  to the capital of SLI of $1,750,000 and made a loan of $300,000 to
SLI.  Also on January 24, 1996,  SLI  purchased a 50% common  stock  interest in
Business  Exchange  International  Corporation  ("BXI"),  a Nevada  corporation,
pursuant to rights to purchase  such  interest  that had been assigned to SLI by
the former  shareholders  of SLI. SLI paid $1,750,000 for the common interest in
BXI by the  purchase of newly issued  common stock of BXI and, in addition,  SLI
loaned  $300,000 to BXI.  BXI owns and  operates  one of the  leading  organized
barter exchanges in the United States.

25
 
On February  12,  1996,  a complaint  was filed on behalf of the Company and its
wholly owned  subsidiary,  SLI, Inc.,  against Saul Yarmak,  Stephen  Friedland,
Business Exchange  International  Corp., BX International,  Inc., Joel Sens, and
David Lawson.  The complaint,  filed in the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon
for  Multnomah  County  Case No.  9602-01076,  asserted  claims  for  breach  of
contract,   specific  performance,   declaratory  judgment,  fraud,  defamation,
unlawful trade  practices,  and  interference  with economic  relationships.  It
sought to recover damages for allegedly  disparaging  remarks made by certain of
the  defendants  against  ITEX and for a court  ruling  that SLI  acquired a 50%
interest in the BXI trade exchange owned by one or more of the defendants.

On April 30, 1996, defendants Yarmak, Friedland, Business Exchange International
Corp.,  and BX  International,  Inc.,  filed  an  answer  denying  the  material
allegations and asserting a counterclaim for attorney fees.

On  October  11,  1996,  ITEX  Corporation  moved for  dismissal  of its  claims
(business  defamation,  unlawful trade practices and interference  with economic
relationships),  without prejudice,  against  defendants.  On that same date the
motion  was  granted  and  leave  granted  to file an  Amended  Complaint.  That
complaint  is styled  SLI,  Inc. v. Saul  Yarmak,  Stephen  Friedland,  Business
Exchange  International  Corp. and BX International,  Inc. The Amended Complaint
restates  the  claims  against  defendants  for  breach  of  contract,  specific
performance,  declaratory  judgment and fraud. By dismissing ITEX  Corporation's
claims without  prejudice,  ITEX may, if it chooses,  reinstitute its claims for
business  defamation,  unlawful trade practices and  interference  with economic
relationships.  Proceeding  under the Amended  Complaint  permitted an expedited
determination of the core contract issues raised,  that is, whether BXI breached
its contract with SLI by asserting  that the BXI Trade  Exchange is not an asset
of BXI. The defendants have asserted counterclaims for attorney's fees and fraud
against SLI in defendants' amended answer and counterclaims.

On December 20, 1996 SLI filed a motion for partial summary judgment  requesting
that the court rule as a matter of law that the contract is unambiguous and that
the defendants had breached the contract for sale of the 50% interest in the BXI
trade exchange.  If the court found in favor of SLI on these issues,  the motion
asked that the court declare that SLI is 50% owner of the company which owns the
BXI trade  exchange or,  alternatively,  order the  defendants  to take whatever
steps are necessary to transfer the assets of the BXI trade exchange to BXI.

On March 12, 1997 the court ruled from the bench and  granted  SLI's  motion for
partial summary judgment. A formal order has now been submitted to the court for
the actual entry of judgment.  Because the initial ruling by the court was oral,
a hearing on the form of the judgment has been set for April 4, 1997.

The financial outcome of the ruling in favor of SLI is presently unclear.  If it
results  in SLI  being  the 50%  owner of a  company  which  owns the BXI  trade
exchange,  SLI will be  expected  to share in the  successes  and growth of that
exchange.  However,  the litigation has resulted in some  uncertainty  about the
financial  conditions  of the BXI trade  exchange due to the inability of SLI to
obtain  operating  data  concerning  the  exchange.  Further  litigation  may be
necessary for SLI to fully enjoy the benefits of its acquisition.  However,  the
Company  considers  the  court's  ruling  to be a  complete  vindication  of the
position that ITEX

                                       26
 
Corporation has  consistently  taken in the face of allegations that BXI was not
the owner of the BXI trade exchange assets.

On  September  17,  1996 the Company  filed an action in the  Circuit  Court for
Multnomah   County,   Oregon,   against  Leslie  L.  French  and  Linda  French,
individually   and  dba  AlphaNet  and  AlphaNet,   Inc.,  an  inactive   Oregon
corporation.  The Complaint is for Breach of Contract and Action on Guaranty and
seeks a total of $89,726 on three claims.  On October 2, 1996,  defendants filed
an Answer denying all claims and a Counterclaim alleging malicious  prosecution,
abuse of  process,  invasion  of  privacy  and  libel.  The  counterclaim  seeks
compensatory  and  punitive  damages  of $5.5  million.  A Reply to  defendant's
counterclaims has been filed.

The Company  considers each counterclaim to be totally without merit and expects
each counterclaim to be dismissed.  Both the Company's claims and the defense of
the counterclaims is being vigorously prosecuted by the Company. A trial date is
scheduled  to be set on May 22,  1997.  As with all  litigation,  the  potential
outcome of this lawsuit is  uncertain.  However,  the Company  believes that its
claims  against  the  defendants  are   meritorious  and  that  the  defendants'
counterclaims  are wholly without merit. In any event,  this litigation does not
present  scenarios  which would be expected  to result in a  materially  adverse
effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

On June 28, 1996, the Company  announced in a press release that the Company was
the subject of an informal inquiry from the Securities and Exchange  Commission.
Subsequently,  the Company  received a subpoena  for the  production  of certain
documents  on  September  19,  1996,  pursuant  to a  formal  order  of  private
investigation. The Company is cooperating fully with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

On November  21,  1996,  the  Company  was served with a complaint  filed in the
Circuit Court for  Washington  County,  Oregon,  by William  Bradford  Financial
Services,  Inc.  against  the  Company;  Michael  Baer;  Graham  Norris;  Oxford
Transfer, Inc.; David Christensen,  C.P.A.;  Andersen,  Andersen & Strong, L.C.,
Donovan Snyder, and John Does I-III.  William Bradford Services is controlled by
Leslie  French,  plaintiff in the  litigation  described  above.  The  complaint
alleges  breach  of  fiduciary  duty,  breach  of  contract,  interference  with
contract, and fraud and seeks compensatory and punitive damages.

The Company  considers each of the claims in the complaint to be totally without
merit  and will  vigorously  defend  against  each and every  allegation  of the
complaint.  No answer has yet been filed by the Company. As with all litigation,
the potential outcome of this lawsuit is uncertain.  In any event, however, this
litigation  does not  present  scenarios  which would be expected to result in a
materially  adverse  effect on the  Company's  financial  position or results of
operations.

On February  14, 1997 the Company was served with a summons and  complaint  in a
matter filed in the Circuit Court of Multnomah County, Oregon entitled BXI Trade
Exchange,  Inc. and Business Exchange  International  Corp. v. ITEX Corporation,
Terry L.  Neal,  Michael  T. Baer.  Donovan  C.  Snyder,  Joel P. Sens and David
Lawson.  This action arises out of the basic fact situation  involved in the SLI
matter described above. The complaint contains seven claims for relief, only two
of which relate to the Company,  Mr.  Neal,  Mr. Baer and Mr.  Snyder (the "ITEX
defendants"). All other claims relate solely to Mr. Sens and Mr. Lawson.

                                       27
 
The claims  against  the ITEX  defendants  are for  conspiracy  to  defraud  and
unlawful trade practices under the Oregon unfair trade  practices  statute.  The
basic allegation is that the ITEX defendants  worked together secretly to obtain
the 50%  interest  in BXI.  The ITEX  defendants  consider  each and every claim
against  them to be  without  merit and will  vigorously  defend  against  those
claims.  As with all  litigation,  the  potential  outcome  of this  lawsuit  is
uncertain.  In any event,  however,  this litigation does not present  scenarios
which  would be  expected  to  result  in a  materially  adverse  effect  on the
Company's financial position or results of operations.

ITEM 6.  EXHIBITS AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

a.   Exhibits

      The Exhibits hereto are listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index.

b.  Reports on Form 8-K

             None

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company
has duly  caused  this  report  to be signed  on its  behalf by the  undersigned
thereunto duly authorized.

                                ITEX CORPORATION

March 31, 1997             /s/  Graham H. Norris
- ------------------------        ------------------------------------------------
         Date                   Graham H. Norris, Chairman of the Board of
                                Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer
                                (principal executive officer and director)

     March 31, 1997             /s/  Joseph M. Morris
- ------------------------        ------------------------------------------------
         Date                   Joseph M. Morris, Vice President and Chief 
                                Financial Officer (principal accounting officer
                                and director)

28

EXHBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT                                 DESCRIPTION
     ----------------------         --------------------------------------------

              27                    Financial Data Schedule for the Twenty-eight
                                    Weeks Ended February 12, 1997

29

<EX-27>
 2

</EX-27>

