<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060313_10-Q_edgar_data_900075_0001104659-06-016192_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>767617</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>120798</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>487020</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>21</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-016192.hdr.sgml : 20060313
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060313170751
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-016192
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060313
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060313

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COPART INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000900075
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-AUTO DEALERS & GASOLINE STATIONS [5500]
		IRS NUMBER:				942867490
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-23255
		FILM NUMBER:		06682749

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4665 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE
		CITY:			FAIRFIELD
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94534
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7076395000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4665 BUSINESS CENTER DRIVE
		CITY:			FAIRFIELD
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94534

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Tn+/M4+ezhNQAWMo1vCh7xpelzAYwazauvzYLFp1TVe4lkVbph2ZJ0bC/ujn6cyO
 TJqbL10iFVpE/Nz7x8+dCQ==

 0001104659-06-016192.txt : 20060313

10-Q
 1
 a06-6823_110q.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D)

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   WASHINGTON,
D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-Q   

COPART, INC.   

  (Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)  

California   

94-2867490   

(State or
  other jurisdiction  

(I.R.S.
  Employer  

of
  incorporation or organization)  

Identification
  Number)  

4665
Business Center Drive, Fairfield, CA 94534   

  (Address of principal executive
offices with zip code)  

Registrant s telephone number,
including area code:   (707) 639-5000    

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  

YES               NO    o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer.
See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  

Large Accelerated Filer               Accelerated
Filer    o         Non
- - Accelerated Filer    o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b   2 of the Exchange Act).  

YES     o         NO       

Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
as of March 10, 2006: 90,278,861  

Copart, Inc.
and Subsidiaries   

Index to
the Quarterly Report   

January 31,
2006   

Description   

PART I   Financial Information    

Item 1 - Financial Statements    

Consolidated
  Balance Sheets   

Consolidated
  Statements of Income   

Consolidated
  Statements of Cash Flows   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Item 2  
  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
  Operations    

Overview   

Acquisitions and New Operations   

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   

Results of Operations   

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

Factors That May Affect Future Results   

Item
  3   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

Item
  4   Controls and Procedures    

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
  Procedures   

Changes in Internal Controls   

PART II   Other Information    

Item 1   Legal Proceedings    

Item 1A   Risk Factors    

Item 2   Unregistered Sales of Equity
  Securities and Use of Proceeds    

Item 4     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
  Holders    

Item 6   Exhibits    

Signatures    

2  

Part 1 Financial
Information   

Item 1. Financial Statements   

Copart, Inc.
and Subsidiaries   

   Consolidated
  Balance Sheets   

   (in
thousands)   

   (Unaudited)   

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.  

3  

Copart, Inc.,
and Subsidiaries   

   Consolidated
  Statements of Income   

   (in
thousands except per share amounts)   

   (Unaudited)   

See accompanying notes to consolidated
financial statements.  

4  

Copart, Inc.
and Subsidiaries   

   Consolidated
Statements of   Cash Flows   

   (in
thousands)   

   (Unaudited)   

See accompanying notes to consolidated
financial statements.  

5  

Copart, Inc.
and Subsidiaries   

   Notes to   Consolidated Financial
Statements   

   January 31,
2006   

   (Unaudited)   

NOTE 1   General:  

Description of Business   

Copart, Inc.
and its subsidiaries ( the Company ) provide vehicle suppliers, primarily
insurance companies, with a full range of services to process and sell salvage
vehicles over the Internet through its Virtual Bidding Second Generation ( VB 2   )
Internet auction-style sales technology. The Company sells principally to
licensed vehicle dismantlers, rebuilders, repair licensees, used vehicle
dealers and exporters. Salvage vehicles are either damaged vehicles deemed a
total loss for insurance or business purposes or are recovered stolen vehicles
for which an insurance settlement with the vehicle owner has already been made.
The Company offers vehicle suppliers a full range of services that expedite
each stage of the salvage vehicle sales process and minimize administrative and
processing costs.  

Principles
of Consolidation   

In the opinion of the
management of the Company, the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial
statements contain all adjustments (which are normal recurring accruals)
necessary to present fairly its financial position as of January 31, 2006
and July 31, 2005, and its consolidated statements of income and cash
flows for the three months and six months ended January 31, 2006 and
January 31, 2005. Interim results for the six months ended
January 31, 2006, are not necessarily indicative of the results that may
be expected for the year ending July 31, 2006. The interim financial
statements should be read in conjunction with the Company s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2005. Certain
reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to the
current period presentation. The Company reclassified $32.4 million to assets
held for sale from property and equipment, goodwill and intangibles as of July
31, 2005. These reclassifications had no impact on the Company s results of
operations or cash flows.  

Use of Estimates   

The
preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported consolidated
results of operations during the reporting period. Estimates are used for, but
not limited to, vehicle pooling costs, allowance for doubtful accounts,
goodwill, income taxes, share-based compensation and long-lived assets. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.  

Income Taxes   

Income taxes
are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax
credit carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using
enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which
those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect
on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized
in income in the period that includes the enactment date.  

During the second
quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company identified an error in the way it
calculated certain deferred tax liabilities in 2001 and prior years. As a
result of this discovery, the Company recorded an out-of-period reduction to
deferred tax liabilities and income tax expense in the amount of $1.8 million. Without
this tax benefit, income from continuing operations for the three and six
months ended January 31, 2006 would have been $24.3 million and $46.9 million,
respectively. Basic income per share from continuing operations for the three
and six months ended January 31, 2006 would have been $0.27 and $0.52,
respectively. Diluted income per share from continuing operations would have
been $0.26 and $0.51 for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006,
respectively. Basic net income per share for the three and six months ended
January 31, 2006 would have been $0.07 and $0.32, respectively. Diluted
net income per share would have been $0.07 and $0.31 for the three and six
months ended January 31, 2006, respectively.  

6  

Note 2   Vehicle Pooling Costs:  

The Company
defers, in vehicle pooling costs, certain yard and fleet expenses associated
with vehicles consigned to and received by us but not sold as of the balance
sheet date. The Company quantifies the deferred costs using a calculation that
includes the number of vehicles at its facilities at the beginning and end of
the period, the number of vehicles sold during the period and an allocation of
certain yard and fleet expenses of the period. The primary expenses allocated
and deferred are certain facility costs, labor, transportation, and vehicle
processing. If its allocation factors change, then yard and fleet expenses
could increase or decrease correspondingly in the future. These costs are
expensed as vehicles are sold in the subsequent periods on an average cost
basis.  

The operating results for
the first and second quarters of 2006 were adversely affected by incremental
costs, characterized as  abnormal  in Financial Accounting Standards ( FAS )
151:  Inventory Costs,  incurred as a result of hurricanes Katrina and Rita. These
additional inventory-type costs, characterized as  abnormal  and charged to
yard operations costs, are estimated to be approximately $4.9 million and $9.5
million for the three and six month periods ended January 31, 2006, respectively.
These costs include the additional subhauling, payroll, equipment and
facilities expenses directly related to the operating conditions created by the
hurricanes and will continue. These costs do not include normal expenses
associated with the increased unit volume created by the hurricanes, which are
deferred until the sale of the units and are recognized as vehicle pooling
costs on the balance sheet. At the end of the quarter, approximately 90% of the
incremental salvage vehicles received as a result of the hurricanes remained
unsold and in inventory. The Company expects the majority of these vehicles to
be sold in the next three quarters. The processing of the hurricane vehicles
has had and may continue to have a negative impact on gross and operating
margin percentages.  

NOTE 3   Net Income Per Share:  

There were no
adjustments to net income in calculating diluted net income per share. The
table below reconciles basic weighted shares outstanding to diluted weighted
average shares outstanding   (in
thousands)  :  

Options to purchase
51,500 and 1,500 shares of common stock at a weighted average price of $24.54
and $24.25 per share were outstanding during the quarters ended
January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and 833,500 and 48,000 shares of
common stock at a weighted average price of $24.06 and $23.30 were outstanding
during the six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, but were
not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the
options  exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common
shares.  

NOTE 4 - Short-term
Investments:  

Short-term investments consist primarily of AAA rated auction rate
securities with readily determinable fair market values and with original maturities
in excess of three months. Auction rate securities are principally variable
rate securities tied to short-term interest rates. Auction rate securities have
interest rate resets through a modified Dutch auction, at predetermined
short-term intervals, usually every 7, 28 or 35 days. They trade at par and are
callable at par on any interest payment date at the option of the issuer.
Interest paid during a given period is based upon the interest rate determined
during the prior auction. Although these instruments are issued and rated as
long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term securities
because of the liquidity provided through the interest rate reset  .  

The Company has classified its entire
investment portfolio as available-for-sale. The Company views its
available-for-sale securities as available for use in its current operations. Accordingly,
the Company has classified all investments as short-term, even though the
stated maturity may be one year or more beyond the current balance sheet date. Available-for-sale
securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses
reported as a component of shareholders  equity. Unrealized losses are charged
against income when a decline in the fair market value of an individual
security is determined to be other than temporary. Realized gains and losses on
investments are included in interest income.  

7  

Short-term investments
consist of the following (in thousands):  

Note 5 - Discontinued Operations and Goodwill
Impairment  

During the three months ended January 31, 2006 the Company adopted a
formal plan to discontinue the operations of its public auction business Motors
Auction Group ( MAG ) and dispose of or convert the related assets. The
MAG yards to be converted into salvage facilities will continue to be included
in the results of continuing operations on the income statements. The assets of
the MAG locations to be disposed of have been classified as assets held for
sale in the balance sheets as of January 31, 2006 and 2005 pursuant to Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144  Accounting for the Impairment
or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets .  

Under SFAS No 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  goodwill
is subject to at least an annual assessment for impairment by applying a fair
value-based test  or on an interim basis if certain indicators are
present . The discontinuation of
an operating segment is one of those indicators. Accordingly, goodwill was tested
for impairment in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142 as of the
second quarter of 2006. The Company used a combination of valuation techniques,
which included consideration of market-based approaches and an income approach,
in determining the fair value of the Company s applicable reporting unit in the
interim impairment test of goodwill. 

The
impairment test indicated that the carrying value of the MAG assets exceeded
their implied fair values. The corresponding write-down of goodwill of $21.8
million to its fair value was reported as a component of discontinued
operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. The Company
also determined that the value of the remaining MAG covenants not to compete
were impaired and recorded an impairment expense in the amount of $0.5 million.
This write-down of covenants not to compete is also reported as a component of
discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.  

Summarized
financial information for MAG is set forth below (in thousands):  

NOTE 6   Acquisitions  

During
the six months ended January 31, 2006 the Company acquired the assets of two
vehicle salvage disposal companies. These two companies consisted of six
separate facilities. Aggregate consideration for the acquisitions consisted of
$22.4 million in cash. During the six months ended January 31, 2005 the Company
made no acquisitions.  

The results of operations of the
acquired facilities have been included in the Company s consolidated financial
statements from their respective acquisition dates.  

The acquired net assets consisted of accounts and advance
receivables, vehicle costs, goodwill and covenants not to compete.  The
acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. 
The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net
identifiable assets acquired of $18.8 million has been recorded as
goodwill.  The Company estimates that the entire goodwill balance relating
to these acquisitions will be deductible for tax purposes.  In addition
the Company paid $1.2 million for covenants not to compete relating to these
acquisitions, which are being amortized over five years.  

Pro
forma financial information for these acquisitions did not result in a
significant change from actual results for the quarter or six months ended January 31,
2006.  

8  

NOTE 7   Goodwill and Intangible Assets  

The change in the
carrying amount of goodwill is as follows (in thousands):  

The goodwill balances
above exclude the reclassification of goodwill related to the discontinued
operations as discussed in note 5 above.  

The following table sets forth intangible
assets by major asset class as of the dates indicated   (in
thousands)  :  

Aggregate amortization
expense on intangible assets was $0.3 million and $0.5 million for the six
months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The average life of the
covenants not to compete is approximately five years. Estimated amortization
expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years is as follows   (in thousands)  :  

NOTE 8   Stock-Based Compensation:  

In December 2001,
the Company adopted the Copart, Inc. 2001 Stock Option Plan ( Plan ),
presently covering an aggregate of 4.5 million shares of the Company s Common
Stock. The Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options to employees
and non-qualified stock options to employees, officers, directors and
consultants at prices not less than 100% and 85% of the fair market value for
incentive and non-qualified stock options, respectively, as determined by the
Board of Directors at the grant date. Incentive and non-qualified stock options
may have terms of up to ten years and vest over periods determined by the Board
of Directors. Options generally vest ratably over a five-year period. The Plan
replaced the Company s 1992 Stock Option Plan ( 1992 Plan ), which expired in
August 2002. The 1992 Plan had the same terms as the Plan.  

The
Copart, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ESPP ) provides for the
purchase of up to an aggregate of 1.5 million shares of Common Stock of the
Company by employees pursuant to the terms of the ESPP. The Company s ESPP was
adopted by the Board of Directors and approved by the shareholders in 1994.
Under the ESPP, employees of the Company who elect to participate have the
right to purchase common stock at a 15 percent discount from the lower of
the market value of the common stock at the beginning or the end of each six
month offering period. The ESPP permits an enrolled employee to make
contributions to purchase shares of common stock by having withheld from their
salary an amount up to 10 percent of their compensation (which amount may
be increased from time to time by the Company but may not exceed 15% of
compensation). No employee may purchase more than $25,000 worth of common stock
(calculated at the time the purchase right is granted) in any calendar year.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors administers the ESPP.  

On August 1, 2005, the Company adopted
the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
No. 123(R) (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payments , or SFAS 123(R),
requiring it to recognize expense related to the fair value of its share-based
compensation awards. The Company elected to use the modified prospective
transition method as permitted by SFAS 123(R) and therefore have not restated its
financial results for prior periods. Under this transition method, share-based
compensation expense for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006
includes compensation expense for all share-based compensation awards granted
prior to, but not yet vested as of August 1, 2005, based on the grant-date
fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123  Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation , net of estimated forfeitures. Share-based
compensation   

9  

expense for all share-based
compensation awards granted subsequent to August 1, 2005 was based on the
grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS
123(R). For options issued subsequent to August 1, 2005 we recognize compensation
expense for stock option awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite
service period of the award.  For options
issued prior to August 1, 2005 we recognize compensation expense for stock
option awards on a graded vesting basis over the requisite service period of
the award.  

The following table sets forth the total share-based compensation expense resulting from stock options and non-vested stock awards, included in our Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands):           

As a result of adopting SFAS 123(R) on August 1, 2005, the Company s net income for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006, was $0.6 million and $1.1 million, respectively, lower than if it had continued to account for share-based compensation under Opinion 25. If the Company had not adopted SFAS 123(R), basic earnings per share for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 would have been $0.09 and $0.35 as compared to $0.09 and $0.34. If the Company had not adopted SFAS 123(R), diluted earnings per share for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 would have been $0.09 and $0.34 as compared to $0.08 and $0.33.  

10  

Net cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options were $1.4 million and $0.3 million for the three months and $3.1 million and $0.6 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006, and January 31, 2005, respectively. We realized an income tax benefit of $0.3 million and $0.02 million from stock option exercises during the three months and $0.9 million and $0.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006, and January 31, 2005, respectively. In accordance with SFAS 123(R), we present excess tax benefits from disqualifying dispositions of the exercise of incentive stock options, vested prior to August 1, 2005, if any, as financing cash flows rather than operating cash flows.         Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we applied SFAS 123, amended by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure  (SFAS 148), which allowed companies to apply the existing accounting rules under APB 25 and related interpretations. In general, as the exercise price of options granted under these plans was equal to the market price of the underlying common stock on the grant date, no share-based employee compensation cost was recognized in our net income. As required by SFAS 148 prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we provided pro forma net income and pro forma net income per common share disclosures for share-based awards, as if the fair-value-based method defined in SFAS 123 had been applied.         The following table illustrates the effect on net income after tax and net income per common share as if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 to share-based compensation during the three and six month periods ended January 31, 2005 (in thousands, except per share amounts):       

The fair value of
stock-based awards was estimated using the Black-Scholes model with the
following assumptions for the six months ended January 31, 2006 and
January 31, 2005, respectively:  

Expected
Term - The Company s expected term represents the period that the Company s
stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding and was determined based on
historical experience of similar awards, giving consideration to the
contractual terms of the share-based awards, vesting schedules and expectations
of future employee behavior as influenced by changes to the terms of its
share-based awards.  

11  

Expected
Volatility   The Company uses the trading history and implied volatility of its
common stock in determining an estimated volatility factor when using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing formula to determine the fair value of options
granted.  

Expected
Dividend   The Company has not declared dividends. Therefore, the Company uses
a zero value for the expected dividend value factor when using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing formula to determine the fair value of options granted.  

Risk-Free
Interest Rate - The Company bases the risk-free interest rate used in the
Black-Scholes valuation method on the implied yield currently available on U.S.
Treasury zero-coupon issues with the same or substantially equivalent remaining
term.  

Estimated
Forfeitures - When estimating forfeitures, the Company considers voluntary and
involuntary termination behavior as well as analysis of actual option
forfeitures.  

Stock option activity for the six months ended
January 31, 2006, is as follows:  

The aggregate intrinsic
value in the table above represents the total pretax intrinsic value (i.e., the
difference between the Company s closing stock price on the last trading day of
the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and the exercise price, times the number of
shares) that would have been received by the option holders had all option
holders exercised their options on January 31, 2006. This amount changes
based on the fair market value of our stock. Total intrinsic value of options
exercised was $2.5 million and $0.6 million for the six months ended
January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

As required by SFAS
123(R), the Company made an estimate of expected forfeitures and is recognizing
compensation cost only for those equity awards expected to vest.  

As of January 31,
2006, $9.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock
options is expected to be recognized over a weighted average term of 3.4 years.  

As of January 31,
2006, the amount of shares under the various plans is sufficient to cover
future stock option exercises. The Company, will issue new shares of common
stock to satisfy such future exercises.  

NOTE 9   Common Stock Repurchases:  

In February 2003, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the
Company to repurchase up to nine million shares of its Common Stock. The
repurchases may be effected through solicited or unsolicited transactions in
the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. No time limit has been
placed on the duration of the share repurchase program. The repurchases will be
made at such times and in such amounts, as the Company deems appropriate and
may be discontinued at any time. The Company repurchased 366,000 shares during
the six months ended January 31, 2006 at a weighted average price of $24.24. As
of January 31, 2006, the Company had repurchased a total of 4.0 million shares
at a weighted average price of $9.92. Five million shares remain authorized for
repurchase.  

NOTE 10   Comprehensive Income:  

The following table
reconciles net income to comprehensive income (in thousands):  

12  

Note 11   Recent
Accounting Pronouncements:  

In November 2003,
the EITF reached an interim consensus on EITF 03-01,  The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments,  to
require additional disclosure requirements for securities classified as
available-for-sale or held-to-maturity for fiscal years ending after
December 15, 2003. In March 2004, the EITF reached a final consensus
on this issue, to provide additional guidance, which companies must follow in
determining whether investment securities have an impairment which should be
considered other-than-temporary. In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB
Staff Position ( FSP ) SFAS No. 115-1 and SFAS 124-1,  The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. 
The FSP provides further guidance on the determination as to when an investment
is considered impaired, whether the impairment is other than temporary and the
measurement of an impairment loss. The FSP is effective for reporting periods beginning
after December 15, 2005.  

In May 2005, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  ( SFAS
No. 154 ), which replaces Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion
No. 20,  Accounting Changes,  and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting Accounting
Changes in Interim Financial Statements.  SFAS No. 154 provides guidance
on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error
corrections. It requires retrospective application to prior periods  financial
statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to
determine either the period-specific effect or the cumulative effect of the
change. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections
of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005.  

Note 12   Investment in Unconsolidated
Entity:  

During the three
months ended October 31, 2005 the Company committed to invest $9.0 million for
a 50% equity interest in a limited liability corporation (the  LLC ) of which
$3.0 million was contributed during the three months ended October 31, 2005 and
$6.0 million was contributed during the three months ended January 31, 2006. The
Company has no further contractual funding commitment.  Based on the
Company s evaluation of the LLC and related agreements, management believes the
LLC does not constitute a Variable Interest Entity as defined in FASB
Interpretation No.46,      Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities .  As a result, the Company s investment has
been accounted for under the equity method prescribed by Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 18,  The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in
Common Stock   .    

Note 13   Legal Proceedings:  

The Company is
involved in litigation and damage claims arising in the ordinary course of
business, such as actions related to injuries, property damage, handling or
disposal of vehicles and patent infringement. The Company is also involved in
various governmental and administrative proceedings primarily relating to
licensing and operation of our business. Among this litigation is a lawsuit
filed by Ciano Dessources on May 21, 2003 in the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, Superior Court Department against Copart of
Connecticut, Inc. and Copart, Inc., which purports to be a class
action on behalf of persons whose vehicles were disposed of by the Company as
abandoned vehicles, and which the named plaintiff contends were disposed of
without complying with state laws. Relief sought included class certification,
declaratory, remedial and/or injunctive relief, including the ordering of a
compliance program that will essentially protect consumers, as well as damages,
fees, and costs. Copart s Motion for Summary Judgment was granted on
December 8, 2004, dismissing the class claim element of the lawsuit.
However this dismissal may be reconsidered, and may also be appealed once the
remaining individual claims of the named plaintiff are adjudicated.  

On
June 10, 2005, Manheim Services Corp. filed suit against Copart, Inc.
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia,
Atlanta Division, alleging infringement of Manheim s assigned patent (U.S.
Patent No. 5,774,873).  Relief sought included a patent infringement
judgment, an injunction prohibiting the Company from using any infringing
product or service (including VB 2  ), damages, fees,
costs and expenses. On August 3, 2005, the Company denied the claim
and asserted counterclaims based on violations of antitrust laws and common-law
tortious interference         (the  Competition
Claims ). On February 10, 2006, the District Court denied Manheim s motion to
bifurcate the Competition Claims and stayed discovery on the Competition Claims
through April 13, 2006. Additionally, on February 6, 2006, Manheim requested
the Court to grant it leave to assert its additional alleged claims of
infringement by the Company of Manheim s assigned U.S. Patent No. 6,006,201.    No
trial date has yet been set. 

On
September 16, 2005, Richard M. Gray filed suit against Copart and A.
Safrin, in the State Court for the County of Chatham, State of Georgia,
alleging a class action for unreasonable amounts claimed for storage liens by
the Company, and related claims.  Relief sought included class
certification, damages, fees, costs and expenses. On October 20, 2005, the
Company denied the claims. No trial date has been set.  

The Company provides for costs relating to these matters when a loss is
probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The effect of the outcome
of these matters on the Company s future results of operations cannot be
predicted because any such effect depends on future results of operations, and
the amount and timing of the resolution of such matters. The Company believes
that any ultimate liability will not have a material effect on its financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. However, the amount of the
liabilities associated with these claims cannot be determined with certainty,
if any.  

13  

ITEM 2.                       MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

This report contains
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such
as  may,   will,   should,   expect,   plan,   intend,   forecast,   anticipate, 
 believe,   estimate,   predict,   potential,   continue  or the negative of
these terms or other comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements
contained in this report involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
situations that may cause our or our industry s actual results, level of
activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any
future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or
implied by these statements. These factors include those listed under the
caption  Factors That May Affect Future Results  beginning on page 21
of this report and those discussed elsewhere in this report. We encourage
investors to review these factors carefully.   

Although we believe that, based on
information currently available to Copart and its management, the expectations
reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee
future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not
place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.   

Overview   

We provide
vehicle suppliers, primarily insurance companies, with a full range of services
to process and sell salvage vehicles over the Internet through our Virtual
Bidding Second Generation ( VB 2   ) Internet auction
style sales technology. We sell principally to licensed vehicle dismantlers,
rebuilders, repair licensees, used vehicle dealers and exporters. Salvage
vehicles are either damaged vehicles deemed a total loss for insurance or
business purposes or are recovered stolen vehicles for which an insurance
settlement with the vehicle owner has already been made. We offer vehicle
suppliers a full range of services that expedite each stage of the salvage
vehicle sales process and minimize administrative and processing costs. We
generate revenues primarily from fees paid by vehicle suppliers and vehicle
buyers as well as related fees for services such as towing and storage.  

At
the election of the vehicle supplier, we sell vehicles pursuant to our
Percentage Incentive Program ( PIP ) consignment basis or on a fixed fee
consignment basis. Under the PIP program, we agree to sell all of the salvage
vehicles of a vehicle supplier in a specified market usually for a
predetermined percentage of the vehicle sales price. Under our fixed fee
consignment program, we sell vehicles for a fixed consignment fee. Although
sometimes included in the consignment fee, we may also charge additional fees
for the cost of transporting the vehicle to our facility, storage of the
vehicle, and other incidental costs.  

Our revenues
consist of salvage fees charged to vehicle suppliers and vehicle buyers,
transportation revenue and purchased vehicle revenues. Salvage fees from
vehicle suppliers include sales fees under PIP agreements and fixed fee
programs where we charge for title processing, special preparation, storage and
selling. Salvage fees also include fees charged to vehicle buyers for
purchasing vehicles, storage and annual registration. Transportation revenue
includes charges to suppliers for towing vehicles under certain contracts.
Transportation revenue also includes towing charges assessed to buyers for
delivering vehicles. Purchased vehicle revenues are comprised of the price that
buyers paid at our sales for vehicles processed that we own.  

Costs
attributable to yard and fleet expenses consist primarily of operating
personnel (which includes yard management, clerical and yard employees), rent, contract
vehicle towing, insurance, fuel, equipment maintenance and repair, and costs of
vehicles we sold under purchase contracts. Costs associated with general and
administrative expenses consist primarily of executive management, accounting,
data processing, sales personnel, human resources, professional fees, research
and development and marketing expenses.  

During fiscal 2004, we converted all of our salvage vehicle auction
facilities to an Internet based auction-style model using our VB 2  
Internet sales technology. This process employs a two-step bidding process. The
first step, called the preliminary bid, allows buyers to submit bids up to one
hour before a real time virtual action begins. The second step allows buyers to
bid against each other, and the high bidder from the preliminary bidding
process, in a real time process over the Internet.  

The period-to-period comparability of our
operating results and financial condition is substantially affected by business
acquisitions and new openings made by us during such periods.  

Acquisitions and New Operations   

We have experienced significant growth as we
have acquired or opened 22 facilities since the beginning of fiscal 2004. All
of the acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.  

14  

As part of our
overall expansion strategy of offering integrated service to vehicle suppliers,
we anticipate acquiring and developing facilities in new regions, as well as
the regions currently served by our facilities. As part of this strategy, in
fiscal 2006, we acquired facilities in or near Fruitland, Maryland; Altoona,
Pennsylvania; Chambersburg, Pennsylvania; York Haven, Pennsylvania; Greenwood,
Nebraska and Grand Island, Nebraska and opened new facilities in Lansing,
Michigan and Honolulu, Hawaii. In fiscal 2005 we acquired new facilities in or
near Lexington, Kentucky and Columbia, Missouri and opened new facilities in
Strongsville, Ohio; Ocala, Florida; Knoxville, Tennessee; Loganville, Georgia;
Spokane, Washington; Tallahassee, Florida; and Hialeah, Florida. In fiscal 2004
we acquired new facilities in or near Eugene, Oregon; Cleveland, Ohio; and
Anchorage, Alaska and opened new facilities in or near Toronto, Canada and
Helena, Montana. We believe that these acquisitions and openings strengthen our
coverage as we have 120 facilities located in North America and are able to
provide national coverage for our suppliers.  

We seek to
increase revenues and profitability by, among other things, (i) acquiring
and developing new salvage vehicle storage facilities in key markets,
(ii) pursuing national and regional vehicle supply agreements,
(iii) expanding our service offerings to suppliers and buyers and
(iv) expanding the application of VB 2   into new
markets. In addition, we implement our pricing structure and merchandising
procedures and attempt to effect cost efficiencies at each of our acquired
facilities by implementing our operational procedures, integrating our
management information systems and redeploying personnel, when necessary.  

Critical Accounting
Policies and Estimates   

The
preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates
and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues
and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to
vehicle pooling costs, allowance for doubtful accounts, goodwill, income taxes,
long-lived assets and self insured liabilities. We base our estimates on
historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for
making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are
not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  

Management
has discussed the selection of critical accounting policies and estimates with
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has
reviewed our disclosure relating to critical accounting policies and estimates
in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The following is a summary of the
more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements:  

Revenue Recognition    

We
provide a portfolio of services to our sellers and buyers that facilitate the
sale and delivery of a vehicle from seller to buyer. These services include the
ability to use our internet sales technology and vehicle delivery, loading,
title processing, preparation and storage. We evaluate multiple-element
arrangements relative to our buyer and seller agreements in accordance with
Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-21,   Revenue Arrangements with Multiple
Deliverables   ( EITF 00-21 ), which addresses accounting for
multiple-element arrangements, and Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104,   Revenue Recognition   ( SAB104 ), which
addresses revenue recognition for units of accounting.  

The
services we provide to the seller of a vehicle involve disposing of a vehicle
on the seller s behalf and under most of our current contracts, collecting the
proceeds from the buyer. We are not entitled to any such seller fees until we
have collected the sales proceeds from the buyer for the seller and,
accordingly, we recognize revenue for seller services after service delivery
and cash collection.  

In
certain cases, seller fees are not contingent upon collection of the seller
proceeds from the buyer. However, we determined that we are not able to
separate the services into separate units of accounting because we do not have
fair value for undelivered items. As a result, we do not recognize seller fees
until the final seller service has been delivered, which generally occurs upon
collection of the sales proceeds from the buyer for the seller.  

We
provide a number of services to the buyer of the vehicle, charging a separate
fee for each service. Each of these services has been assessed under the
criteria of EITF 00-21 to determine whether we have met the requirements
to separate them into units of accounting within a multi-element arrangement.
We have concluded that the auction service and the post-auction services are
separate units of accounting. The fees for the auction service are recognized
upon completion of the auction, and the fees for the post-auction services are
recognized upon successful completion of those services using the residual
method.  

We
also charge buyers an annual registration fee for the right to participate in
our vehicle sales program, which is recognized ratably over the term of the
arrangement, and relist and late-payment fees, which are recognized upon
receipt of payment by the buyer. No provision for returns has been established,
as all sales are final with no right of return, although we provide for bad
debt expense in the case of non-performance by our buyers and sellers.  

15  

Vehicle Pooling Costs    

We defer, in
vehicle pooling costs, certain yard and fleet expenses associated with vehicles
consigned to and received by us but not sold as of the balance sheet date. We
quantify the deferred costs using a calculation that includes the number of
vehicles at our facilities at the beginning and end of the period, the number
of vehicles sold during the period and an allocation of certain yard and fleet
expenses of the period. The primary expenses allocated and deferred are certain
facility costs, labor, transportation, and vehicle processing. If our
allocation factors change, then yard and fleet expenses could increase or
decrease correspondingly in the future. These costs are expensed as vehicles
are sold in the subsequent periods on an average cost basis.  

We apply the provisions of
Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ), SFAS No. 151,  Inventory
Costs  ( SFAS 151 ) to our vehicle pooling costs. SFAS 151 requires that
items such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight and
rehandling costs be recognized as current-period charges regardless of whether
they meet the criteria of  so abnormal  as provided in Accounting Research
Bulletin No. 43, Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing.  In addition,
SFAS 151 requires that the allocation of fixed production overheads to the
costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of production facilities.
The adoption of SFAS 151 increased yard expenses in the three- and
six-month periods ended January 31, 2006 as the Company incurred additional
subhauling, payroll, equipment, and facilities costs associated with hurricanes
Katrina and Rita.  

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts    

We maintain an
allowance for doubtful accounts in order to provide for estimated losses
resulting from disputed amounts billed to suppliers or buyers and the inability
of our suppliers or buyers to make required payments. If billing disputes
exceed expectations and/or if the financial condition of our suppliers or
buyers were to deteriorate, additional allowances may be required.  

Valuation of Goodwill and Intangibles    

We evaluate
separately the impairment of goodwill of our salvage and our public sales
operating segments, annually (or on an interim basis if certain indicators are
present) by comparing the fair value of the operating segment to its carrying
value. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of
an operating segment could result in an inability to recover the carrying value
of the investment, thereby requiring impairment charges in the future.  

Deferred Tax Assets    

We evaluate the
realizability of our deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis. Generally
accepted accounting principles require the assessment of the Company s
performance and other relevant factors when determining the need for a
valuation allowance with respect to these deferred tax assets. The Company s
ability to realize deferred tax assets is dependent on its ability to generate
future taxable income. Accordingly, the Company has established a valuation
allowance when, in certain taxable jurisdictions, the utilization of the tax
asset is uncertain. Additional timing differences, future earning trends and/or
tax strategies may occur which could warrant a need for establishing an
additional valuation allowance or a reserve.  

We are also
required to estimate income tax provisions and amounts ultimately payable or
recoverable in numerous jurisdictions. Such estimates involve significant
interpretations of regulations and are inherently very complex. Resolution of
income tax treatments in individual jurisdictions may not be known for many
years after completion of any fiscal year.  

Long-lived Asset Valuation    

We evaluate
long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets is measured by a comparison of
the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows
expected to be generated by the asset. If the estimated undiscounted cash flows
change in the future, we may be required to reduce the carrying amount of an
asset.  

Share-Based Compensation    

We account for
our share-based awards to employees and non-employees using the fair value
method as required by SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) requires that the
compensation cost related to share-based payment transactions, measured based
on the fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued, be recognized
in the financial statements. Determining the fair value of options using the
Black-Scholes model, or other currently accepted option valuation models,
requires highly subjective assumptions, including future stock price volatility
and expected time until exercise, which greatly affect the calculated fair
value on the grant date. If actual results are not consistent with the Company s
assumptions and judgments used in estimating the key assumptions, the Company
may be required to record additional compensation or income tax expense, which
could have a material impact on financial position and results of operations.  

Retained Insurance Liabilities    

We are
partially self-insured for certain losses related to medical, general
liability, workers  compensation and auto liability. Our liability represents
an estimate of the ultimate cost of claims incurred as of the balance sheet
date. The estimated liability is not discounted and is established based upon
analysis of historical data and actuarial estimates. While we believe these
estimates are reasonable based on the information currently available, if actual
trends, including the severity of claims and medical cost inflation, differ
from our estimates, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows
could be impacted.  

16  

Results of Operations   

Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 Compared
to Three Months Ended January 31, 2005    

Revenues were approximately $125.1 million
during the three months ended January 31, 2006, an increase of
approximately $17.4 million, or 16.2%, over the three months ended January 31,
2005. The increase was due to increased vehicle sales volume and increased
revenue per transaction driven by increased auction proceeds per vehicle. The
increase in gross proceeds per vehicle (the gross sales price of the vehicle at
auction) yields higher revenue per car as buyer fees and certain seller fees,
including those sold under the PIP program are based on the gross proceeds per
vehicle and generally increase as gross proceeds per vehicle grow. We believe
the increase in proceeds per vehicle was the result of the impact of VB  2 , which allows more buyers to participate in the auctions.
Existing facilities contributed approximately $8.8 million of the revenue
growth and new facilities in or near Ocala, Florida; Knoxville, Tennessee;
Lexington, Kentucky; Loganville, Georgia; Spokane, Washington; Tallahassee,
Florida; Columbia, Missouri; Honolulu, Hawaii; Greenwood, Nebraska; Grand
Island, Nebraska; York Haven, Pennsylvania; Chambersburg, Pennsylvania;
Altoona, Pennsylvania; Fruitland, Maryland and Lansing, Michigan contributed
approximately $8.6 million of revenue growth. 

Yard expenses were approximately $74.5
million during the three months ended January 31, 2006, an increase of
approximately $14.5 million, or 24.1%, over the three months ended January 31,
2005. Yard expenses increased to 59.6% of revenues during the three months
ended January 31, 2006, as compared to 55.7% of revenues during the three
months ended January 31, 2005. The increases in yard expenses were
primarily attributable to the cost of handling increased volume, a general
increase in subhauling costs and the incremental abnormal costs incurred as a
result of hurricanes Katrina and Rita. These additional inventory-type costs
were approximately $4.9 million in the three months ended January 31, 2006
and were charged to yard operations in accordance with SFAS 151. These costs
include the additional subhauling, payroll, equipment and facilities expenses
directly related to the operating conditions created by the hurricanes and will
continue. These costs do not include normal expenses associated with the
increased unit volume created by the hurricanes, which are deferred until the
sale of the units and are recognized as vehicle pooling costs on the balance
sheet. At the end of the quarter, approximately 90% of the incremental salvage
vehicles received as a result of the hurricanes remained unsold and in
inventory. We expect the majority of these vehicles to be sold in the next
three quarters. The processing of the hurricane vehicles has had and may continue
to have a negative impact on gross and operating margin percentages.  

General and administrative expenses were
approximately $13.6 million during the three months ended January 31,
2006, an increase of approximately $2.4 million, or 21.4%, over the three
months ended January 31, 2005. The increase was primarily due to increases
in telecommunication costs, information technology payroll costs, SFAS 123(R)
stock compensation costs, outside legal expense associated with pending
litigation and general corporate expansion. General and administrative expenses
increased to 10.8% of revenues during the three months ended January 31,
2006, as compared to 10.4% of revenues during the three months ended January 31,
2005.  

Total other income was approximately $1.7 million during the three months
ended January 31, 2006, a decrease of approximately $0.1 million, from the
three months ended January 31, 2005. The decrease was due primarily to a
$0.8 million equity method loss recognized from an equity investment in an
unconsolidated privately-held entity.   We expect to recognize additional equity
method losses on this investment as the entity incurs development stage
operating losses.   This loss was offset by an increase in interest income of approximately
$0.8 million due to higher interest rates and a higher average cash balance. Other
income, which consists primarily of rental income and gain on the sale of non
fleet assets, decreased approximately $0.2 million.  

Our effective combined federal, state and
local income tax rates for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and
2005 was approximately 32.6% and 38.8%, respectively. The decrease in effective
tax rate is primarily the result of recording a $1.8 million out-of-period
reduction to deferred tax liabilities and income tax expense originating
primarily in 2001 and prior years.  

17  

During the three months ended January 31,
2006 we adopted a formal plan to discontinue the operations of our public
auction business Motors Auction Group ( MAG ) and dispose of or convert the
related assets. The MAG yards to be converted into salvage facilities
will continue to be included in the results of continuing operations on the
income statements. The assets of the MAG locations to be disposed of have been
classified as assets held for sale in the balance sheets as of January 31,
2006 and 2005 pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144
 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets .  

Under SFAS No 142,  Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets,  goodwill is subject to at least an annual
assessment for impairment by applying a fair value-based test  or on an
interim basis if certain indicators are present . The discontinuation of an operating segment is one of those
indicators. Accordingly, goodwill was tested for impairment in accordance with
the provisions of SFAS No. 142 as of the second quarter of 2006. We
used a combination of valuation techniques, which included consideration of
market-based approaches and an income approach, in determining the fair value
of our applicable reporting unit in the interim impairment test of goodwill. 

The impairment test
indicated that the carrying value of the MAG assets exceeded their implied fair
values. The corresponding write-down of goodwill of $21.8 million to its fair
value was reported as a component of discontinued operations in the
accompanying consolidated statements of income. We also determined that the value
of the remaining MAG covenants not to compete were impaired and recorded an
impairment expense in the amount of $0.5 million. This write-down of covenants
not to compete is also reported as a component of discontinued operations in
the accompanying consolidated statements of income.  

Due to the foregoing
factors, we realized net income of approximately $7.9 million for the three
months ended January 31, 2006, compared to net income of approximately
$23.5 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005.  

Six Months Ended January 31, 2006 Compared to
Six Months Ended January 31, 2005    

Revenues were approximately $241.8 million
during the six months ended January 31, 2006, an increase of approximately
$32.5 million, or 15.5%, over the six months ended January 31, 2005. The
increase was due to increased vehicle sales volume and increased revenue per
transaction driven by increased auction proceeds per vehicle. The increase in
gross proceeds per vehicle (the gross sales price of the vehicle at auction) yields
higher revenue per car as buyer fees and certain seller fees, including those
sold under the PIP program are based on the gross proceeds per vehicle and
generally increase as gross proceeds per vehicle grow. We believe the increase
in proceeds per vehicle was primarily the result of the impact of VB  2 , which allows more buyers to participate in the auctions.
Existing facilities contributed approximately $19.2 million of the revenue
growth and new facilities in or near Strongsville, Ohio; Anchorage, Alaska;
Ocala, Florida; Knoxville, Tennessee; Lexington, Kentucky; Loganville, Georgia;
Spokane, Washington; Tallahassee, Florida; Columbia, Missouri; Honolulu,
Hawaii; Greenwood, Nebraska; Grand Island, Nebraska; York Haven, Pennsylvania;
Chambersburg, Pennsylvania; Altoona, Pennsylvania; Fruitland, Maryland and
Lansing, Michigan contributed approximately $13.3 million of revenue growth. 

Yard expenses were approximately $143.7 million during the six months
ended January 31, 2006, an increase of approximately $26.2 million, or
22.3%, over the six months ended January 31, 2005. Yard expenses increased
to 59.4% of revenues during the six months ended January 31, 2006, as
compared to 56.1% of revenues during the six months ended January 31, 2005.
The increases in yard expenses were primarily attributable to the cost of
handling increased volume, a general increase in subhauling costs and the
incremental   abnormal costs incurred as a result of hurricanes Katrina
and Rita. These additional inventory-type costs were approximately $9.5 million
in the six months ended January 31, 2006 and were charged to yard
operations in accordance with SFAS 151.   These costs include the additional subhauling, payroll,
equipment and facilities expenses directly related to the operating conditions
created by the hurricanes and will continue. These costs do not include normal
expenses associated with the increased unit volume created by the hurricanes,
which are deferred until the sale of the units and are recognized as vehicle
pooling costs on the balance sheet. At the end of the quarter, approximately
90% of the incremental salvage vehicles received as a result of the hurricanes
remained unsold and in inventory. We expect the majority of these vehicles to
be sold in the next three quarters. The processing of the hurricane vehicles
has had and may continue to have a negative impact on gross and operating
margin percentages.  

General and administrative expenses were
approximately $27.1 million during the six months ended January 31, 2006,
an increase of approximately $6.6 million, or 32.3%, over the six months ended January 31,
2005. The increase was primarily due to increases in telecommunication costs,
information technology payroll costs, costs relating to Sarbanes-Oxley
compliance, SFAS 123(R) stock compensation costs, outside legal expense
associated with pending litigation and general corporate expansion. General and
administrative expenses increased slightly to 11.2% of revenues during the six
months ended January 31, 2006, as compared to 9.8% of revenues during the
six months ended January 31, 2005.  

18  

Total other income was approximately $4.1
million during the six months ended January 31, 2006, an increase of
approximately $0.3 million, from the six months ended January 31, 2005. The
increase was due primarily to interest income of approximately $1.8 million due
to higher interest rates and a higher average cash balance. This increase was
offset by a $0.8 million equity method loss recognized from an equity
investment in an unconsolidated privately-held entity. We expect to recognize
additional equity method losses on this investment as the entity incurs
development stage operating losses. Other income, which consists primarily of
rental income and gain on the sale of non fleet assets, decreased approximately
$0.6 million.  

Our effective combined federal, state and
local income tax rates for the six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005
was approximately 35.2% and 38.8%, respectively. The decrease in effective tax
rate is primarily the result of recording a $1.8 million out-of-period
reduction to deferred tax liabilities and income tax expense originating
primarily in 2001 and prior years.  

During the three months ended January 31,
2006 we adopted a formal plan to discontinue the operations of our public
auction business Motors Auction Group ( MAG ) and dispose of or convert the
related assets. The MAG yards to be converted into salvage facilities
will continue to be included in the results of continuing operations on the
income statements. The assets of the MAG locations to be disposed of have been
classified as assets held for sale in the balance sheets as of January 31,
2006 and 2005 pursuant to SFAS No. 144  Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets .  

Under Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard (SFAS) No 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, 
goodwill is subject to at least an annual assessment for impairment by applying
a fair value-based test  or on an interim basis if certain indicators are
present . The discontinuation of
an operating segment is one of those indicators. Accordingly, goodwill was
tested for impairment in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142
as of the second quarter of 2006. We used a combination of valuation
techniques, which included consideration of market-based approaches and an
income approach, in determining the fair value of our applicable reporting unit
in the interim impairment test of goodwill. 

The impairment test indicated
that the carrying value of the MAG assets exceeded their implied fair values. The
corresponding write-down of goodwill of $21.8 million to its fair value was
reported as a component of discontinued operations in the accompanying
consolidated statements of income. We also determined that the value of the
remaining MAG covenants not to compete were impaired and recorded an impairment
expense in the amount of $0.5 million. This write-down of covenants not to
compete is also reported as a component of discontinued operations in the
accompanying consolidated statements of income.  

Due to the foregoing
factors, we realized net income of approximately $30.7 million for the six
months ended January 31, 2006, compared to net income of approximately
$46.2 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

Historically, we have financed our growth
through cash generated from operations, public offerings of common stock, the
equity issued in conjunction with certain acquisitions and debt financing. Cash
and cash equivalents, combined with short-term investments decreased by
approximately $50.2 million from July 31, 2005 to January 31, 2006,
as a result of cash used for acquisitions; purchases of property and equipment;
an equity investment in an unconsolidated privately-held entity and repurchases
of common stock. During the winter months, most of our facilities process 10%
to 30% more vehicles than at other times of the year. This increased seasonal
volume requires the increased use of our cash to pay out advances and handling
costs of the additional business.  

As of January 31, 2006, we had working
capital of approximately $292.4 million, including cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments of approximately $202.3 million. During the course of a
quarter, we invest substantially all of our cash balances in AAA rated auction
rate securities and typically convert a portion of these securities to cash and
cash equivalents prior to the end of a quarter. Auction rate securities are principally
variable rate securities tied to short-term interest rates with maturities on
the face of the securities in excess of 90 days. Auction rate securities have
interest rate resets through a modified Dutch auction, at predetermined
short-term intervals, usually every 7, 28 or 35 days. They trade at par and are
callable at par on any interest payment date at the option of the issuer.
Interest paid during a given period is based upon the interest rate determined
during the prior auction. Although these instruments are issued and rated as
long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term securities
because of the liquidity provided through the interest rate reset. Our primary
source of cash is from the collection of sellers  fees, buyers  fees and
reimbursable advances from the proceeds of auctioned salvage vehicles.  

We believe that our currently available cash,
cash equivalents and short-term investments, cash generated from operations and
borrowing availability under our bank credit facilities and equipment leasing
lines will be sufficient to satisfy our operating and working capital
requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, if we experience
significant growth in the future, we may be required to raise additional
cash through the issuance of new debt or additional equity.  

Operating Activities    

Net cash provided by operating activities
decreased by $20.8 million to $26.0 million during the six months ended January 31,
2006 when compared to the same period in fiscal 2005, due principally to the
reduction in net income in 2006 and the timing of routine changes in working
capital items. During the period we consumed cash through the growth in
accounts receivable and vehicle pooling costs and we generated cash through the
growth in deferred revenue. The movements in these accounts are driven
primarily by the significant growth in vehicles held for sale which was
impacted by the Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.  The decrease in net income
is primarily a result of the loss on discontinued operations in the amount of
$22.3 million which was offset by increased revenue due to growth in vehicle
sales volume, new service revenue and higher fees resulting from increased
auction proceeds per vehicle.  

19  

Investing Activities    

For the six months ended January 31,
2006, we purchased approximately $372.1 million in short-term investments. These
purchases were partially offset by the sale of $266.6 million of short-term
investments. We typically invest our cash in auction rate notes with ratings of
AAA.  

Capital expenditures
(excluding those associated with fixed assets attributable to acquisitions)
were approximately $41.1 million and $25.3 million for the six months ended January 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively. Our capital expenditures are related primarily to
opening and improving facilities and acquiring yard equipment. We continue to
expand and invest in new and existing facilities in order to handle increased
volume and standardize the appearance of existing locations.  

During the six months ended January 31,
2006, we used cash for the acquisition of facilities in or near Fruitland,
Maryland; Altoona, Pennsylvania; Chambersburg , Pennsylvania; York Haven,
Pennsylvania; Greenwood, Nebraska and Grand Island, Nebraska, which had an
aggregate cash cost of approximately $22.4 million. During the six months ended
January 31, 2005, we made no acquisitions.  

During the six months ended January 31,
2006, we invested $9.0 million for a 50% equity investment in an unconsolidated
privately-held development stage entity. We are not committed to provide any
additional funding to this entity.  

Financing Activities    

In February 2003, our Board of Directors
authorized us to repurchase up to nine million shares of our common stock. The
repurchases may be effected through solicited or unsolicited transactions
in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. No time limit has
been placed on the duration of the share repurchase program. The repurchases
will be made at such times and in such amounts, as we deem appropriate and may be
discontinued at any time. We repurchased 366,000 shares during the six months
ended January 31, 2006 at a weighted average price of $24.24. We accounted
for the repurchase of our common stock by reducing common stock for $8.9
million. No shares were repurchased in fiscal 2005.  

Net proceeds from the exercise of stock
options were $3.1 million and $0.6 million for the six months ended January 31,
2006 and January 31, 2005, respectively. We also recognized a tax benefit
of $0.9 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006 associated with
disqualifying dispositions of incentive stock options.  

20  

Lease, Purchase and Other Contractual Obligations    

The following table summarizes our
significant contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of January 31,
2006 (in thousands):  

Payments due by period    

Amount of commitment expiration per period    

(1)      Contractual
obligations consist of long-term debt and future minimum lease payments under
capital and operating leases, including off-balance sheet leases, used in the
normal course of business. 

(2)      Commercial
commitments include primarily letters of credit provided for insurance programs
and certain business transactions. 

Credit Facilities    

On February 23, 2001, we entered into a
credit facility with our existing banking syndicate. The facility provided by
Wells Fargo Bank, Fleet National Bank and U.S. Bank National Association
consists of an unsecured revolving reducing line of credit in the amount of
$10.6 million that matures in 2006. As of January 31, 2006, we had
available $10.2 million under this facility, after taking into account $0.4
million of outstanding letters of credit. We are subject to customary
covenants, including the following financial covenants: 1) ratio of funded debt
to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA); 2)
profitable operation; 3) leverage ratio and 4) interest coverage ratio. We are
in compliance with these covenants.  

Factors
That May Affect Future Results   

We
depend on a limited number of major suppliers of salvage vehicles. The loss of
one or more of these major suppliers could adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition, and an inability to increase our sources of
vehicle supply could adversely affect our growth rates.   

Historically,
a limited number of vehicle suppliers have accounted for a substantial portion
of our revenues. In the second quarter of fiscal 2006, vehicles supplied by our
two largest suppliers accounted for approximately 20% of our revenues. Supplier
arrangements are either written or oral agreements typically subject to
cancellation by either party upon 30 to 90 days notice. Vehicle suppliers have
terminated agreements with us in the past in particular markets, which has
affected the pricing for sales services in those markets. There can be no
assurance that our existing agreements will not be cancelled. Furthermore,
there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into future agreements
with vehicle suppliers or that we will be able to retain our existing supply of
salvage vehicles. A reduction in vehicles from a significant vehicle supplier
or any material changes in the terms of an arrangement with a substantial
vehicle supplier could have a material adverse effect on our financial position,
results of operations or cash flows. In addition, a failure to increase our
sources of vehicle supply could adversely affect our earnings and revenue
growth rates.  

Our strategic shift from live salvage sales to an entirely
Internet based sales model presents new risks, including substantial technology
risks.   

In
fiscal 2004, we converted all our salvage sales from a live auction process to
an entirely Internet based auction-style model based on technology developed
internally by us. The conversion represents a significant change in the way we
conduct business and presents numerous risks, including our increased reliance
on the availability and reliability of our network systems. In particular, we
believe the conversion presents the following risks, among others:  

Our operating results in a particular
period could be adversely affected in the event our networks are not operable
for an extended period of time for any reason, as a result of Internet viruses,
or as a result of any other technological circumstance that makes us unable to
conduct our virtual sales.  

21  

Our business is increasingly reliant on
internally developed technology, and we have limited historic experience
developing technologies or systems for large-scale implementation and use.  

The change in our business model may make
it more difficult for management, investment analysts, and investors to model
or predict our future operating results until sufficient historic data is
available to evaluate the effect of the VB  2   implementation
over a longer period of time and in different economic environments.  

Our increasing reliance on proprietary
technology subjects us to intellectual property risks, including the risk of
third party infringement claims or the risk that we cannot establish or protect
intellectual property rights in our technologies. We have filed patent
applications for VB  2   in the United States, Netherlands,
and Europe, but we cannot provide any assurances that patents will actually
issue or that, if issued, the patent could not later be found to be
unenforceable or invalid. In June 2005, Manheim Services Corp. filed suit
against us in federal district court in Georgia, alleging, among other things,
that VB  2   infringes a patent assigned to
Manheim. We intend to defend the lawsuit vigorously, but an adverse ruling,
settlement, or judgment, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operation.  

Our operating results were adversely affected
by abnormal expenses associated with Hurricanes Katrina and Rita during the
three and six months ended January 31, 2006, and our operating margins in
future periods could continue to be adversely affected by the hurricanes.   

During the three and six months ended January 31,
2006, we recognized substantial additional costs associated with Hurricanes
Katrina and Rita. These additional costs, characterized as  abnormal  under FAS
151, were recognized during the three and six months ended January 31,
2006, and include the additional subhauling, payroll, equipment, and facilities
expenses directly related to the operating conditions created by the hurricanes.
We expect these costs to continue in future periods. These  abnormal  costs do
not include the normal expenses associated with the increased unit volume
created by the hurricanes, which are deferred until the sale of the unit and
are reflected in vehicle pooling costs on the balance sheet. As of January 31,
2006, approximately 90% of the incremental salvage vehicles received as a
result of the hurricanes remained unsold and in inventory. The Company expects
that the majority of these vehicles to be sold in the next three quarters. The
normal costs that have been capitalized will be recognized as yard expense as the
vehicles are sold. Legislation recently enacted in Louisiana will require that
vehicles suffering water damage to the powertrain, computer, or electrical
systems as a result of the hurricanes can only be dismantled or crushed. As a
result, this legislation could have an adverse effect on selling prices for
vehicles received from Louisiana as a result of the hurricanes, which could
have an adverse effect on our margins until the hurricane damaged vehicles are
sold.  

Our
results of operations may not continue to benefit from the implementation
of VB   2   to the extent we have experienced
in recent periods.  

We
believe that the implementation of our proprietary VB  2   sales
technologies across our salvage operations has had a favorable impact on our
results of operations by increasing the size and geographic scope of our buyer
base and increasing the average selling price for vehicles sold through our
sales. VB  2   was implemented across all our
salvage yards beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2004. We do not believe,
however, that we will continue to experience improvements in our results of
operations at the same relative rates we have experienced in the last year.  

The impairment we recognized in the January 2006
quarter was based on management estimates of the fair value of certain assets
related to our MAG operation. If we are unable to sell these assets for a
consideration equal to their estimated fair value, we could be required to
recognize additional impairment charges in future periods.   

During the quarter ended January 31,
2006, we adopted a formal plan to discontinue the operations of our public
auction business, Motors Auction Group (MAG). We intend to convert certain MAG
assets for use in our salvage business and to dispose of the balance of the
assets. As a result, during the January quarter, we recognized a loss from
discontinued operations, net of income tax effects, totaling $18.3 million. This
loss reflects a write-down to fair value of certain assets we intend to dispose.
Our management, in consultation with an independent valuation expert, estimated
the fair value of the assets to be disposed based on certain assumptions. Many
of the assets to be disposed have a specific, identifiable use related to MAG s
operating businesses, and the market of potential buyers for these assets may be
limited. If the fair value determined based on these assumptions and estimates
is greater than the value we actually realize on disposition, we could be
required to recognize additional charges for impairment, which could have an
adverse effect on our operating results in future periods.  

22  

Failure to have sufficient capacity to accept additional cars
at one or more of our salvage yards could adversely affect our relationships
with insurance companies or other suppliers of salvage vehicles.   

Capacity
at our salvage yards varies from period to period and from region to region.
For example, following adverse weather conditions in a particular area, our
yards in that area may fill and limit our ability to accept additional
salvage vehicles while we process existing inventories. We regularly evaluate
our capacity in all our markets and, where appropriate, seek to increase
capacity through the acquisition of additional land and yards. We may not
be able to reach agreements to purchase independent salvage yards in markets
where we have limited excess capacity, and zoning restrictions or
difficulties obtaining use permits may limit our ability to expand our
capacity through acquisitions of new land. Failure to have sufficient capacity
at one or more of our yards could adversely affect our relationships with
insurance companies or other suppliers of salvage vehicles, which could have an
adverse effect on our operating results.  

Factors
such as mild weather conditions in the United States can have an adverse effect
on our revenues and operating results as well as our revenue and earnings
growth rates.   

Mild
weather conditions in the United States tend to result in a decrease in the available
supply of salvage vehicles because traffic accidents decrease and fewer
automobiles are damaged. Accordingly, mild weather can have an adverse effect
on our salvage vehicle inventories, which would be expected to have an adverse
effect on our revenue and operating results and related growth rates and could
have an adverse effect on our operating results. Conversely, our inventories
will tend to increase in poor weather such as a harsh winter or as a result of
adverse weather-related conditions such as flooding. During periods of mild
weather conditions, our ability to increase our revenues and improve our
operating results and related growth will be increasingly dependent on our
ability to obtain additional vehicle suppliers and to compete more effectively
in the market, each of which is subject to the other risks and uncertainties
described in these sections.  

High
fuel prices in the United States and Canada may have an adverse effect on
our revenues and operating results as well as our earnings growth rates.   

Significant
increases in the cost of fuel could lead to a reduction in miles driven per car
and a reduction in accident rates. A material reduction in accident rates could
have a material impact on revenue growth. In addition, under our PIP contracts
the cost of towing the vehicle to one of our facilities is included in the
Percentage Incentive Program fee. We may incur increased fees which we
will not be able to pass on to the insurance companies. A material increase in
tow rates could have a material impact on our operating results.  

The
salvage vehicle sales industry is highly competitive and we may not be
able to compete successfully.   

We
face significant competition for the supply of salvage vehicles and for the
buyers of those vehicles. We believe our principal competitors include other
vehicle sales and auction companies with whom we compete directly in obtaining
vehicles from insurance companies and other suppliers, and large vehicle
dismantlers, who may buy salvage vehicles directly from insurance
companies, bypassing the salvage sales process. Many of the insurance companies
have established relationships with competitive sales and auction companies and
large dismantlers. Many of our competitors may have greater financial
resources than we. Due to the limited number of vehicle suppliers, the absence
of long-term contractual commitments between us and our suppliers and the
increasingly competitive market environment, there can be no assurance that our
competitors will not gain market share at our expense.  

We
may also encounter significant competition for local, regional and
national supply agreements with vehicle suppliers. There can be no assurance
that the existence of other local, regional or national contracts entered into
by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our business or
our expansion plans. Furthermore, we are likely to face competition from major
competitors in the acquisition of salvage vehicle sales facilities, which could
significantly increase the cost of such acquisitions and thereby materially
impede our expansion objectives or have a material adverse effect on our
financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These potential new
competitors may include consolidators of automobile dismantling
businesses, organized salvage vehicle buying groups, automobile manufacturers,
automobile auctioneers and software companies. While most vehicle suppliers
have abandoned or reduced efforts to sell salvage vehicles directly without the
use of service providers such as us, there can be no assurance that this trend
will continue, which could adversely affect our market share, financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, existing or new
competitors may be significantly larger and have greater financial and
marketing resources than us; therefore, there can be no assurance that we will
be able to compete successfully in the future.  

Because the growth of our business has been due in
large part to acquisitions and development of new salvage vehicle sales
facilities, the rate of growth of our business and revenues may decline if
we are not able to successfully complete acquisitions and development of new
facilities.   

We
seek to increase our sales and profitability through the acquisition of other
salvage vehicle sales facilities and the development of new salvage vehicle
storage facilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to:  

continue to acquire additional facilities
on favorable terms;  

23  

expand existing facilities in no growth
regulatory environments;  

increase revenues and profitability at
acquired and new facilities;  

maintain the historical revenue and
earnings growth rates we have been able to obtain through facility openings and
strategic acquisitions; or  

create new salvage vehicle storage
facilities that meet our current revenue and profitability requirements.  

As
we continue to expand our operations, our failure to manage growth could harm
our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition.   

Our
ability to manage growth is not only dependent on our ability to successfully
integrate new facilities, but also on our ability to:  

hire, train and manage additional
qualified personnel;  

establish new relationships or expand
existing relationships with vehicle suppliers;  

identify and acquire or lease suitable
premises on competitive terms;  

secure adequate capital; and  

maintain the supply of vehicles from
vehicle suppliers;  

Our
inability to control or manage these growth factors effectively could have a
material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.  

Our
annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate, causing the price of our
stock to decline.   

Our
revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected
to continue to fluctuate in the future on a quarterly and annual basis as a
result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors
that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, the
following:  

fluctuations in the market value of
salvage and used vehicles;  

the availability of salvage vehicles;  

variations in vehicle accident rates;  

buyer participation in the Internet
bidding process;  

delays or changes in state title
processing;  

changes in state or federal laws or
regulations affecting salvage vehicles;  

changes in state laws affecting who may purchase
salvage vehicles;  

our ability to integrate and manage our
acquisitions successfully;  

the timing and size of our new facility
openings;  

the announcement of new vehicle supply
agreements by us or our competitors;  

severity of weather and seasonality of
weather patterns;  

the amount and timing of operating costs
and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our
business, operations and infrastructure;  

the availability and cost of general
business insurance;  

labor costs and collective bargaining;  

availability of subhaulers at competitive
rates;  

acceptance of buyers and sellers of our
Internet-based model deploying VB  2  , a
proprietary Internet auction-style sales technology;  

current levels of out of state and
foreign demand for salvage vehicles may not continue;  

24  

the introduction of a similar Internet
product by a competitor; and  

the ability to obtain necessary permits
to operate salvage storage facilities.  

Due
to the foregoing factors, our operating results in one or more future periods
can be expected to fluctuate. As a result, we believe that period-to-period
comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and
should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. In the event
such fluctuations result in our financial performance being below the
expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our common
stock could decline substantially.  

Our
strategic shift to an Internet based sales model has increased the relative
importance of intellectual property assets to our business, and any inability
to protect those rights could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, or results of operations.   

Implementation
of VB  2   across our salvage operations has increased the
relative importance of intellectual property rights to our business. Our
intellectual property rights include pending patent applications for VB  2   as
well as trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property
rights. We are in the process of prosecuting an initial patent application
relating to VB  2   and cannot predict whether a patent
will actually issue from that application. Even if a patent is issued, the
scope of the protection gained may be insufficient or any issued patent
could subsequently be deemed invalid or unenforceable. In addition, we are
increasingly entering agreements with third parties regarding the license or
other use of our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions. Effective intellectual
property protection may not be available in every country in which our
products and services are distributed, deployed, or made available. We seek to
maintain certain intellectual property rights as trade secrets. The secrecy
could be compromised by third parties, or intentionally or accidentally by our
employees, which would cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting
from those trade secrets. Any significant impairment of our intellectual
property rights, or any inability to protect our intellectual property rights,
could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.  

We
are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property rights
claims, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages, and could
limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.   

Litigation
based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual
property rights are common among companies who rely heavily on intellectual
property rights. Our reliance on intellectual property rights has increased
significantly in recent years as we have implemented our VB  2   auction-style
sales technologies across our business and abandoned live auctions. As we face
increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims
against us grows. In June 2005, a competitor filed a patent infringement
claim against us relating to our  VB2  technologies.
This litigation and any other intellectual property claims, whether with or
without merit, can be time-consuming, expensive to litigate and settle, and can
divert management resources and attention from our core business. An adverse
determination in current or future litigation could prevent us from offering
our products and services in the manner currently conducted. We may also
have to pay damages or seek a license for the technology, which may not be
available on reasonable terms and which may significantly increase our
operating expenses, if it is available for us to license at all. We could also
be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could
require significant effort and expense.  

New
accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing standards could
require the Company to make adjustments in our accounting policies that could
adversely affect our financial statements.   

The
Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or other accounting
organizations or governmental entities issue new pronouncements or new
interpretations of existing accounting standards that sometimes require us to
change our accounting policies and procedures. To date, we do not believe any
new pronouncements or interpretations have had an adverse effect on our
financial position, results of operations or cash flows, but future
pronouncements or interpretations could require us to change our policies or
procedures. Moreover, we continually review our critical accounting policies in
light of the accounting literature and changes in our operations.  

Government
regulation of the salvage vehicle sales and auction industry may impair
our operations, increase our costs of doing business and create potential
liability.   

Participants
in the salvage vehicle sales and auction industry are subject to, and may be
required to expend funds to ensure compliance with a variety of U.S. or
Canadian, federal, state, provincial and local governmental, regulatory and
administrative rules, regulations, land use ordinances, licensure requirements
and procedures, including those governing vehicle registration, the
environment, zoning and land use. Failure to comply with present or future
regulations or changes in interpretations of existing regulations may result
in impairment of our operations and the imposition of penalties and other
liabilities. At various times, we may be involved in disputes with local
governmental officials regarding the development and/or operation of our
business facilities. We believe that we are in compliance in all material
respects with applicable regulatory requirements. We may be subject to
similar types of regulations by federal, provincial, state, and local
governmental agencies in new markets. In addition, new regulatory requirements
or changes in existing requirements may delay or increase the cost of
opening new facilities, may limit our base of salvage vehicle buyers and may decrease
demand for our vehicles.  

25  

The
operation of our storage facilities poses certain environmental risks, which
could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.   

Our
operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and
regulations regarding the protection of the environment. In the salvage vehicle
sales industry, large numbers of wrecked vehicles are stored at storage
facilities and, during that time, spills of fuel, motor oil and other fluids may occur,
resulting in soil, surface water or groundwater contamination. Environmental
issues resulting from fuel spills, oil spillage, or similar problems are also
present at our public sales facilities. In addition, certain of our facilities
generate and/or store petroleum products and other hazardous materials,
including waste solvents and used oil. We could incur substantial expenditures
for preventative, investigative or remedial action and could be exposed to
liability arising from our operations, contamination by previous users of
certain of our acquired facilities, or the disposal of our waste at off-site
locations. Environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over
time and there can be no assurance that we or our operations will not be
subject to significant costs in the future. Although we have obtained indemnification
for pre-existing environmental liabilities from many of the persons and
entities from whom we have acquired facilities, there can be no assurance that
such indemnifications will be adequate. Any such expenditures or liabilities
could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.  

If
we experience problems with our providers of fleet operations, our business
could be harmed.   

We
rely upon independent subhaulers to pick up and deliver vehicles to and from
our storage facilities. Our failure to pick up and deliver vehicles in a timely
and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business. Further, an increase in fuel cost may lead
to increased prices charged by our independent subhaulers, which may significantly
increase our cost. These costs may not be passed on to our sellers or
buyers.  

We
are partially self-insured for certain losses.   

We
are partially self-insured for certain losses related to medical, general
liability, workers  compensation and auto liability. Our liability represents
an estimate of the ultimate cost of claims incurred as of the balance sheet
date. The estimated liability is not discounted and is established based upon
analysis of historical data and actuarial estimates. While we believe these
estimates are reasonable based on the information currently available, if
actual trends, including the severity of claims and medical cost inflation,
differ from our estimates, our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows, could be impacted. Further, we rely on independent actuaries to
assist us in establishing the proper amount of reserves for anticipated payouts
associated with these self-insured exposures. If these actuaries provide
guidance based on erroneous assumptions, use models mathematically flawed or
otherwise provide advice that is inaccurate or unrepresentative, then it could
have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.  

Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates hold a
large percentage of our stock and their interests may differ from other
shareholders.   

Our
executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own, in the
aggregate, approximately 24% of our common stock as of January 31, 2006.
If they were to act together, these shareholders would have significant
influence over most matters requiring approval by shareholders, including the
election of directors, any amendments to our articles of incorporation and
certain significant corporate transactions, including potential merger or
acquisition transactions. In addition, without the consent of these
shareholders, we could be delayed or prevented from entering into transactions
that could be beneficial to us or our other investors. These shareholders may take
these actions even if they are opposed by our other investors.  

We
have a shareholder rights plan, or poison pill, which could affect the price of
our common stock and make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to
purchase a large portion of our securities, to initiate a tender offer or a
proxy contest, or to acquire us.   

In
March 2003, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan,
commonly known as a poison pill. The poison pill may discourage, delay, or
prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities,
initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, or acquiring us through an
acquisition, merger, or similar transaction. Such an acquirer could be prevented
from consummating one of these transactions even if our shareholders might
receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices.  

If
we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required
for our business, we may not be able to successfully manage our business
or achieve our objectives.   

Our
future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance
of our executive management team, all of whom are employed on an at-will basis
and none of whom are subject to any agreements not to compete. If we lose the
service of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, in
particular Willis J. Johnson, our Chief Executive Officer, and A. Jayson Adair,
our President, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or
otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to
successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives.  

26  

Compliance
with new rules and regulations concerning corporate governance may be
costly and time consuming.   

The
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, requires, among other things,
that companies adopt new corporate governance measures, imposes comprehensive
reporting and disclosure requirements, sets stricter independence and financial
expertise standards for board and audit committee members and imposes increased
civil and criminal penalties for companies, their chief executive officers and
chief financial officers for securities law violations. In addition, the Nasdaq
National Market, on which our common stock is traded, has adopted additional
comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance.
These laws, rules and regulations will increase the scope, complexity and cost
of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could
harm our financial position, results or operations or cash flows and divert
management s attention from business operations. These new rules and
regulations may also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to
obtain director and officer liability insurance and make it more difficult for
us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors,
particularly to serve on our audit committee.  

ITEM 3.   

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
  ABOUT MARKET RISK   

Our
principal exposures to financial market risk are interest rate and foreign
currency risk. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates
relates primarily to our investment portfolio of marketable securities. As of January 31,
2006, our cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments consisted primarily of funds invested in money market
accounts, which bear interest at a variable rate and AAA rated auction rate
securities, which also bear interest at a variable rate. Due to the average
maturity and nature of the Company s investment portfolio, we believe a sudden
change in interest rates would not have a material effect on the value of our
investment portfolio. As the interest rates on a material portion of our cash,
cash equivalents and short-term investments are variable, a change in interest
rates earned on our investment portfolio would impact interest income along
with cash flows, but would not materially impact the fair market value of the
related underlying instruments.  

Our
exposure to foreign currency risks relates to our operations in Canada, which
has not been significant. We do not hedge our exposure to the Canadian dollar.
We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading
purposes.  

ITEM 4.   

CONTROLS
  AND PROCEDURES   

(a)              Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Our management evaluated, with
participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer,
the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by
this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Based on this evaluation, our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial
Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to
ensure that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or
submit under the Exchange Act, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to
our management, including our principal executive and principal financial
officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure, and that such information is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange
Commission rules and forms.  

(b)              Changes
in Internal Controls 

There were no changes in
our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period
covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.  

27  

PART II - OTHER
INFORMATION   

ITEM 1. LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS   

We
are involved in litigation and damage claims arising in the ordinary course of
business, such as actions related to injuries, property damage, handling or
disposal of vehicles and patent infringement. We are also involved in various
governmental and administrative proceedings primarily relating to licensing and
operation of our business. Among this litigation is a lawsuit filed by Ciano
Dessources on May 21, 2003 in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Superior
Court Department against Copart of Connecticut, Inc. and Copart, Inc.,
which purports to be a class action on behalf of persons whose vehicles
were disposed of by us as abandoned vehicles, and which the named plaintiff
contends were disposed of without complying with state laws. Relief sought
included class certification, declaratory, remedial and/or injunctive
relief, including the ordering of a compliance program that will essentially
protect consumers, as well as damages, fees, and costs. Copart s Motion for
Summary Judgment was granted on December 8, 2004, dismissing the class claim
element of the lawsuit. However this dismissal may be reconsidered, and may also
be appealed once the remaining individual claims of the named plaintiff are
adjudicated.  

On
June 10, 2005, Manheim Services Corp. filed suit against Copart, Inc.
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia,
Atlanta Division, alleging infringement of Manheim s assigned patent (U.S.
Patent No. 5,774,873). Relief sought included a patent infringement
judgment, an injunction prohibiting Copart from using any infringing
product or service (including  VB   2  ), damages,
fees, costs and expenses. On August 3, 2005, Copart denied the
claim and asserted counterclaims based on violations of antitrust laws and
common-law tortious interference      (the  Competition Claims ). On February 10, 2006, the District Court
denied Manheim s motion to bifurcate the Competition Claims and stayed
discovery on the Competition Claims through April 13, 2006. Additionally,
on February 6, 2006, Manheim requested the Court to grant it leave to
assert its additional alleged claims of infringement by us of Manheim s
assigned U.S. Patent No. 6,006,201.      No trial
date has yet been set.  

On September 16, 2005, Richard M. Gray filed suit against Copart and
A. Safrin, in the State Court for the County of Chatham, State of Georgia,
alleging a class action for unreasonable amounts claimed for storage liens
by Copart, and related claims. Relief sought included class certification,
damages, fees, costs and expenses. Copart intends to vigorously defend the
suit. On October 20, 2005 we denied the claims. No trial date has been
set.  

We
provide for costs relating to these matters when a loss is probable and the
amount can be reasonably estimated. The effect of the outcome of these matters
on our future results of operations cannot be predicted because any such effect
depends on future results of operations, and the amount and timing of the
resolution of such matters. We believe that any ultimate liability will not
have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows. However, the amount of the liabilities associated with these claims, if
any, cannot be determined with certainty.  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   

The
disclosure in Item 2 of Part I under the caption  Factors That May Affect
Future Results  is incorporated by reference herein.  

ITEM 2   .  
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS  

28  

ITEM 4   SUBMISSION OF
MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS ADDED TO CURRENT QUARTER   

(a)              The
Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company was held on December 6, 2005
(the  Meeting ). 

(b)              The
following directors were elected at the Meeting: 

Willis J. Johnson  

A. Jayson Adair  

Harold Blumenstein  

Steven D. Cohan  

James Grosfeld  

James E. Meeks  

Jonathan Vannini  

(c)              The
results of the vote on the matters voted upon at the meeting are: 

(ii)  

To approve Copart s Executive Bonus Plan:  

(iii)  

Ratification of KPMG LLP as independent
  auditors for the Company for the current fiscal year ending July 31,
  2006:  

The
foregoing matters are described in more detail in the Company s definitive
proxy statement dated November 7,      2005 relating to the Meeting.  

On February 2,
2006 the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K announcing the dismissal of
KPMG LLP as its independent registered accounting firm and the engagement of
Ernst   Young LLP as the Company s independent registered accounting
firm.   

29  

ITEM 6. EXHIBITS   

(a)               Exhibits  

31.1  

Certification of Willis J. Johnson, Chief
  Executive Officer, pursuant to Section 302 of the  
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

31.2  

Certification of William E. Franklin, Chief
  Financial Officer, pursuant to Section 302 of the  
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

32.1  

Certification of Willis J. Johnson, Chief
  Executive Officer, pursuant to Section 906 of the  
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

32.2  

Certification of William E. Franklin, Chief
  Financial Officer, pursuant to Section 906 of the  
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

30  

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  

COPART, INC.  

/s/ William E. Franklin  

William E. Franklin, Senior Vice President
  and Chief 
  Financial Officer (duly authorized officer and principal 
  financial and accounting officer)  

Date: March 10, 2006  

31  

<EX-31.1>
 2
 a06-6823_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.1   

CERTIFICATION
OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, Willis J. Johnson, Chief Executive Officer of
Copart, Inc., certify that:  

1.                                           I have
reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Copart, Inc.;  

2.                                           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.                                           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this report;  

4.                                           The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting ( as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have:  

a)                                          Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

b)                                         Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

c)                                          Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

d)                                         Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.                                           The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

a)                                          All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

b)                                         Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial
reporting.  

Date: March 10, 2006  

/s/ Willis J. Johnson  

Willis J. Johnson  

Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 a06-6823_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.2   

CERTIFICATION
OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, William E. Franklin, Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of Copart, Inc., certify that:  

1.             I
have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Copart, Inc.;  

2.                                           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.                                           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this report;  

4.                                           The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting ( as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:  

a)                                          Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

b)                                         Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

c)                                          Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

d)                                         Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.                                           The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

a)                                          All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

b)                                         Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial
reporting.  

Date: March 10, 2006  

/s/ William E. Franklin  

William E. Franklin  

Senior Vice President and 
  Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 a06-6823_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.1   

CERTIFICATION
OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, Willis J. Johnson, Chief Executive Officer of Copart, Inc.,
hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Quarterly Report of Copart, Inc.
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2006 fully complies
with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and that, based on my knowledge, the information contained
in such Quarterly Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and result of operations of Copart, Inc.  

/s/ Willis J. Johnson  

Willis J. Johnson  

Chief Executive Officer  

Date: March 10, 2006  

A signed original of this written statement
required by Section 906 has been provided to Copart, Inc. and will be
retained by Copart, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.  

The foregoing certification is being
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.
It is not being filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not to be incorporated by reference
into any filing of the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof,
regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 a06-6823_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.2   

CERTIFICATION
OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, William E. Franklin, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Copart, Inc., hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350,
as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that
the Quarterly Report of Copart, Inc. on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended January 31, 2006 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that, based on my
knowledge, the information contained in such Quarterly Report fairly presents,
in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of
Copart, Inc.  

/s/ William E. Franklin  

William E. Franklin  

Senior Vice President and 
  Chief Financial Officer  

Date: March 10, 2006  

A signed original of this written statement
required by Section 906 has been provided to Copart, Inc. and will be
retained by Copart, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.  

The foregoing certification is being
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.
It is not being filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not to be incorporated by reference
into any filing of the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof,
regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.  

</EX-32.2>

