<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060329_10-Q_edgar_data_1053706_0001047469-06-004206_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1033330</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>140728</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>177112</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>507667</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>26</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>3</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-06-004206.hdr.sgml : 20060329
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060329164254
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-06-004206
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060217
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060329
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060329

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CRA INTERNATIONAL, INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001053706
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-LEGAL SERVICES [8111]
		IRS NUMBER:				042372210
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1130

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-24049
		FILM NUMBER:		06719315

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 CLARENDON STREET
		STREET 2:		T-33
		CITY:			BOSTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02116
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6174253000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 CLARENDON STREET
		STREET 2:		T-33
		CITY:			BOSTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02116

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CHARLES RIVER ASSOCIATES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980126

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 I4veY/6MNrprKMtbK8qVQ69jZjxktUaqAPgFR3ph4+EhMSqtoANUpVKrZzDCoqRa
 Sji6+tz5hXI4FSn9sKyL2g==

 0001047469-06-004206.txt : 20060329

10-Q
 1
 a2168875z10-q.htm
 FORM 10-Q

UNITED
STATES   

   SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-Q   

Commission file number: 000-24049   

CRA
International, Inc.   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)  

617-425-3000   

  (Registrant s telephone number, including
area code)  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes       No  o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  

  Large accelerated filer   o        Accelerated
filer           Non-accelerated
filer  o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes   o   No     

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s
classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.  

CRA International, Inc.   

INDEX   

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION    

ITEM 1.   

Financial Statements   

3  

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income Twelve weeks ended
  February 17, 2006, and February 18, 2005   

3  

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets February 17, 2006, and
  November 26, 2005   

4  

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Twelve weeks ended
  February 17, 2006, and February 18, 2005   

5  

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements   

6  

ITEM 2.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
  Results of Operations   

20  

ITEM 3.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

29  

ITEM 4.   

Controls and Procedures   

29  

PART II.
  OTHER INFORMATION    

30  

ITEM
  1.   

Legal
  Proceedings   

30  

ITEM
  1A.   

Risk
  Factors   

30  

ITEM 2.   

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds   

37  

ITEM 3.   

Defaults Upon Senior Securities   

37  

ITEM 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

37  

ITEM
  5.   

Other
  Information   

37  

ITEM 6.   

Exhibits   

37  

Signatures   

38  

2  

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

ITEM 1. Financial Statements   

CRA International, Inc.   

     Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(unaudited)   

   (In thousands, except per share data)   

See accompanying notes.  

3  

CRA International, Inc.   

     Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets   

   (In thousands, except share data)   

See accompanying notes.  

4  

CRA International, Inc.   

     Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows (unaudited)   

   (In thousands)   

See accompanying notes.  

5  

CRA International, Inc.   

     Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements   

   (Unaudited)   

1. Description of Business   

CRA International, Inc. (the  Company,  or  CRA ) is an economic,
financial, and business consulting firm that applies advanced analytic
techniques and in-depth industry knowledge to complex engagements for a broad
range of clients. CRA offers two types of services: legal and regulatory
consulting and business consulting. CRA operates in only one business segment,
which is consulting services. On May 6, 2005, the Company filed with the
Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts an Amendment to its Articles of
Organization to change its name to CRA International, Inc. The name change
reflects the Company s global presence in the economic, financial and
management consulting industry.  

On June 16, 2005, CRA s U.K. subsidiary completed the acquisition
of Economics of Competition and Litigation Limited ( ECL ), formerly known as
Lexecon Ltd, a London-based provider of competition economics in Europe.  

On April 27, 2005, CRA s U.K. subsidiary completed its acquisition
of Lee   Allen Consulting Limited ( Lee   Allen ), a
London-based consulting firm offering financial and dispute resolution and
forensic accounting services to the corporate, legal, and regulatory markets.  

On November 18, 2004, CRA s Australian subsidiary completed its
acquisition of Network Economics Consulting Group Pty Ltd. ( NECG ), a
premier provider of regulatory and economic consulting services in the Asia
Pacific region to clients in the energy, telecom, transportation, and other
industries.  

On November 12, 2004, CRA completed its acquisition of certain
assets and liabilities of Tabors Caramanis   Associates ( TCA ), a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based economics and engineering consulting firm
specializing in policy development, business planning, productivity
improvement, technical analysis, and project implementation in the energy and
utility sectors.  

On April 30, 2004, CRA completed its acquisition of InteCap, Inc.
( InteCap ), a leading intellectual property consulting firm in the United
States specializing in economic, financial, and strategic issues related to
intellectual property and complex commercial disputes.  

2. Unaudited Interim Consolidated Financial
Statements and Estimates   

The condensed consolidated statements of income for the twelve weeks
ended February 17, 2006, and February 18, 2005, the condensed
consolidated balance sheet as of February 17, 2006, and the condensed
consolidated statements of cash flows for the twelve weeks ended February 17,
2006, and February 18, 2005, are unaudited. The November 26, 2005
consolidated balance sheet is derived from CRA s audited consolidated financial
statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K as of that date. In
the opinion of management, these statements include all adjustments necessary
for a fair presentation of CRA s consolidated financial position, results of
operations, and cash flows. The consolidated statements of income include the
operations of CRA s acquired companies since their respective dates of
acquisition.  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires
management to make significant estimates and judgments that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities, at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Estimates in these
consolidated financial statements include, but are not limited to, allowance
for doubtful accounts, depreciation of property and equipment, valuation of
stock-based compensation, valuation of acquired intangible assets, accrued and
deferred income taxes, valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, and other
accrued expenses. These items are monitored and analyzed by the Company for
changes in facts and circumstances, and material changes in these estimates
could occur in the future. Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in
which they become known. CRA bases its estimates on historical experience and
various other assumptions that CRA believes to be reasonable under the
circumstances. Actual results may differ from those estimates if CRA s
assumptions based on past experience or other assumptions do not turn out to be
substantially accurate.  

6  

3. Principles of Consolidation   

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
Company, its wholly owned subsidiaries, and NeuCo, Inc. ( NeuCo ), a
company founded by CRA and an affiliate of Commonwealth Energy Systems in June 1997.
CRA s interest in NeuCo was 49.6 percent and 50.2 percent as of February 17,
2006 and February 18, 2005, respectively. NeuCo s financial results have
been consolidated with that of CRA for all fiscal periods presented, as CRA s
ownership interest, combined with CRA officers  holding three Board of
Directors seats, and other considerations, represented control. These directors
have received NeuCo stock options in connection with their NeuCo Board of
Director responsibilities. During fiscal 2005, NeuCo issued additional shares
to certain NeuCo employees, and certain NeuCo employees and directors exercised
stock options. As a result of these share transactions, CRA s interest in NeuCo
decreased to 49.6 percent as of February 17, 2006. These share
transactions have been recorded as adjustments to capital. The portion of the
results of operations of NeuCo allocable to its other owners is shown as  minority
interest  on CRA s consolidated statements of income, and that amount, along
with the capital contributions to NeuCo of its other owners, is shown as  minority
interest  on CRA s condensed consolidated balance sheets. All significant
intercompany accounts have been eliminated.  

4. Reclassifications   

Certain amounts in prior periods  consolidated financial statements
presented have been reclassified to conform to the current year s
presentation. These reclassifications include separate disclosures for (i)  tax
benefit from stock option exercises  on the consolidated statements of cash
flows, which were previously within  accounts payable, accrued expenses, and
other liabilities , (ii)  stock-based compensation expense  on the
consolidated statements of cash flows, which was previously within  depreciation
and amortization , and (iii)  sale of investments  and  purchases of
investments  on the consolidated statements of cash flows, which were
previously within  sale (purchase) of investments, net .  

5. Fiscal Year   

CRA s fiscal year ends on the last Saturday in November, and
accordingly, its fiscal year will periodically contain 53 weeks rather than 52
weeks. Both fiscal 2006 and 2005 are 52-week years. In a 52-week year, each of
CRA s first, second, and fourth quarters includes twelve weeks, and its third
quarter includes sixteen weeks. In a 53-week year, the fourth quarter includes
thirteen weeks.  

6. Revenue Recognition   

CRA derives substantially all of its revenues from the performance of
professional services. The contracts that CRA enters into and operates under
specify whether the engagement will be billed on a time-and-materials or a
fixed-price basis. These engagements generally last three to six months,
although some of CRA s engagements can be much longer in duration. Each
contract must be approved by one of CRA s vice presidents.  

CRA recognizes substantially all of its revenues under written service
contracts with its clients where the fee is fixed or determinable, as the
services are provided, and only in those situations where collection from the
client is reasonably assured. The majority of CRA s revenue is derived from
time-and-materials service contracts. Revenues from time-and-materials service
contracts are recognized as services are provided based upon hours worked and
contractually agreed-upon hourly rates, as well as a computer services fee
based upon hours worked. Revenues from fixed-price engagements are recognized
on a proportional performance method based on the ratio of costs incurred,
substantially all of which are labor-related, to the total estimated project
costs. Project costs are based on the direct salary and associated fringe
benefits of the consultants on the engagement plus all direct expenses incurred
to complete the engagement that are not reimbursed by the client. The
proportional performance method is used since reasonably dependable estimates
of the revenues and costs applicable to various stages of a contract can be
made, based on historical experience and terms set forth in the contract, and
are indicative of the level of benefit provided to CRA s clients. The
fixed-price contracts generally include a termination provision that converts
the agreement to a time-and-materials contract in the event of termination of
the contract. There are no costs that are deferred and amortized over the
contract term. CRA s management maintains contact with project managers to discuss
the status of the projects and, for fixed-price engagements, management is
updated on the budgeted costs and resources required to complete the project.
These budgets are then used to calculate revenue recognition and to estimate
the anticipated income or loss on the project. In the past, CRA has
occasionally been required to commit unanticipated additional resources to
complete projects, which have resulted in lower than anticipated income or
losses on those contracts. CRA may experience similar situations in the
future. Provisions for estimated losses on  

7  

contracts are made during the period in which such losses become
probable and can be reasonably estimated. To date, such losses have not been
significant.  

Revenues also include reimbursements, or expenses billed to clients,
including travel and other out-of-pocket expenses, outside consultants, and
other reimbursable expenses. These reimbursable expenses included in revenues
are as follows (in thousands):  

CRA maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses
resulting from clients  failure to make required payments. The Company bases
its estimates on historical collection experience, current trends, and credit
policy. In determining these estimates, CRA examines historical write-offs of
its receivables and reviews client accounts to identify any specific customer
collection issues. If the financial condition of CRA s customers were to
deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payment,
additional allowances may be required.  

Unbilled services represent revenue recognized by CRA for services
performed but not yet billed to the client. Deferred revenue represents amounts
billed or collected in advance of services rendered.  

7. Stock-Based Compensation   

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB )
issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123
(revised 2004)  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No. 123R ). SFAS No. 123R
replaces SFAS No. 123  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation ,
supersedes APB Opinion No. 25  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB
No. 25 ), and amends SFAS No. 95  Statement of Cash Flows . SFAS No. 123R
requires entities to recognize compensation expense for all share-based
payments to employees and directors, including grants of employee stock
options, based on the grant-date fair value of those share-based payments (with
limited exceptions), adjusted for expected forfeitures. In April 2005, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a final ruling that extended
the compliance date for SFAS No. 123R to the first interim or annual
reporting period of the registrants  first fiscal year that begins on or after June 15,
2005. CRA adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 using
the modified prospective application method. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R
in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, CRA followed the intrinsic value method in
accordance with APB No. 25 to account for its employee stock options.
Historically, all stock options have been granted with an exercise price equal
to the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. Accordingly,
no compensation expense was recognized from option grants to employees and
directors. However, compensation expense was recognized in connection with the
issuance of stock options to non-employee consultants. SFAS No. 123R
did not change the accounting for stock-based compensation related to
non-employees in connection with equity based incentive arrangements.  

SFAS No. 123R requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of
recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather
than as an operating cash flow as required under APB No. 25. This
requirement reduces reported operating cash flows and increases reported
financing cash flows in periods after adoption. As a result, net financing cash
flows included approximately $0.3 million for the twelve weeks ended February 17,
2006, from the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation
cost. Under prior accounting rules, this amount would have been included in net
operating cash flows. Total cash flow remains unchanged from what would have
been reported under prior accounting rules.  

CRA utilizes the straight-line attribution method for recognizing
stock-based compensation expense under SFAS No. 123R. CRA recorded $0.7 million
of compensation expense, net of tax, in the twelve weeks ended February 17,
2006 for share-based payment awards made to the Company s employees and
directors consisting of stock options issued based on the estimated fair
values.  

Results for the twelve weeks ended February 18, 2005 have not been
restated. Had compensation expense for employee stock options been determined
based on fair value at the grant date consistent with SFAS No. 123R, with
stock options expensed using the straight-line attribution method, CRA s net
income and earnings per share for the twelve weeks ended February 18, 2005
would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below (in thousands,
except per share data):  

8  

Twelve Weeks 
  Ended 
  February 18, 
  2005   

Net income as reported (Under APB No. 25)  

$  

4,619  

Deduct: Total stock-based employee
  compensation expense determined under fair value based method for all awards,
  net of related tax effects  

(863  

)  

Net income pro forma  

$  

3,756  

Basic net income per share as reported  

$  

0.46  

Basic net income per share pro forma  

$  

0.38  

Diluted net income per share as reported  

$  

0.43  

Diluted net income per share pro forma  

$  

0.35  

The weighted average fair market value using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model of the options granted was $17.05 for the twelve weeks
ended February 17, 2006 and $15.03 for the twelve weeks ended February 18,
2005. The fair market value of the stock options at the date of grant was estimated
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted
average assumptions:  

The risk-free interest rate is based on US Treasury interest rates
whose term is consistent with the expected life of the stock options. Expected
volatility and expected life are based on the Company s historical experience.
Expected dividend yield was not considered in the option pricing formula since
CRA does not pay dividends and has no current plans to do so in the future. The
forfeiture rate used was based upon historical experience. As required by SFAS No. 123R,
CRA will adjust the estimated forfeiture rate based upon actual experience.  

The Company has adopted the 1998 Incentive and Nonqualified Stock
Option Plan (the  Plan ), which originally provided for the grant of options to
purchase up to 970,000 shares of common stock. In January 2001, the
shareholders approved an amendment to the Plan increasing the number of shares
issuable under the Plan to 1,870,000. In April 2002, the shareholders
approved an amendment to the Plan increasing the number of shares issuable
under the Plan from 1,870,000 to 2,470,000 and adding a provision automatically
increasing the maximum number of shares on an annual basis by the lesser of
400,000 shares or 4% of the number of shares of common stock outstanding at the
end of each fiscal year. As of February 17, 2006, the maximum number of
shares issuable under the Plan was 4,027,391. Options are to be granted at an
exercise price equal to the fair market value of the shares of common stock at
the date of grant. Vesting terms are determined at the discretion of the Board
of Directors and generally range from immediate vesting to vesting at various
rates up to five years. In general, options terminate 10 years after the
date of grant. In addition, the Board of Directors has adopted the 2004
Nonqualified Inducement Stock Option Plan to facilitate the granting of stock
options as an inducement to new employees to join the Company. The 2004
Nonqualified Inducement Stock Option Plan authorizes the grant of nonqualified
options to purchase an aggregate of up to 500,000 shares of common stock.
Subject to the terms of the plan, the plan administrator has the authority to
determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, expiration date, and other
terms and conditions of each option grant. A summary of option activity is as
follows:  

9  

The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the
twelve weeks ended February 17, 2006 was approximately $1.1 million.  

The following table summarizes the status of CRA s non-vested options
since November 26, 2005:  

The total fair value of shares vested during the twelve weeks ended February 17,
2006 was $0.5 million. As of February 17, 2006, there was $8.1
million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested
share-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plan. That cost is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.3 years.  

The Company has adopted the 1998 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The
Stock Purchase Plan authorizes the issuance of up to an aggregate of 243,000
shares of common stock to participating employees at a purchase price equal to
85 percent of fair market value on either the first or the last day of the
one-year offering period under the Stock Purchase Plan. In the twelve weeks  

10  

ending February 17, 2006 and February 18, 2005, there were no
offering periods under the Stock Purchase Plan and no shares were issued.  

8. Business Acquisitions   

On June 16, 2005, CRA s U.K. subsidiary completed the acquisition
of all of the equity of ECL, a London-based provider of competition economics
in Europe, formerly known as Lexecon Ltd. CRA purchased ECL for
approximately $15.3 million valued using foreign exchange rates as of the
date of acquisition (after deducting cash acquired, and adding acquisition
costs and transaction fees paid or accrued). The purchase price consisted of
$11.5 million in cash and $3.8 million in loan notes that were
exchanged for 70,533 restricted shares of CRA s common stock. These shares
carry restrictions with respect to when they can be sold. CRA may be
required to pay additional purchase consideration over the next four years
following the transaction, in cash or stock, if specific performance targets
are met. Any additional payments related to this contingency will be accounted
for as additional goodwill. The acquisition has been accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting, and the results of operations have been included
in the accompanying statements of income from the date of acquisition. The ECL
acquisition added approximately 25 employee consultants.  

On April 27, 2005, CRA s U.K. subsidiary completed the acquisition
of all of the equity of Lee   Allen, a London-based consulting firm
offering financial dispute resolution and forensic accounting services to the
corporate, legal, and regulatory markets. CRA purchased Lee   Allen
for approximately $17.1 million valued using foreign exchange rates as of
the date of the acquisition (after deducting cash acquired, and adding
acquisition costs and transaction fees paid or accrued). The purchase price
consisted of $13.3 million in cash and $3.8 million in loan notes
that were exchanged for 77,343 restricted shares of CRA s common stock. These
shares carry restrictions with respect to when they can be sold. CRA may be
required to pay additional purchase consideration over the next four years
following the transaction, in cash and CRA stock, if specific performance
targets are met. Any additional payments related to this contingency will be
accounted for as additional goodwill. The acquisition has been accounted for
under the purchase method of accounting, and the results of operations have
been included in the accompanying statements of income from the date of
acquisition. The Lee   Allen acquisition added approximately 40
employee consultants.  

The following is a preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the
estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for the ECL and
Lee   Allen acquisitions, based upon management s current estimates of
respective fair values. The allocation of the purchase price will be finalized
as CRA receives other information relevant to the acquisition, including a
valuation and appraisal of the intangibles, and completes its analysis of other
transaction-related costs, such as restructuring activities related to lease
obligations. The final purchase price allocations for these acquisitions may be
different from the preliminary estimates presented below. The impact of any
adjustments to the final purchase price allocations is not expected to be
material to CRA s results of operations for fiscal 2006.  

11  

The net assets acquired relating to the ECL and Lee   Allen
acquisitions represent the value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
valued using foreign exchange rates as of the date of acquisition. CRA does not
anticipate that any of the acquired goodwill identified above will be
deductible for tax purposes.  

In connection with the ECL and Lee   Allen acquisitions, CRA
is expected to incur restructuring costs to eliminate duplicate offices. The
total costs have not yet been determined, but most of these costs are expected
to be recognized by CRA in fiscal 2006 as a liability assumed as of the
acquisition date, resulting in additional goodwill.  

During fiscal 2004, the Company made three acquisitions as
follows:  InteCap, Inc., a leading
intellectual property consulting firm in the United States, for approximately
$79.4 million (after deducting cash acquired, and adding acquisition costs
and transaction fees paid or accrued); TCA, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
economics and engineering consulting firm, for approximately $7.8 million
(after adding a working capital adjustment and an additional earnout liability,
acquisition costs, and transaction fees paid or accrued);  and NECG, an Australian-based regulatory and
economic consulting firm, for approximately $10.7 million valued using
foreign exchange rates as of the date of the acquisition (after deducting cash
acquired, and after adding an additional earnout liability, acquisition costs
and transaction fees paid or accrued). These acquisitions have been accounted
for under the purchase method of accounting, and the results of operations have
been included in the accompanying statements of income for all periods
presented.  

The purchase agreement for the TCA acquisition provided for additional
purchase consideration over the two years following the transaction, in cash
and CRA stock, if specific performance targets are met. During the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2005, CRA recorded a $0.6 million liability related to this
earnout obligation, which will be paid during the second quarter of fiscal
2006. The purchase agreement for the NECG acquisition provided for additional
purchase consideration over the three years following the transaction, in cash,
if specific performance targets are met. During the fourth quarter of fiscal
2005, CRA recorded a $0.5 million liability related to this earnout obligation,
which will be paid during the second quarter of fiscal 2006. These payments,
and any additional payments related to these contingencies, have been and will
be accounted for as additional goodwill.  

CRA has not furnished pro forma financial information relating to the
ECL and Lee   Allen acquisitions because such information is not
material. Financial information relating to the NECG, TCA and Intecap
acquisitions are included in the results of operations for all periods
presented.  

9. Goodwill and Intangible Assets   

Goodwill represents the purchase price of acquired businesses in excess
of the fair market value of net assets acquired. In accordance with SFAS No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  (SFAS No. 142), goodwill and
intangible assets with indefinite lives are not subject to amortization, but
are monitored annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are other
indications of impairment. Any impairment would be measured based upon the fair
value of the related asset based on the provisions of SFAS No. 142.
Because the Company has one reporting segment, under SFAS No. 142, the
Company utilizes the entity-wide approach for assessing goodwill for impairment
and compares its market value to its net book value to determine if an
impairment exists. There were no impairment losses related to goodwill in any
of the fiscal periods presented. If CRA determines through the impairment
review process that goodwill has been impaired, CRA would record the impairment
charge in its consolidated statement of income.  

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill during the twelve weeks
ended February 17, 2006, are as follows (in thousands):  

The net amount of goodwill as of February 17, 2006, includes
$13.7 million from the ECL acquisition and $13.3 million from the Lee  
Allen acquisition, valued using foreign exchanges rates as of the end of the
reporting period. The remaining net goodwill balance is attributed to
acquisitions which occurred prior to fiscal 2005. The goodwill amounts for the
ECL and Lee   Allen acquisitions reflect CRA s preliminary purchase
price allocations and are subject to change. These preliminary purchase price
allocations are based upon CRA s estimates of respective fair values, and will
be finalized as CRA receives other information relevant to these acquisitions,
including a valuation and appraisal of the intangibles, and completes its
analysis of other transaction-related costs, such as restructuring activities
related to lease obligations.  

12  

Intangible assets that are separable from goodwill and have
determinable useful lives are valued separately and amortized over their
expected useful lives. CRA assesses the impairment of amortizable intangible
assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable. Factors CRA considers important that could
trigger an impairment review include the following:  

a significant underperformance relative to expected
historical or projected future operating results;  

a significant change in the manner of CRA s use of
the acquired asset or the strategy for CRA s overall business;  

a significant negative industry or economic trend;
and  

CRA s market capitalization relative to net book
value.  

If CRA determines that an impairment review is required, CRA would
review the expected future undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the
assets. If CRA determines that the carrying value of intangible assets may not
be recoverable, CRA would measure any impairment based on a projected
discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by CRA to be
commensurate with the risk inherent in CRA s current business model. If
impairment is indicated through this review, the carrying amount of the asset
would be reduced to its estimated fair value.  

The components of acquired identifiable intangible assets are as
follows (in thousands):  

Non-competition agreements and other intangible assets are amortized on
a straight-line basis over the related estimated lives of the agreements (seven
to ten years). Customer relationships, trade names, and property leases are
amortized on a straight-line basis over their remaining useful lives (one to
five years). Other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, as of February 17,
2006 and November 26, 2005 includes an estimated $2.1 million related
to the ECL acquisition, and an estimated $2.1 million related to the Lee  
Allen acquisition. The valuations related to these intangible assets will be
finalized during fiscal 2006.  

10. Private Placement of Convertible Debt and
Other Financing   

Private Placement of Convertible Debt.   On June 21,
2004, CRA completed a private placement of $75 million of 2.875%
convertible senior subordinated debentures due 2034. On July 1, 2004, CRA
sold an additional $15 million principal amount of the debentures. Holders
of the debentures may convert them, as described below, only under the
following circumstances: 

during any fiscal quarter (and only during such
fiscal quarter) commencing after September 3, 2004, and before February 16,
2029, if the last reported sale price of CRA s common stock is greater than or
equal to 125% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the
period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the
preceding fiscal quarter;  

at any time on or after February 17, 2029, if
the last reported sale price of CRA s common stock on any date on or after February 17,
2029, is greater than or equal to 125% of the conversion price;  

subject to certain limitations as set forth in the
indenture governing the debentures, during the five business day period after
any three consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per debenture
for each day of that  

13  

period was
less than 98% of the product of the conversion rate and the last reported sale
price of CRA s common stock;  

if the debentures have been called for redemption by
CRA;  

upon the occurrence of specified corporate
transactions as set forth in the indenture governing the debentures; or  

if the debentures are rated by Moody s Investors
Service, Inc. or Standard   Poor s Rating Services or both, at
any time when (i) the long-term credit rating assigned to the debentures
by either rating agency is two or more levels below the credit rating initially
assigned to the debentures or (ii) either rating agency has discontinued,
withdrawn or suspended their ratings with respect to the debentures.  

As a result of its election on December 14, 2004, CRA must settle
the conversion of the debentures, as follows: (i) $1,000 in cash per
$1,000 principal amount of debentures converted; and (ii) in cash or
shares of CRA common stock (at CRA s further election, except for cash in lieu
of fractional shares), any conversion obligation that exceeds the principal
amount of the debentures converted.  

Pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing the debentures, since
the closing stock price did not equal or exceed the $50 per share contingent
conversion trigger price for 20 out of 30 consecutive trading days ending on February 17,
2006, holders of the debentures are not able to exercise their right to convert
the bonds during the second quarter of fiscal 2006. This test is repeated each
fiscal quarter. Therefore, since holders of the debentures are not able to
exercise their right to convert the bonds as of February 17, 2006, the
Company has classified the $90 million convertible debt as long-term debt
as of February 17, 2006, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
In June 2005, the Company amended its loan agreement to increase the
existing line of credit from $40 million to $90 million to mitigate
the potential liquidity risk, and to provide funding if required, in the event
of conversion by the debenture holders. CRA believes that in the event the
contingent conversion trigger price is met, it is unlikely that a significant
percentage of bondholders will exercise their right to convert because the
debentures have traded at a premium over their conversion value.  

The debentures are CRA s direct, unsecured senior subordinated
obligations and rank junior in right of payment to CRA s existing bank line of
credit and any future secured indebtedness that CRA may designate as
senior indebtedness. Interest of approximately $1.3 million, is payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15. CRA will also be required
to pay contingent interest on the applicable interest payment date to the holders
of the debentures for the period commencing June 20, 2011, and ending December 14,
2011, if the average trading price of the debentures for each of the last five
trading days immediately preceding June 20, 2011, equals 125% or more of
the principal amount of the debentures. Thereafter, CRA will pay contingent
interest on the interest payment date for a six-month interest period if the
average trading price of the debentures during the five trading day period
immediately preceding the first day of the applicable six-month interest period
equals or exceeds 125% of the principal amount of the debentures. The
contingent interest payable per debenture will equal 0.25% of the average
trading price of such debenture during the applicable five trading day reference
period.  

CRA may elect to redeem for cash all or any portion of the
debentures on or after June 20, 2011 at a repurchase price equal to 100%
of the principal amount of the debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
CRA may be required to repurchase all or any portion of the debentures, at
the option of each holder, on June 15, 2011, June 15, 2014, June 15,
2019, June 15, 2024, and June 15, 2029 and upon certain specified
fundamental changes, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the
debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Upon a fundamental change
involving a change of control of CRA, CRA may also be required to pay a
make-whole premium, which in some cases could be substantial and which may be
paid in cash, shares of common stock, or a combination thereof, to the holders
of debentures who elect to require CRA to repurchase or convert debentures.  

CRA capitalized $3.3 million in debt issuance costs related to this
offering, which are being amortized as a component of interest expense on a
straight-line basis over seven years, through 2011, which is the first year in
which CRA may be required to repurchase all or any portion of the
debentures. These debt issuance costs, net of accumulated amortization of
$0.8 million, are included in other assets in the consolidated balance
sheet as of February 17, 2006.  

The contingent interest feature included in the debenture represents an
embedded derivative under SFAS 133  Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities  that must be recorded at fair value as of February 17,
2006. The Company has determined that the fair value of the contingent interest
feature is de minimus as of February 17, 2006, based upon  

14  

economic, market and other conditions in effect as of this date. There
are no other embedded derivatives associated with the Company s convertible
debentures.  

The Company has agreed with the debenture holders to reserve the
maximum number of shares of common stock that may be issued upon
conversion of the debentures.  

Borrowings under the
Revolving Line of Credit   .     CRA
is party to a senior loan agreement with its bank for a $90 million revolving
line of credit with a maturity date of April 30, 2007. Subject to the
terms of the agreement, CRA may use borrowings under this line of credit
for acquisition financing, working capital, general corporate purposes, letters
of credit, and foreign exchange contracts. The available line of credit is
reduced, as necessary, to account for certain letters of credit outstanding.
The $90 million credit facility allows CRA to mitigate the potential
liquidity risk, and to provide funding if required, in the event of conversion
by the debenture holders. Funds available under the expanded facility will allow
CRA to continue to classify up to $90 million of its convertible
debentures as long-term debt, rather than short-term, and will give CRA
additional flexibility to meet its unforeseen financial requirements. Other
than for letters of credit outstanding, there were no amounts outstanding under
this line of credit as of February 17, 2006, and the line of credit then
available was $89.3 million. 

Borrowings under CRA s credit facility bear interest, at its option,
either at LIBOR plus an applicable margin or at the prime rate. Applicable
margins range from 0.75% to 1.50%, depending on the ratio of CRA s consolidated
total debt to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or EBITDA, for the preceding four fiscal quarters, subject to
various adjustments stated in the senior loan agreement. These margins are
adjusted both quarterly and each time CRA borrows under the credit facility.
Interest is payable monthly. A commitment fee of 0.165% is payable on the
unused portion of the credit facility. Borrowings under the credit facility are
secured by 100% of the stock of certain of CRA s U.S. subsidiaries and by 65%
of the stock of certain of CRA s foreign subsidiaries, amounting to net assets
of approximately $104.6 million as of February 17, 2006.  

11. Shareholders  Equity   

Public Offering of Common Stock.   In
June 2005, the Company completed a public offering of 1,899,227 shares of
its common stock at a price of $53.75 per share. Of the 1,899,227 shares sold,
710,000 shares were offered by CRA and 1,189,227 came from selling
shareholders. CRA received net proceeds of approximately $35.9 million,
after deducting the underwriting discount and offering expenses. As part of
the offering, CRA received additional net proceeds of approximately
$2.6 million from the exercise of 138,187 options by the selling
shareholders. The net proceeds from the offering are intended to be used for
general corporate purposes, including working capital and possible acquisitions
of and investments in complementary businesses. 

Issuances of Common Stock in Connection with
Business Acquisitions.   In July 2005, the Company
issued 70,533 restricted shares of its common stock valued at $3.8 million
as part of the consideration paid for the acquisition of ECL. In May 2005,
the Company issued an aggregate of 77,343 restricted shares of its common stock
valued at $3.8 million as part of the consideration paid for the
acquisition of Lee   Allen. In November 2004, the Company issued
75,261 restricted shares of its common stock valued at $3.0 million as part of
the consideration paid for the acquisition of NECG, and 24,495 restricted
shares of its common stock valued at $1.0 million as part of the
purchase price for the acquisition of TCA. The restricted shares issued in connection
with all of these acquisitions are fully vested and held in escrow, until the
restrictions have lapsed. These shares have restrictions with respect to when
they can be sold over a period of time of up to five years. 

Stock-Based Compensation.   For
the first quarter of fiscal 2006, income tax benefits on stock-based
compensation of $0.3 million were recorded as an increase to common stock. In
addition, in accordance with newly adopted SFAS No. 123R, approximately
$0.9 million of stock-based compensation expense was recorded as an increase to
common stock for share-based payment awards made to the Company s employees and
directors, based on the estimated fair values of stock options vesting during
the period. CRA also recorded $0.1 million in stock compensation expense during
the first twelve weeks of fiscal 2006 for options granted to external
consultants and shares of common stock granted to certain employees, as further
explained below. 

Exercise of Stock Options.   During
the twelve weeks ended February 17, 2006, 53,947 options were exercised
for $1.4 million in proceeds. 

Shares Granted in Exchange for Notes Receivable.   In
April 2004, in connection with the acquisition of InteCap, certain InteCap
employees purchased an aggregate of 87,316 shares of restricted common stock in
exchange for full recourse, interest-bearing notes, maturing in June, 2007,
totaling approximately $2.9 million. The common stock is fully vested,
non-forfeitable, and non-saleable for three years. These notes receivable, net
of principal payments received, are recorded as a reduction of shareholders  

15  

equity.  

Unearned Stock Compensation.   Unearned
stock compensation represents the cost associated with the grant of stock
options to external consultants and the cost associated with shares of common
stock granted to certain employees. The options granted to external consultants
are accounted for under variable accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 123
and EITF 96-18  Accounting for Equity Instruments that are Issued to Other than
Employees  (EITF 96-18). These costs are being amortized over the related
vesting period. 

12. Net Income per Share   

Basic net income per share represents net income divided by the
weighted average shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted
net income per share represents net income divided by the weighted average
shares of common stock and common stock equivalents outstanding during the
period. Weighted average shares used in diluted earnings per share include
common stock equivalents arising from stock options and shares underlying CRA s
debentures under the treasury stock method. Common stock equivalents arising
from stock options include the effect of in-the-money options, which is calculated
based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury
stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay
for exercising stock options, the amount of compensation cost for future
service that the Company has not yet recognized, and the amount of tax benefits
that would be recorded in additional paid-in capital when the award becomes
deductible are assumed to be used to repurchase shares. A reconciliation of
basic to diluted weighted average shares of common stock outstanding is as
follows (in thousands):  

16  

Under EITF No. 04-08  The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt
on Diluted Earnings Per Share , which is effective for periods ending after December 15,
2004, and EITF 90-19  Convertible Bonds with Issuer Option to Settle for Cash
upon Conversion , because of CRA s obligation to settle the par value of the
convertible debentures in cash, the Company is not required to include any
shares underlying the convertible debentures in its diluted weighted average
shares outstanding until the average stock price per share for the quarter
exceeds the $40 conversion price and only to the extent of the additional
shares CRA may be required to issue in the event CRA s conversion
obligation exceeds the principal amount of the debentures converted. At such
time, only the number of shares that would be issuable (under the  treasury 
method of accounting for share dilution) are included, which is based upon the
amount by which the average stock price exceeds the conversion price. For the
first $1 per share that CRA s average stock price exceeds the $40 conversion
price of the debentures, CRA will include approximately 55,000 additional
shares in CRA s diluted share count. For the second $1 per share that CRA s
average stock price exceeds the $40 conversion price, CRA will include
approximately 52,000 additional shares, for a total of approximately 107,000
shares, in CRA s diluted share count, and so on, with the additional shares 
dilution falling for each $1 per share that CRA s average stock price exceeds
$40 if the stock price rises further above $40 (see table, below). The average
stock price for the twelve weeks ended February 17, 2006, was
approximately $47 per share; therefore, 327,000 shares underlying the
debentures were included in the diluted weighted average shares outstanding for
the twelve weeks ended February 17, 2006, under the treasury stock method
of accounting, as required by EITF 90-19. The average stock price for the
twelve weeks ended February 18, 2005, was approximately $44 per share;
therefore, 202,000 shares underlying the debentures were included in the
diluted weighted average shares outstanding for this period.  

TREASURY  METHOD OF ACCOUNTING FOR SHARE
DILUTION   

Formula:   

Number of extra dilutive shares created 
  = ((Stock Price - Conversion Price)* Underlying Shares)/Stock Price  

Condition:   

Only applies when share price exceeds $40  

Basic weighted average shares outstanding for the twelve weeks ended February 17,
2006 include 710,000 shares sold by CRA and 138,187 options exercised related
to the public offering of CRA s common stock in June 2005, as well as the
common stock issued in connection with the ECL and Lee   Allen
acquisitions in June and April 2005, respectively.  

17  

As part of the earnout provisions included in the ECL, Lee  
Allen, and TCA acquisition agreements, the Company may settle a portion of
its obligations through the issuance of its common stock. Issuance of these
shares is contingent based on certain provisions of the acquisition agreements.
The consideration to be paid in connection with the TCA earnout provision will
be paid principally in cash. As none of the necessary conditions underlying the
earnout provisions for the ECL and Lee   Allen acquisitions have been
met as of February 17, 2006, the shares are excluded from the basic and
diluted weighted average shares outstanding for the twelve weeks ended February 17,
2006.  

13. Comprehensive Income   

Comprehensive income represents net income reported in the accompanying
consolidated statements of income adjusted for changes in CRA s foreign
currency translation account. A reconciliation of comprehensive income is as
follows (in thousands):  

14. Accounting Pronouncements   

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154  Accounting Changes
and Error Corrections  (Statement 154), which replaces APB Opinion No. 20  Accounting
Changes , and SFAS No. 3  Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim
Financial Statements . This Statement changes the requirements for the
accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle, and applies
to all voluntary changes in accounting principles, as well as changes required
by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance it does not include
specific transition provisions. Specifically, this Statement requires
retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements, unless it is
impracticable to determine the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect
of the change. When it is impracticable to determine the effects of the change,
the new accounting principle must be applied to the balances of assets and liabilities
as of the beginning of the earliest period for which retrospective application
is practicable and a corresponding adjustment must be made to the opening
balance of retained earnings for that period rather than being reported in an
income statement. When it is impracticable to determine the cumulative effect
of the change, the new principle must be applied as if it were adopted
prospectively from the earliest date practicable. This Statement is effective
for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2005. This Statement does not change the transition
provisions of any existing pronouncements. CRA does not believe that the
adoption of Statement 154 will have a significant impact on its consolidated statement
of income or financial condition.  

15. Commitments   Contingencies   

On March 15, 2005, Pegasus Technologies, Inc. filed a
complaint against CRA s subsidiary NeuCo, Inc. in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Civil Action No. 1:05-CV-736,
alleging patent infringement. The complaint was subsequently amended on May 10,
2005 to specify particular patents at issue. The complaint seeks, among other
remedies, preliminary and permanent injunctions, and damages. CRA has been informed
that NeuCo intends to contest the amended complaint vigorously.  

In connection with the ECL and Lee   Allen acquisitions
completed during fiscal 2005, and with the NECG and TCA acquisitions completed
in fiscal 2004, CRA agreed to pay additional consideration, in cash and CRA
stock, contingent on the achievement of certain performance targets by the
respective acquired businesses. CRA believes that it will have sufficient funds
to satisfy any obligations related to the contingent consideration. CRA expects
to fund these contingent cash payments, if any, from existing cash resources
and cash generated from operations.  

16. Supplemental Consolidated Balance Sheet
Information   

Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets   

Prepaid expenses and other assets consist of the following:  

18  

Accrued Expenses   

Accrued expenses consist of the following:  

19  

ITEM 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations   

Forward-Looking Statements   

Except for historical facts, the statements in this quarterly report
are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are merely our
current predictions of future events. These statements are inherently
uncertain, and actual events could differ materially from our predictions.
Important factors that could cause actual events to vary from our predictions
include those discussed below under the heading  Factors Affecting Future
Performance . We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements
to reflect new information or developments. We urge readers to review carefully
the risk factors described in this quarterly report and in the other documents
that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You can read these
documents at www.sec.gov.  

Our principal internet address is www.crai.com. Our website provides a
link to a third-party website through which our annual, quarterly, and current
reports, and amendments to those reports, are available free of charge. We
believe these reports are made available as soon as reasonably practicable
after we file them electronically with, or furnish them to, the SEC. We do not
maintain or provide any information directly to the third-party website, nor do
we check the accuracy of this website.  

Our website also includes information about our corporate governance
practices. The Investor Relations page of our website provides a link to a
web page where you can obtain a copy of our code of ethics applicable to
our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal
accounting officer.  

Critical Accounting Policies   

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of
operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to
make significant estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, at
the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Estimates in these consolidated financial
statements include, but are not limited to, allowance for doubtful accounts,
valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, depreciation of property and
equipment, valuation of stock-based compensation, valuation of acquired
intangible assets, accrued and deferred income taxes, and other accrued
expenses. These items are monitored and analyzed by management for changes in
facts and circumstances, and material changes in these estimates could occur in
the future. Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they
become known. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other
assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual
results may differ from our estimates if our assumptions based on past
experience or our other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially
accurate.  

A summary of the accounting policies that we believe are most critical
to understanding and evaluating our financial results is set forth below. This
summary should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial
statements and the related notes included in Item 1 of this quarterly report,
as well as in our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K.  

Revenue Recognition and Allowance for
Doubtful Accounts.   We derive substantially all of our
revenues from the performance of professional services. The contracts that we
enter into and operate under specify whether the engagement will be billed on a
time-and-materials or fixed-price basis. These engagements generally last three
to six months, although some of our engagements can be much longer in duration.
Each contract must be approved by one of our vice presidents. 

We recognize substantially all of our revenues under written service
contracts with our clients where the fee is fixed or determinable, as the
services are provided, and only in those situations where collection from the
client is reasonably assured. The majority of our revenue is derived from
time-and-materials service contracts. Revenues from time-and-materials service
contracts are recognized as the services are provided based upon hours worked
and contractually agreed-upon hourly rates, as well as a computer services fee
based upon hours worked. Revenues from fixed-price engagements are recognized
on a proportional performance method based on the ratio of costs incurred,
substantially all of which are labor-related, to the total estimated project
costs. Project costs are based on the direct salary and associated fringe
benefits of the consultants on the engagement plus all direct expenses incurred
to complete the engagement that are not reimbursed by the client. The
proportional performance method is used since reasonably dependable estimates
of the revenues and costs applicable to various stages of a contract can be
made, based on historical experience and terms set forth in the contract, and
are indicative of the level of benefit provided to our clients. Our fixed-price
contracts generally include a termination provision that reduces the agreement
to a time-and-materials contract in  

20  

the event of termination of the contract. There are no costs that are
deferred and amortized over the contract term. Our management maintains contact
with project managers to discuss the status of the projects and, for
fixed-price engagements, management is updated on the budgeted costs and
resources required to complete the project. These budgets are then used to
calculate revenue recognition and to estimate the anticipated income or loss on
the project. In the past, we have occasionally been required to commit
unanticipated additional resources to complete projects, which have resulted in
lower than anticipated income or losses on those contracts. We may experience
similar situations in the future. Provisions for estimated losses on contracts
are made during the period in which such losses become probable and can be
reasonably estimated. To date, such losses have not been significant.  

Revenues also include reimbursements, or expenses billed to clients,
including travel and other out-of-pocket expenses, outside consultants, and
other reimbursable expenses. These reimbursable expenses included in revenues
are as follows (in thousands):  

Our normal payment terms are 30 days from the invoice date. For
the twelve weeks ended February 17, 2006, and February 18, 2005, our
average days sales outstanding (DSOs) were 109 days and 103 days,
respectively. We calculate DSOs by dividing the sum of our accounts receivable
and unbilled services balance, net of deferred revenue, at the end of the
quarter by average daily revenues. Average daily revenues are calculated by dividing
quarter revenues by the number of days in a quarter. Our project managers and
finance personnel monitor payments from our clients and assess any collection
issues. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses
resulting from clients  failure to make required payments. We base our
estimates on our historical collection experience, current trends, and credit
policy. In determining these estimates, we examine historical write-offs of our
receivables and review client accounts to identify any specific customer
collection issues. If the financial condition of our customers were to
deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payment,
additional allowances may be required. Our failure to estimate accurately
the losses for doubtful accounts and ensure that payments are received on a
timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, and results of operations. As of both February 17, 2006, and November 26,
2005, $5.0 million was provided for doubtful accounts.  

Stock-based Compensation Expense.   In
December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 R, which replaces SFAS
No. 123  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , supersedes APB No. 25,
and amends SFAS No. 95  Statement of Cash Flows . SFAS No. 123R
requires us to recognize compensation expense for all share-based payments to
employees and directors, including grants of employee stock options, based on
the grant-date fair value of those share-based payments (with limited
exceptions), adjusted for expected forfeitures. In April 2005, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a final ruling that extended
the compliance date for SFAS No. 123R to the first interim or annual
reporting period of our first fiscal year that begins on or after June 15,
2005. We adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 using
the modified prospective application method. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R
in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we followed the intrinsic value method in
accordance with APB No. 25 to account for our employee stock options.
Historically, all stock options have been granted with an exercise price equal
to the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. Accordingly,
no compensation expense was recognized for option grants to employee and
directors. However, compensation expense was recognized in connection with the
issuance of stock options to non-employee consultants. SFAS No. 123R did not change the accounting for stock-based
compensation related to non-employees in connection with equity based incentive
arrangements. 

Under the fair value recognition requirements of SFAS No. 123R,
stock-based compensation cost is estimated at the grant date based on the fair
value of the award and is recognized as expense over the requisite service
period of the award. We recognize stock option expense using the straight-line
attribution method. Consistent with the valuation method we used for
disclosure-only purposes under the provisions of SFAS No. 123, we use the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of stock options.
Option valuation models require the input of assumptions, including the
expected life of stock options, the expected stock price volatility, the
risk-free interest rate, and the expected dividend yield. The expected
volatility and expected life are based on our historical experience. The
risk-free interest rate is based on US Treasury interest rates whose term is
consistent with the expected life of the stock options. Expected dividend yield
was not considered in the option pricing formula since we do not pay dividends
and have no current plans to do so in the future. We will update these
assumptions if  

21  

changes to the assumptions are warranted. The forfeiture rate used was
based upon historical experience. As required by SFAS No. 123R, we will
adjust the estimated forfeiture rate based upon our actual experience.  

As of February 17, 2006, there was $8.1 million of total unrecognized
compensation cost related to non-vested share-based compensation arrangements
granted under the Plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 1.3 years. For additional information, see Footnote
7 (Stock-Based Compensation) to our Consolidated Financial Statements above
under Item 1,  Financial Statements.   

We have submitted to our shareholders for approval at our annual
meeting to be held in April 2006 the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan. If our
shareholders approve the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, we expect that restricted
stock awards will become a significant part of our stock-based
compensation structure going forward. If our shareholders do not approve the
2006 Equity Incentive Plan, we will continue to evaluate our alternatives for
stock-based compensation.  

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.   We
account for acquisitions of consolidated companies under the purchase method of
accounting pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS ) No. 141
 Business Combinations  (SFAS No. 141). Goodwill represents the purchase
price of acquired businesses in excess of the fair market value of net assets
acquired. Intangible assets consist principally of non-competition agreements,
which are amortized on a straight-line basis over the related estimated lives
of the agreements (seven to ten years), as well as customer relationships,
backlog, trade names, and property leases, which are amortized on a
straight-line basis over their remaining useful lives (one to five years). 

In accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets  (SFAS No. 142), goodwill and intangible assets
with indefinite lives are not subject to amortization, but are monitored
annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indicators of
impairment. Any impairment would be measured based upon the fair value of the
related asset based on the provisions of SFAS No. 142. Because we
have one reporting segment, under SFAS No. 142, we utilize the
entity-wide approach for assessing goodwill for impairment and compare its
market value to its net book value to determine if an impairment exists. There
were no impairment losses related to goodwill in fiscal 2005, nor were there
any indications of impairment in the twelve weeks ended February 17, 2006.
If we determine through the impairment review process that goodwill has been
impaired, we would record the impairment charge in our consolidated statement
of income. The goodwill amounts for the ECL and Lee   Allen
acquisitions reflect management s preliminary purchase price allocations and
are subject to change. These preliminary purchase price allocations are based
upon management s estimates of respective fair values, and will be finalized as
we receive other information relevant to these acquisitions, including a
valuation and appraisal of the intangible assets acquired, and complete our
analysis of other transaction-related costs, such as restructuring activities
related to lease obligations.  

We assess the impairment of amortizable intangible assets whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not
be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment
review include the following:  

a significant underperformance relative to expected
historical or projected future operating results;  

a significant change in the manner of our use of the
acquired asset or the strategy for our overall business;  

a significant negative industry or economic trend;
and  

our market capitalization relative to net book
value.  

If we determine that an impairment review is required, we review the
expected future undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the assets. When we
determine that the carrying value of intangible assets may not be
recoverable, we measure any impairment based on a projected discounted cash
flow method using a discount rate determined by our management to be
commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. The
valuations related to the ECL and Lee   Allen acquisitions will be
finalized in fiscal 2006.  

22  

profitability in future periods, we recorded valuation allowances
during fiscal 2005 in certain of these foreign subsidiaries based on the facts
and circumstances affecting each subsidiary. Had we not recorded these
allowances, we would have reported a lower effective tax rate than was
recognized in our statements of income in fiscal 2005. We did not record any
valuation allowances during the first twelve weeks of fiscal 2006.  

If the realization of deferred tax assets in the future changes to be
considered more likely than not, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would
increase net income in the period such determination was made, unless such
adjustment related to purchased assets which would result in an adjustment to
goodwill instead of an increase in net income. The amount of the deferred tax
asset considered realizable is based on significant estimates, and it is at
least reasonably possible that changes in these estimates in the near term
could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our
effective tax rate may vary from period to period based on changes in
estimated taxable income or loss, changes to the valuation allowance, changes
to federal, state, or foreign tax laws, future expansion into areas with
varying country, state, and local income tax rates, deductibility of certain
costs and expenses by jurisdiction, differences in the tax deduction of
stock-based compensation as compared to the amounts previously provided for,
and as a result of acquisitions.  

The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with
uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in several
different tax jurisdictions. We are periodically reviewed by domestic and
foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These reviews
include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the
allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the
exposure associated with various filing positions, we record estimated reserves
for probable exposures. Based on our evaluation of current tax positions, we
believe that we have appropriately accrued for probable exposures.  

Accounting for Income Taxes.   We
record income taxes using the liability method. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized based upon anticipated future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective income tax bases, and
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Our financial statements contain
certain deferred tax assets and liabilities that result from temporary
differences between book and tax accounting, as well as net operating loss
carryforwards. SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes , requires the
establishment of a valuation allowance to reflect the likelihood of realization
of deferred tax assets. Significant management judgment is required in
determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and
liabilities, and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax
assets. We evaluate the weight of all available evidence to determine whether
it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred income tax
assets will not be realized. The decision to record a valuation allowance
requires varying degrees of judgment based upon the nature of the item giving
rise to the deferred tax asset. As a result of operating losses incurred in certain
of our foreign subsidiaries, and uncertainty as to the extent and timing of 

23  

Results of Operations Twelve Weeks Ended February 17,
2006, Compared to Twelve Weeks Ended February 18, 2005   

The following table provides operating information as a percentage of
revenues for the periods indicated:  

Revenues.   Revenues
increased $10.8 million, or 17.5%, to $72.5 million for the first
quarter of fiscal 2006 from $61.7 million for the first quarter of fiscal
2005. This growth is due primarily to an increased demand for our services, as
well as our acquisitions of ECL and Lee   Allen during the second and
third quarters of fiscal 2005, respectively. Our litigation revenues grew by
approximately 23% from the first quarter of 2005, which was largely driven by a
greater demand for our services primarily in our intellectual property and
finance practice areas, and the addition of our forensic accounting and
computing practice areas in the second quarter of fiscal 2005. Our intellectual
property practice grew by approximately 41% from the first quarter of fiscal
2005, due primarily to a continued trend of increasing demand for our services
in this practice area. Our finance practice increased by approximately 14% from
the first quarter of fiscal 2005, due primarily to increased demand for our
services in general securities litigation and other financial-based litigation.
For instance, we have an active pipeline of work relating to certain states 
investigation of business practices within the insurance industry, as well as
SEC scrutiny of market trading in the mutual fund industry. Our business
consulting revenues grew by approximately 8% from the first quarter of fiscal
2005, which was due primarily to our pharmaceuticals practice, and to a lesser
extent, our chemicals and petroleum practice, offset slightly by a decrease in
our energy and environmental practice. The growth in our pharmaceuticals
practice is due primarily to new projects related to recent Medicare changes
for both existing and new clients and on-going litigation projects related to
pharmaceutical pricing. Our chemicals and petroleum practice grew by
approximately 5%, due to an increase in demand for our services, particularly
in the Middle East. Our energy and environmental practice decreased by
approximately 5% from the first quarter of fiscal 2005, but continues to be our
largest business consulting practice in terms of revenue. Overall, revenues
outside of the United States represented approximately 19% of total revenues
for the first quarter of fiscal 2006, compared with 13% of total revenues for
the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The growth in revenue in our foreign offices
is primarily due to the acquisitions of Lee   Allen and ECL and the
increase in demand in our chemicals and petroleum practice, largely in the
Middle East. 

As a result of our acquisitions and the increased demand for our
services, there has been an increase in our average employee consultant
headcount. The total number of employee consultants increased to 667 at the end
of the first quarter of fiscal 2006 from 562 at the end of the first quarter of
fiscal 2005, which is primarily due to the ECL and Lee   Allen
acquisitions during fiscal 2005, as well as continued hiring and recruiting
efforts. Increased billing rates for our employee consultants, phased in
beginning in early December 2005, also contributed to our revenue growth.
Utilization was 78% for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared with 80% for
the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Revenues derived from fixed-price engagements
decreased to 3.3% of total revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 from
5.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2005.  

Costs of Services.   Costs
of services increased $8.1 million, or 21.9%, to $45.0 million for
the first quarter of fiscal 2006 from $36.9 million for the first quarter of
fiscal 2005. The increase was due mainly to an increase in compensation expense
for our 

24  

employee consultants of $6.9 million, attributable primarily to an
increase in the average number of employee consultants. Our average number of
employee consultants increased because of the ECL and Lee   Allen
acquisitions, as well as continued recruiting and hiring efforts. In addition,
included in the increase in compensation expense for our employee consultants
is stock-based compensation expense of $0.8 million due to the adoption of SFAS
No. 123R during the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Reimbursable expenses
increased $1.2 million, or 18.0%, to $7.6 million from
$6.5 million. As a percentage of revenues, costs of services increased to
62.0% for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 from 59.8% for the first quarter of
fiscal 2005. The increase as a percentage of revenue was due primarily to the
effect of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R during the first quarter of fiscal
2006, as well as higher direct compensation costs resulting from a higher
proportion of our revenue being sourced internally, the cost of which is
included in cost of services.  

Selling, General, and Administrative.   Selling,
general, and administrative expenses increased by $2.3 million, or 14.3%,
to $18.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 from
$15.8 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Largely because of the
ECL and Lee   Allen acquisitions, and the integration of these
companies during the latter part of fiscal 2005 and through the first
quarter of fiscal 2006, we experienced an increase in overall compensation to
our administrative staff of $0.9 million, an increase in legal,
accounting, and other professional fees of $0.7 million, an increase in rent
expense of $0.6 million, an increase in depreciation and amortization
expense of $0.3 million, and an increase in other selling, general, and
administrative expenses of $0.5 million. These increases were partially offset
by a decrease in commissions to non-employee experts of $0.7 million,
which was due primarily to a higher proportion of revenues sourced internally.
These increases were also due to our need to support a larger and more complex
global company. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general, and
administrative expenses decreased to 25.0% for the first quarter of fiscal 2006
from 25.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2005. This decrease is due primarily
to lower commissions to non-employee experts. . 

Interest Income.   Interest
income increased by $812,000 to $1.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal
2006 from $278,000 for the first quarter of fiscal 2005. This increase was due
primarily to higher average interest rates, combined with higher cash balances
from our June 2005 public stock offering and cash generated from
operations in fiscal 2006. Our weighted average imputed interest rate for the
first quarter of fiscal 2006 on our average cash and cash equivalent balances
was approximately 3.9% annualized compared with approximately 1.8% annualized
for the first quarter of fiscal 2005. 

Interest Expense.   Interest
expense increased by $40,000 to $803,000 for the first quarter of fiscal 2006
from $763,000 for the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Interest expense represents
primarily interest incurred on the 2.875%, $90 million convertible debt,
and the amortization of debt issuance costs. 

Other Expense.   Other
expense was $19,000 for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 versus $55,000 for the
first quarter of fiscal 2005. Other expense consists primarily of foreign
currency exchange transaction gains and losses. We continue to manage our
foreign currency exchange exposure through frequent settling of intercompany
account balances and by self-hedging movements in exchange rates between the
value of the dollar and foreign currencies. 

Provision for Income Taxes.   The
provision for income taxes was $4.1 million for the first quarter of
fiscal 2006, an increase of $137,000 from the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Our
effective income tax rate decreased to 42.3% for the first quarter of fiscal
2006 from 47.0% for the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The higher effective tax
rate during the first quarter of fiscal 2005 was due primarily to the valuation
allowance recorded against the deferred tax assets of our New Zealand
subsidiary in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. We expect our effective income
tax rate for fiscal 2006 to be in the range of 42% to 43%. 

Minority Interest.   Allocations
of the minority share of NeuCo s net income result in deductions to our net
income, while allocations of the minority share of NeuCo s net loss results in
additions to our net income. Minority interest in the results of operations of
NeuCo allocable to its other owners was a net loss of $37,000 for the first
quarter of fiscal 2006, compared with a net loss of $138,000 for the first
quarter of fiscal 2005. 

Net Income.   Net
income increased by $1.0 million, or 22.2%, to $5.6 million for the
first quarter of fiscal 2006 from $4.6 million for the first quarter of
fiscal 2005. Diluted net income per share increased 9.3% to $0.47 per share for
the first quarter of fiscal 2006 from $0.43 per share for the first quarter of
fiscal 2005. Net income increased at a greater rate than diluted net income per
share because diluted weighted average shares outstanding increased
1.3 million shares to approximately 12,116,000 shares for the quarter
ended February 17, 2006 from approximately 10,795,000 shares for the
quarter ended February 18, 2005. The increase in diluted weighted average
shares outstanding for fiscal 2006 is primarily a result of the public offering
of our common stock completed in June 2005 and stock option exercises
occurring after February 18, 2005. 

25  

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

General.   In the
twelve weeks ended February 17, 2006, we had a net increase in cash and
cash equivalents of $9.6 million. We completed the quarter with cash and
cash equivalents of $124.8 million, and working capital of
$157.4 million. 

On June 29, 2005, we completed a public offering of 1,899,227
shares of our common stock at a price of $53.75 per share. Of the 1,899,227
shares sold, 710,000 shares were offered by us and 1,189,227 came from selling
shareholders. We received net proceeds of approximately $35.9 million,
after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated offering expenses. As part of
the offering, we received additional net proceeds of approximately
$2.6 million from the exercise of options by the selling shareholders. The
net proceeds from the offering are intended to be used for general corporate
purposes, including working capital and possible acquisitions of and
investments in complementary businesses.  

On June 16, 2005, we completed the acquisition of ECL for
approximately $15.3 million valued using foreign exchange rates as of the
date of acquisition (after deducting cash acquired, and adding acquisition
costs and transaction fees paid or accrued). The $15.3 million purchase
price consisted of $11.5 million in cash and $3.8 million in loan
notes that were exchanged for 70,533 restricted shares of our common stock,
which carry restrictions with respect to when they can be sold. On April 27,
2005, we completed the acquisition of Lee   Allen for approximately
$17.1 million valued using foreign exchange rates as of the date of
acquisition (after deducting cash acquired, and adding acquisition costs and transaction
fees paid or accrued). The $17.1 million purchase price consisted of
$13.3 million in cash and $3.8 million in loan notes that were
exchanged for 77,343 restricted shares of our common stock, which carry
restrictions with respect to when they can be sold. We funded the cash portion
of the purchase price of the ECL and Lee   Allen acquisitions from
existing cash resources.  

We believe that current cash balances, cash generated from operations,
and amounts available under our bank line of credit will be sufficient to meet
our anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at
least the next 12 months.  

Sources of Cash in the twelve weeks ended February 17,
2006.   During the first twelve weeks of fiscal 2006, we
generated cash primarily from the following sources: $9.6 million provided
by our operating activities, and $1.4 million in proceeds from the
exercise of stock options. Cash provided by operating activities resulted
primarily from net income of $5.6 million, which included depreciation and
amortization expense of $2.0 million and stock-based compensation expense
of $1.0 million, and an increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and
other liabilities of $6.1 million, partially offset by an increase in unbilled
services of $4.1 million. 

Private Placement of Convertible Debt.   On
June 21, 2004, we completed a private placement of $75 million of
2.875% convertible senior subordinated debentures due 2034. On July 1,
2004, we sold an additional $15 million in principal amount of the
debentures. Holders of the debentures may convert them, only under certain
circumstances, including certain stock price-related conversion contingencies. 

As a result of our election on December 14, 2004, we must settle
the conversion of the debentures, as follows: (i) $1,000 in cash per
$1,000 principal amount of debentures converted; and (ii) in cash or
shares of our common stock (at our further election, except for cash in lieu of
fractional shares), any conversion obligation that exceeds the principal amount
of the debentures converted.  

Pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing the debentures, since
the closing stock price did not equal or exceed the $50 per share contingent
conversion trigger price for 20 out of 30 consecutive trading days ending on February 17,
2006, the market price conversion trigger was satisfied and holders of the
debentures were not able to exercise their right to convert the bonds as of the
first trading day of the second quarter of fiscal 2006. This test is repeated
each fiscal quarter. Therefore, since the holders of the debentures are not
able to exercise their right to convert the bonds as of February 17, 2006,
we have classified the $90 million convertible debt as long-term debt as
of February 17, 2006, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. In June 2005,
we amended our loan agreement with our bank to increase the existing line of
credit from $40 million to $90 million to mitigate the potential
liquidity risk, and to provide funding if required, in the event of conversion
by the debenture holders. We believe that in the event the contingent
conversion trigger price is met, it is unlikely that a significant percentage
of bondholders will exercise their right to convert because the debentures have
traded at a premium over their conversion value. The available line of credit
is reduced, as necessary, to account for certain letters of credit outstanding.
We had approximately $0.7 million of outstanding letters of credit as of February 17,
2006.  

26  

The debentures are our direct, unsecured senior subordinated
obligations and rank junior in right of payment to our existing bank line of
credit and any future secured indebtedness that we may designate as senior
indebtedness. Interest of approximately $1.3 million, is payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15. We will also be required to
pay contingent interest on the applicable interest payment date to the holders
of the debentures for the period commencing June 20, 2011, and ending December 14,
2011, if the average trading price of the debentures for each of the last five
trading days immediately preceding June 20, 2011, equals 125% or more of
the principal amount of the debentures. Thereafter, we will pay contingent
interest on the interest payment date for a six-month interest period if the
average trading price of the debentures during the five trading day period
immediately preceding the first day of the applicable six-month interest period
equals or exceeds 125% of the principal amount of the debentures. The
contingent interest payable per debenture will equal 0.25% of the average
trading price of such debenture during the applicable five trading day
reference period.  

We may elect to redeem all or any portion of the debentures on or
after June 20, 2011, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal
amount of the debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We may be
required to repurchase all or any portion of the debentures, at the option of
each holder, on June 15, 2011, June 15, 2014, June 15, 2019, June 15,
2024 and June 15, 2029, and upon certain specified fundamental changes, at
a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the debentures, plus accrued
and unpaid interest. Upon a fundamental change involving a change of control of
our firm, we may also be required to pay a make-whole premium which in
some cases could be substantial and which may be paid in cash, shares of
common stock, or a combination thereof, to the holders of debentures who elect
to require us to repurchase or convert debentures.  

Borrowings under the Revolving Line of
Credit.   We are party to a senior loan agreement with
our bank for a $90 million revolving line of credit with a maturity date
of April 30, 2007. Subject to the terms of the agreement, we may use
borrowings under this line of credit for acquisition financing, working
capital, general corporate purposes, letters of credit, and foreign exchanges
contracts. The available line of credit is reduced, as necessary, to account
for certain letters of credit outstanding. The $90 million credit facility
allows us to mitigate the potential liquidity risk, and to provide funding if
required, in the event of conversion by the debenture holders. Funds available
under the expanded facility will allow us to continue to classify up to
$90 million of our convertible debentures as long-term debt, rather than
short-term, and will give us additional flexibility to meet our unforeseen
financial requirements. Other than for letters of credit outstanding, there
were no amounts outstanding under this line of credit as of February 17,
2006, and the line of credit then available was $89.3 million. 

Borrowings under our credit facility bear interest, at our option,
either at LIBOR plus an applicable margin or at the prime rate. Applicable
margins range from 0.75% to 1.50%, depending on the ratio of our consolidated
total debt to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or EBITDA, for the preceding four fiscal quarters, subject to
various adjustments stated in the senior loan agreement. These margins are
adjusted both quarterly and each time we borrow under the credit facility.
Interest is payable monthly. A commitment fee of 0.165% is payable on the
unused portion of the credit facility. Borrowings under the credit facility are
secured by 100% of the stock of certain of our U.S. subsidiaries and by 65% of
the stock of certain of our foreign subsidiaries, amounting to net assets of
approximately $104.6 million as of February 17, 2006.  

Uses of Cash during the twelve weeks ended
February17, 2006.   During the first twelve weeks of
fiscal 2006, we used cash primarily for the purchase of capital expenditures,
which amounted to $1.6 million. 

During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we anticipate we will pay
approximately $30 million in bonuses to employee consultants earned in fiscal
2005. We also expect to pay approximately $1.1 million in additional
consideration related to the NECG and TCA acquisitions. This consideration was
contingent upon these acquired companies reaching certain revenue targets
following the transaction.  

Debt Restrictions.   Under
our senior credit agreement, we must comply with various financial and
non-financial covenants. The financial covenants require us to maintain a
minimum consolidated working capital of $25.0 million and require us to
comply with a consolidated total debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5 to
1.0 and a consolidated senior debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 2.0 to 1.0.
Compliance with these financial covenants is tested on a fiscal quarterly
basis. In March 2005, we amended the definition of  current liabilities 
included in the working capital covenant of the senior credit agreement to
exclude any convertible subordinated debt for which we have not been notified
of the intention to convert. The non-financial covenants of the senior credit
agreement prohibit us from paying dividends and place certain restrictions on
our ability to incur additional indebtedness, repurchase our securities, engage
in acquisitions or dispositions, and enter into business combinations. Any
indebtedness outstanding under the senior credit facility may become
immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of stated events of default,
including our failure to pay principal, interest or fees or a violation of any
financial covenant. 

As of February 17, 2006, we were in compliance with our covenants
under the senior credit agreement.  

27  

Other Matters.   As part of
our business, we regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire other consulting
firms, practices or groups or other businesses. In recent years, we have
typically paid for acquisitions with cash, or a combination of cash and our
common stock, and we may continue to do so in the future. To pay for an
acquisition, we may use cash on hand, cash generated from our operations
or borrowings under our revolving credit facility, or we may pursue other
forms of financing. Our ability to secure short-term and long-term debt or
equity financing in the future will depend on several factors, including our
future profitability, the levels of our debt and equity, restrictions under our
existing line of credit with our bank, and the overall credit and equity market
environments. 

In connection with our acquisition of InteCap, certain InteCap
employees purchased an aggregate of 87,316 shares of common stock in exchange
for full recourse, interest-bearing notes, maturing in June 2007, totaling
approximately $2.9 million. These notes, net of principal payments
received, are recorded as a reduction of shareholders  equity as of February 17,
2006.  

Also in connection with our acquisition of InteCap, we owe amounts to
certain former InteCap employees in connection with the InteCap deferred
compensation plan that was established prior to the acquisition. These amounts,
including accrued interest, will be paid in April 2007, and are included
in non-current liabilities as of February 17, 2006.  

In connection with the ECL and Lee   Allen acquisitions, we
are expecting to incur restructuring costs to eliminate duplicate offices. Such
costs have not yet been determined, but most of these costs are expected to be
recognized in fiscal 2006 as a liability assumed as of the acquisition date,
resulting in additional goodwill.  

Contingencies.   In
connection with the ECL and Lee   Allen acquisitions completed during
fiscal 2005, and with the NECG and TCA acquisitions completed in fiscal 2004,
we agreed to pay additional consideration, in cash, and our stock with certain
of these acquisitions, contingent on the achievement of certain performance
targets by the respective acquired businesses. We believe that we will have
sufficient funds to satisfy any obligations related to the contingent
consideration. We expect to fund these contingent cash payments, if any, from
existing cash resources and cash generated from operations. 

Impact of Inflation.   To
date, inflation has not had a material impact on our financial results. There
can be no assurance, however, that inflation will not adversely affect our
financial results in the future. 

28  

Factors Affecting Future Performance   

Part II, Item 1A of this quarterly report sets
forth risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements
contained in this quarterly report. If any of these risks, or any risks not
presently known to us or that we currently believe are not significant,
develops into an actual event, then our business, financial condition, and
results of operations could be adversely affected.  

ITEM 3. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk   

As of February 17, 2006, we were exposed to market risks, which
include primarily changes in U.S. interest rates and foreign currency exchange
rates.  

We maintain a portion of our investments in financial instruments with
purchased maturities of one year or less and a portion of our investments in financial
instruments with purchased maturities of two years or less. These financial
instruments are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if
interest rates increase. Because these financial instruments are readily
marketable, an immediate increase in interest rates would not have a material
effect on our financial position.  

We are subject to risk from changes in foreign exchange rates for our
subsidiaries that use a foreign currency as their functional currency. We
currently manage our foreign exchange exposure through frequent settling of
intercompany account balances and by self-hedging our foreign dollar position.
We do not currently enter into foreign exchange agreements to hedge our
exposure, but we may do so in the future.  

ITEM 4. Controls and Procedures   

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures   

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial
Officer, we evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon that
evaluation, our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial
Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to
provide reasonable assurance that we record, process, summarize and report the
information we must disclose in reports that we file or submit under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, within the time periods specified
in the SEC s rules and forms.  

Evaluation of Changes in Internal Control
over Financial Reporting   

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial
Officer, we have determined that, during the first quarter of fiscal 2006,
there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that
have affected, or are reasonably likely to affect, materially our internal
control over financial reporting.  

Important Considerations   

The effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our
internal control over financial reporting is subject to various inherent
limitations, including cost limitations, judgments used in decision making,
assumptions about the likelihood of future events, the soundness of our
systems, the possibility of human error, and the risk of fraud. Moreover,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions and the risk that the degree of compliance with policies or
procedures may deteriorate over time. Because of these limitations, there
can be no assurance that any system of disclosure controls and procedures or
internal control over financial reporting will be successful in preventing all
errors or fraud or in making all material information known in a timely manner
to the appropriate levels of management.  

29  

PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION   

ITEM 1.
Legal Proceedings   

On March 15, 2005, Pegasus Technologies, Inc. filed a
complaint against our subsidiary NeuCo, Inc. in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Civil Action No. 1:05-CV-736,
alleging patent infringement. The complaint was subsequently amended on May 10,
2005 to specify particular patents at issue. The complaint seeks, among other
remedies, preliminary and permanent injunctions, and damages. We have been
informed that NeuCo intends to contest the amended complaint vigorously.  

ITEM
1A. Risk Factors   

Our operations are subject to a number of risks. You should carefully
read and consider the following risk factors, together with all other
information in this report, in evaluating our business. If any of these risks,
or any risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not
significant, develops into an actual event, then our business, financial
condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. If that
happens, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose
all or part of your investment.  

We depend upon key
employees to generate revenue    

Our business consists primarily of the delivery of professional
services, and accordingly, our success depends heavily on the efforts,
abilities, business generation capabilities, and project execution capabilities
of our employee consultants. In particular, our employee consultants  personal
relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and
maintaining client engagements. If we lose the services of any employee
consultant or if our employee consultants fail to generate business or
otherwise fail to perform effectively, that loss or failure could
adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We do not have
non-compete agreements with the majority of our employee consultants, and they
can terminate their relationships with us at will and without notice. The
non-competition and non-solicitation agreements that we have with some of our
employee consultants offer us only limited protection and may not be
enforceable in every jurisdiction.  

We depend on our
non-employee experts    

We depend on our relationships with our exclusive non-employee experts.
In fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, six of our exclusive non-employee experts
generated engagements that accounted for approximately 13% and 18% of our
revenues in those years, excluding fees charged to the engagement by the
non-employee expert and reimbursable expenses, respectively. We believe that
these experts are highly regarded in their fields and that each offers a
combination of knowledge, experience, and expertise that would be very
difficult to replace. We also believe that we have been able to secure some
engagements and attract consultants in part because we could offer the
services of these experts. Most of these experts can limit their relationships
with us at any time for any reason. These reasons could include affiliations
with universities with policies that prohibit accepting specified engagements, the
pursuit of other interests, and retirement.  

As of February 17, 2006, we had non-competition agreements with 43
of our non-employee experts. The limitation or termination of any of their
relationships with us, or competition from any of them after these agreements
expire, could harm our reputation, reduce our business opportunities and
adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.  

To meet our long-term growth targets, we need to establish ongoing
relationships with additional non-employee experts who have reputations as
leading experts in their fields. We may be unable to establish
relationships with any additional non-employee experts. In addition, any
relationships that we do establish may not help us meet our objectives or
generate the revenues or earnings that we anticipate.  

Our failure to
manage growth successfully could adversely affect our revenues and results of
operations    

Any failure on our part to manage growth successfully could
adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Over the last several
years, we have continued to open offices in new geographic areas, including
foreign locations, and to expand our employee base as a result of internal
growth and acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions of ECL, Lee  
Allen, NECG, TCA, and InteCap. We expect that this trend will continue over the
long term. Opening and managing new offices often requires extensive management
supervision and increases our overall selling, general, and administrative
expenses. Expansion creates new  

30  

and increased management, consulting, and training responsibilities for
our employee consultants. Expansion also increases the demands on our internal
systems, procedures, and controls, and on our managerial, administrative,
financial, marketing, and other resources. We depend heavily upon the
managerial, operational, and administrative skills of our officers,
particularly James C. Burrows, our President and Chief Executive Officer, to
manage our expansion. New responsibilities and demands may adversely
affect the overall quality of our work.  

Our entry into new
lines of business could adversely affect our results of operations    

If we attempt to develop new practice areas or lines of business
outside our core economic and business consulting services, those efforts could
harm our results of operations. Our efforts in new practice areas or new lines
of business involve inherent risks, including risks associated with
inexperience and competition from mature participants in the markets we enter.
Our inexperience may result in costly decisions that could harm our
business.  

Clients can
terminate engagements with us at any time    

Many of our engagements depend upon disputes, proceedings, or
transactions that involve our clients. Our clients may decide at any time
to seek to resolve the dispute or proceeding, abandon the transaction, or file
for bankruptcy. Our engagements can therefore terminate suddenly and without
advance notice to us. If an engagement is terminated unexpectedly, our employee
consultants working on the engagement could be underutilized until we assign
them to other projects. In addition, because much of our work is project-based
rather than recurring in nature, our consultants  utilization depends on our
ability to secure additional engagements on a continual basis. Accordingly, the
termination or significant reduction in the scope of a single large engagement
could reduce our utilization and have an immediate adverse impact on our
revenues and results of operations.  

We depend on our
antitrust and mergers and acquisitions consulting business    

We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from engagements in our
antitrust and mergers and acquisitions practice areas. Any substantial
reduction in the number or size of our engagements in these practice areas
could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We derived
significant revenues from engagements relating to enforcement of United States
antitrust laws. Changes in federal antitrust laws, changes in judicial
interpretations of these laws, or less vigorous enforcement of these laws as a
result of changes in political appointments or priorities or for other reasons
could substantially reduce our revenues from engagements in this area. In
addition, adverse changes in general economic conditions, particularly
conditions influencing the merger and acquisition activity of larger companies,
could adversely affect engagements in which we assist clients in proceedings
before the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. An
economic slowdown may have an adverse effect on mergers and acquisitions
activity, which would reduce the number and scope of our engagements in this
practice area. Any such downturn would adversely affect our revenues and
results of operations.  

We derive our
revenues from a limited number of large engagements    

We derive a portion of our revenues from a limited number of large
engagements. If we do not obtain a significant number of new large engagements
each year, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could
suffer. In general, the volume of work we perform for any particular
client varies from year to year, and due to the specific engagement nature of
our practice, a major client in one year may not hire us in the following
year.  

We enter into
fixed-price engagements    

We derive a portion of our revenues from fixed-price contracts. These
contracts are more common in our business consulting practice, and would likely
grow in number with any expansion of that practice. If we fail to estimate
accurately the resources required for a fixed-price project or fail to satisfy
our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project budget, we
might generate a smaller profit or incur a loss on the project. On occasion, we
have had to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete projects, and
we may have to take similar action in the future, which could adversely
affect our revenues and results of operations.  

Our business could
suffer if we are unable to hire additional qualified consultants as employees    

Our business continually requires us to hire highly qualified, highly
educated consultants as employees. Our failure to recruit and retain a
significant number of qualified employee consultants could limit our ability to
accept or complete engagements and adversely affect our revenues and results of
operations. Relatively few potential employees meet our hiring  

31  

criteria, and we face significant competition for these employees from
our direct competitors, academic institutions, government agencies, research
firms, investment banking firms, and other enterprises. Many of these competing
employers are able to offer potential employees significantly greater
compensation and benefits or more attractive lifestyle choices, career paths,
or geographic locations than we can. Competition for these employee consultants
has increased our labor costs, and a continuation of this trend could adversely
affect our margins and results of operations.  

Acquisitions may disrupt
our operations or adversely affect our results    

We regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire other businesses. The
expenses we incur evaluating and pursuing acquisitions could adversely affect
our results of operations. If we acquire a business, such as our recent
acquisitions of ECL, Lee   Allen, NECG, TCA, and InteCap, we may be
unable to manage it profitably or successfully integrate its operations with
our own. Moreover, we may be unable to realize the financial, operational,
and other benefits we anticipate from these acquisitions or any other
acquisition. Competition for future acquisition opportunities in our markets
could increase the price we pay for businesses we acquire and could reduce the
number of potential acquisition targets. Further, acquisitions may involve
a number of special financial and business risks, such as:  

charges related to any potential acquisition from
which we may withdraw;  

diversion of our management s time, attention, and
resources;  

decreased utilization during the integration
process;  

loss of key acquired personnel;  

increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial,
operational, financial, and administrative systems including compliance with
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;  

dilutive issuances of equity securities, including
convertible debt securities;  

the assumption of legal liabilities;  

amortization of acquired intangible assets;  

potential write-offs related to the impairment of
goodwill;  

difficulties in integrating diverse corporate
cultures; and  

additional conflicts of interests.  

Our international
operations create special risks    

We may continue our international expansion, and our international
revenues may account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the
future. Our international operations carry special financial and business
risks, including:  

greater difficulties in managing and staffing
foreign operations;  

cultural differences that result in lower
utilization;  

currency fluctuations that adversely affect our
financial position and operating results;  

unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory
requirements, tariffs, and other barriers;  

greater difficulties in collecting accounts
receivable;  

longer sales cycles;  

restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;  

32  

potentially adverse tax consequences, such as
trapped foreign losses;  

less stable political and economic environments; and  

civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that
reduce business activity.  

Particularly as a result of our acquisition in May 2002 of certain
assets of the U.K. operations of the Chemicals and Energy Vertical consulting
practice of the then Arthur D. Little corporation (Arthur D. Little
is now known as Dehon, Inc.), we conduct a portion of our business in the
Middle East. The ongoing military conflicts in the region have significantly
interrupted our business operations in that region and have slowed the flow of
new opportunities and proposals, which ultimately have adversely affected our
revenues and results of operations.  

If our international revenues increase relative to our total revenues,
these factors could have a more pronounced effect on our operating results.  

Our debt obligations
may adversely impact our financial performance    

In June and July of 2004, we issued a total of
$90.0 million of 2.875% convertible senior subordinated debentures due
2034. We have previously operated with little or no debt, and our previous
payments of interest have not been material. The interest we will be required
to pay on these debentures will reduce our net income each year until the
debentures are no longer outstanding. The terms of the debentures also include
provisions that could accelerate our obligation to repay all amounts
outstanding under the debentures if certain events happen, such as our failure
to pay interest in a timely manner, failure to pay principal upon redemption or
repurchase, failure to deliver cash, shares of common stock, or other property
upon conversion and other specified events of default. In addition, on June 15,
2011, June 15, 2014, June 15, 2019, June 15, 2024 and June 15,
2029, or following specified fundamental changes, holders of the debentures may require
us to repurchase their debentures for cash. On December 14, 2004, we
irrevocably elected to settle with cash 100% of the principal amount of the
debentures upon conversion thereof, and holders of the debentures may convert
them if our stock price exceeds $50 per share for at least 20 out of 30
consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal
quarter. Because the closing price of our common stock did not equal or exceed
the $50 per share contingent conversion trigger price for 20 out of 30
consecutive trading days ending on February 17, 2006, holders of the
debentures are not able to exercise their right to convert the bonds during our
second fiscal quarter ended May 12, 2006. However, this test is repeated
each fiscal quarter and has been met previously. On June 20, 2005, we
amended our loan agreement with our bank to increase the existing line of
credit from $40 million to $90 million to mitigate the potential
liquidity risk, and to provide funding if required, in the event of conversion
by the debenture holders. We intend to use the amounts available under our bank
line of credit, in the event debenture holders exercise their rights to
convert. The degree to which we are leveraged could adversely affect our
ability to obtain further financing for working capital, acquisitions or other
purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and
competitive pressures.  

Our clients may be
unable to pay us for our services    

Our clients include some companies that may from time to time
encounter financial difficulties. If a client s financial difficulties become
severe, the client may be unwilling or unable to pay our invoices in the
ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect collections of both
our accounts receivable and unbilled services. On occasion, some of our clients
have entered bankruptcy, which has prevented us from collecting amounts owed to
us. The bankruptcy of a client with a substantial account receivable could
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A small
number of clients who have paid sizable invoices later declared bankruptcy, and
a court determination that we were not properly entitled to that payment may require
repayment of some or all of the amount we received, which could adversely
affect our financial condition and results of operations.  

Fluctuations in our
quarterly revenues and results of operations could depress the market price of
our common stock    

We may experience significant fluctuations in our revenues and
results of operations from one quarter to the next. If our revenues or net
income in a quarter or our guidance for future periods fall below the
expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our
common stock could fall significantly. Our results of operations in any quarter
can fluctuate for many reasons, including:  

the number of weeks in our fiscal quarter;  

33  

the number, scope, and timing of ongoing client
engagements;  

the extent to which we can reassign our employee
consultants efficiently from one engagement to the next;  

the extent to which our employee consultants take
holiday, vacation, and sick time;  

employee hiring;  

the extent of fees discounting or cost overruns;  

fluctuations in revenues and results of operations
of our software subsidiary, NeuCo;  

severe weather conditions and other factors
affecting employee productivity; and  

collectibility of receivables and unbilled work in
process.  

Because we generate the majority of our revenues from consulting
services that we provide on an hourly fee basis, our revenues in any period are
directly related to the number of our employee consultants, their billing
rates, and the number of billable hours they work in that period. We have a
limited ability to increase any of these factors in the short term.
Accordingly, if we underutilize our consultants during one part of a
fiscal period, we may be unable to compensate by augmenting revenues
during another part of that period. In addition, we are occasionally
unable to utilize fully any additional consultants that we hire, particularly
in the quarter in which we hire them. Moreover, a significant majority of our operating
expenses, primarily office rent and salaries, are fixed in the short term. As a
result, if our revenues fail to meet our projections in any quarter, that could
have a disproportionate adverse effect on our net income. For these reasons, we
believe our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of
our future performance.  

Potential conflicts
of interests may preclude us from accepting some engagements    

We provide our services primarily in connection with significant or
complex transactions, disputes, or other matters that are usually adversarial
or that involve sensitive client information. Our engagement by a client may preclude
us from accepting engagements with the client s competitors or adversaries
because of conflicts between their business interests or positions on disputed
issues or other reasons. Accordingly, the nature of our business limits the
number of both potential clients and potential engagements. Our recent
acquisitions of ECL, Lee   Allen, NECG, TCA, and InteCap have
significantly expanded our client base, which may increase the frequency
with which we encounter conflicts of interest. Moreover, in many industries in
which we provide consulting services, such as in the telecommunications
industry, there has been a continuing trend toward business consolidations and
strategic alliances. These consolidations and alliances reduce the number of
potential clients for our services and increase the chances that we will be
unable to continue some of our ongoing engagements or accept new engagements as
a result of conflicts of interests.  

Maintaining our
professional reputation is crucial to our future success    

Our ability to secure new engagements and hire qualified consultants as
employees depends heavily on our overall reputation as well as the individual
reputations of our employee consultants and principal non-employee experts.
Because we obtain a majority of our new engagements from existing clients or
from referrals by those clients, any client that is dissatisfied with our
performance on a single matter could seriously impair our ability to secure new
engagements. Given the frequently high-profile nature of the matters on which
we work, any factor that diminishes our reputation or the reputations of any of
our employee consultants or non-employee experts could make it substantially
more difficult for us to compete successfully for both new engagements and
qualified consultants.  

Competition from
other economic and business consulting firms could hurt our business    

The market for economic and business consulting services is intensely
competitive, highly fragmented, and subject to rapid change. We may be
unable to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with any new
competitors. In general, there are few barriers to entry into our markets, and
we expect to face additional competition from new entrants into the economic
and business consulting industries. In the legal and regulatory consulting
market, we compete primarily with other economic and financial consulting firms
and individual academics. In the business consulting market, we compete
primarily with other business  

34  

and management consulting firms, specialized or industry-specific
consulting firms, the consulting practices of large accounting firms, and the
internal professional resources of existing and potential clients. Many of our
competitors have national or international reputations as well as significantly
greater personnel, financial, managerial, technical, and marketing resources
than we do, which could enhance their ability to respond more quickly to
technological changes, to finance acquisitions, and to fund internal growth.
Some of our competitors also have a significantly broader geographic presence
than we do.  

Our engagements may result
in professional liability    

Our services typically involve difficult analytical assignments and
carry risks of professional and other liability. Many of our engagements
involve matters that could have a severe impact on the client s business, cause
the client to lose significant amounts of money, or prevent the client from
pursuing desirable business opportunities. Accordingly, if a client is
dissatisfied with our performance, the client could threaten or bring
litigation in order to recover damages or to contest its obligation to pay our
fees. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently or otherwise breached
our obligations to the client could expose us to significant liabilities and
tarnish our reputation.  

We could incur
substantial costs protecting our proprietary rights from infringement or
defending against a claim of infringement    

As a professional services organization, we rely on non-competition and
non-solicitation agreements with many of our employees and non-employee experts
to protect our proprietary business interests. These agreements, however, may offer
us only limited protection and may not be enforceable in every
jurisdiction. In addition, we may incur substantial costs trying to
enforce these agreements.  

Our services may involve the development of custom business
processes or solutions for specific clients. In some cases, the clients retain
ownership or impose restrictions on our ability to use the business processes
or solutions developed from these projects. Issues relating to the ownership of
business processes or solutions can be complicated, and disputes could arise
that affect our ability to resell or reuse business processes or solutions we
develop for clients.  

In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United
States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We could incur
substantial costs in prosecuting or defending any intellectual property
litigation. For example, our NeuCo subsidiary has recently been sued for patent
infringement by one of its competitors. While NeuCo is contesting the
complaint, they cannot be certain that they will prevail. See Part II,
Item 1, Legal Proceedings, for more detail on this matter. NeuCo may be
required to incur substantial costs in defending this litigation or other
similar litigation in the future, which could adversely affect our operating
results and financial condition.  

Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized
parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as
proprietary. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our
proprietary rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and
scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of
infringement or invalidity. Any such resulting litigation could result in
substantial costs and diversion of resources and could adversely affect our
business, operating results and financial condition. Any failure by us to
protect our proprietary rights could adversely affect our business, operating
results and financial condition.  

Our reported
earnings per share may be more volatile because of the accounting
standards, rules, and regulations as they relate to the dilutive effect of our
convertible senior subordinated debentures    

Holders of our 2.875% convertible senior subordinated debentures due
2034 may convert the debentures only under certain circumstances,
including certain stock price-related conversion contingencies. Under
accounting regulations effective for periods through December 15, 2004,
until the contingent conversion condition was met, any shares underlying our
debentures were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
Under current accounting regulations, effective for periods ending after December 15,
2004, contingently convertible securities should be included in diluted
earnings per share computations regardless of whether a stock price-related
conversion contingency has been met. Under a proposed amendment to SFAS No. 128,
in order to remain under the treasury stock method of accounting, issuers of
debentures such as ours must commit, contractually and irrevocably, to settle
the par value of the debentures in cash. On December 14, 2004, we elected,
contractually and irrevocably, to settle the par value of our debentures with
cash. As a result of our election, we must settle the conversion of the
debentures, as follows: (i) $1,000 in cash per $1,000 principal amount of
debentures converted; and (ii) in cash or shares of our common stock (at
our further election, except for cash in lieu of fractional shares), any
conversion obligation that exceeds the principal amount of the debentures
converted.  

35  

We will continue to determine the effect of the debentures on earnings
per share under the treasury stock method of accounting. The treasury stock
method of accounting allows us to report dilution only when our average stock
price per share for the reporting period exceeds the $40 conversion price and
only to the extent of the additional shares we may be required to issue in
the event our conversion obligation exceeds the principal amount of the
debentures converted. For the first $1 per share that our average stock price
exceeds the $40 conversion price of the debentures, we will include
approximately 55,000 additional shares in our diluted share count. For the
second $1 per share that our average stock price exceeds the $40 conversion
price, we will include approximately 52,000 additional shares, for a total of
approximately 107,000 shares, in our diluted share count, and so on, with the
additional shares  dilution falling for each $1 per share that our average
stock price exceeds $40 if the stock price rises further above $40 (see table,
below).  

TREASURY  METHOD OF ACCOUNTING FOR SHARE
DILUTION   

Formula:    

Number of extra dilutive shares created  
    = ((Stock Price - Conversion Price)* Underlying Shares)/Stock Price  

Condition:    

Only applies when share price exceeds $40  

Accordingly, volatility in our stock price could cause volatility in
our reported diluted earnings per share.  

The market price of
our common stock may be volatile    

The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely and may continue
to do so. For example, from February 18, 2005, to February 17, 2006,
the trading price of our common stock ranged from a high of $58.47 per share to
a low of $40.23 per share. Many factors could cause the market price of our
common stock to rise and fall. Some of these factors are:  

variations in our quarterly results of operations;  

the hiring or departure of key personnel or
non-employee experts;  

changes in our professional reputation;  

the introduction of new services by us or our
competitors;  

acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or
our competitors;  

changes in accounting principles or methods, such as
SFAS No. 123R  SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004)  Share-Based Payment   

changes in estimates of our performance or
recommendations by securities analysts;  

36  

future sales of shares of common stock in the public
market; and  

market conditions in the industry and the economy as
a whole.  

In addition, the stock market has recently experienced significant
price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the
operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely
affect the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company s
stock drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action
litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to
incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and
other resources, or otherwise harm our business.  

Our charter and
by-laws and Massachusetts law may deter takeovers    

Our amended and restated articles of organization and amended and
restated by-laws and Massachusetts law contain provisions that could have
anti-takeover effects and that could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in
control or an acquisition that our shareholders and debenture holders may find
attractive. These provisions may also discourage proxy contests and make
it more difficult for our shareholders to take some corporate actions,
including the election of directors. These provisions could limit the price
that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock.  

ITEM 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds   

None.  

ITEM 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities   

None.  

ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.  

ITEM 5.
Other Information   

None.  

ITEM
6. Exhibits   

37  

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  

CRA INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

Date: March 29, 2006   

By:  

/s/ JAMES C. BURROWS  

James C. Burrows  
     President, Chief Executive Officer   

Date: March 29, 2006   

By:  

/s/ WAYNE D. MACKIE  

Wayne D. Mackie  
     Vice President, Treasurer,   
     Chief Financial Officer   
     (Principal Financial and Accounting
  Officer)   

38  

EXHIBIT INDEX   

39  

10-Q
 2
 a2168875zf1_10-q.pdf
 FORM 10-Q

<EX-31.1>
 3
 a2168875zex-31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 31.1   

CERTIFICATION   

I, James C. Burrows, President and Chief Executive Officer of CRA
International, Inc. certify that:  

1.                                          I
have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of CRA International, Inc.; 

2.                                          Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.                                          Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.                                          The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

a)                                         Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)                                    Designed such internal
control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of the financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)                                         Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d)                                        Disclosed in this
report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.                                          The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a)                                         All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect
adversely the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b)                                        Any fraud, whether
or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 29, 2006  

By:  

/s/ James C. Burrows  

James C. Burrows  

President, Chief Executive Officer  

1  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 4
 a2168875zex-31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 31.2   

CERTIFICATION   

I, Wayne D. Mackie, Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial
Officer of CRA International, Inc. certify that:  

1.                                          I
have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of CRA International, Inc.; 

2.                                          Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.                                          Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.                                          The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

a)                                         Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)                                    Designed such internal
control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of the financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)                                         Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d)                                        Disclosed in this
report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.                                          The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a)                                         All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect
adversely the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b)                                        Any fraud, whether
or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 29, 2006  

By:  

/s/ Wayne D. Mackie  

Wayne D. Mackie  

Vice President, Treasurer, and  

Chief Financial Officer  

1  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 5
 a2168875zex-32_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 32.1   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   

   18 U.S.C.  1350,   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of CRA
International, Inc. (the  Company ) for the quarter ended February 17,
2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof
(the  Report ), each of the undersigned President and Chief Executive Officer
and Vice President, Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
certifies, to the best knowledge and belief of the signatory, pursuant to 18
U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002, that:  

(1)                                     The Report fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)                                     The information
contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ James C. Burrows  

/s/ Wayne D. Mackie  

James C. Burrows  

Wayne D. Mackie  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Vice President, Treasurer,  

Date: March 29, 2006  

and Chief Financial Officer  

Date: March 29, 2006  

1  

</EX-32.1>

