<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060208_10-Q_edgar_data_26076_0001104659-06-006678_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>396724</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>33191</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>267225</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>14</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-006678.hdr.sgml : 20060208
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060207201027
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-006678
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060208
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060207

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CUBIC CORP /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000026076
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC [3829]
		IRS NUMBER:				951678055
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08931
		FILM NUMBER:		06586938

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		9333 BALBOA AVE
		CITY:			SAN DIEGO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92123
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6192776780

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		PO BOX 85587
		CITY:			SAN DIEGO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92186-5587

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 KsL9rcEupWvB5YVUdLt287GmLAyTCd01iOStNeFsbiX1lp2B3fmWVSD0Chwquf9B
 WozdJzKOY6dWeiaols4Z6w==

 0001104659-06-006678.txt : 20060208

10-Q
 1
 a06-4416_110q.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-Q   

QUARTERLY REPORT   

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934   

For the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005   

1-8931   

  Commission File Number  

CUBIC CORPORATION   

  Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter  

9333 Balboa Avenue   

   San Diego, California 92123   

   Telephone (858) 277-6780   

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  

Yes          No   o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act).  

Large
  accelerated filer   o  

Accelerated
  filer      

Non-accelerated
  filer   o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
defined in Rule 12-b-2 of the Exchange Act).  

Yes    o     No      

As of January 31, 2006, Registrant had only one class of common
stock of which there were 26,719,845 shares outstanding (after deducting
8,944,884 shares held as treasury stock).  

PART I - FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

  ITEM 1 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

CUBIC
CORPORATION   

  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)  

  (amounts in thousands, except per share data)  

See accompanying notes.   

2  

CUBIC CORPORATION   

  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  

  (in thousands)  

Note: The
balance sheet at September 30, 2005 has been derived from the audited
financial statements at that date.   

   See accompanying notes.   

3  

CUBIC CORPORATION   

  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)  

  (in thousands)  

See accompanying notes.   

4  

CUBIC
CORPORATION    

  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

  (UNAUDITED)  

December 31, 2005  

Note 1   Basis for
Presentation   

The accompanying unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements
have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q
and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all
information and footnotes required by accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States for complete financial statements.  

In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal
recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been
included. Operating results for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 are
not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year
ending September 30, 2006. For further information, refer to the
consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company s
annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005.  

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U. S. generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  

Note 2
  Balance Sheet Details   

The components of accounts receivable are as follows (in thousands):  

5  

The amount classified as
not currently due is an estimate of the amount of long-term contract accounts
receivable that will not be collected within one year from December 31,
2005. Of this amount, approximately $20 million relates to the Prestige
contract in the United Kingdom, which is a transportation systems contract.  

Inventories consist of
the following (in thousands):  

At December 31,
2005, work in process and inventoried costs under long-term contracts includes
approximately $5.5 million in costs incurred outside the scope of work on several
contracts, primarily in the defense segment. Such costs were $5.8 million as of
September 30, 2005.  Management
believes it is probable these costs, plus appropriate profit margin, will be
recovered under contract change orders within the next year.  

Note 3   Comprehensive Income   

Comprehensive income (loss) is as follows (in thousands):   

6  

Note 4
  Segment Information   

Business segment financial data is as follows (in millions):  

Note 5
  Financing Arrangements   

The
Company has a committed five-year revolving credit agreement with a group of
financial institutions in the amount of $150 million until March 2010. As
of December 31, 2005, $21 million was outstanding under this agreement at
a rate of 5.2% and is included in current liabilities because it is management s
intent to repay the borrowing within one year.  

As of December 31, 2005,
including the amount above, the Company had a total of $25.3 million
outstanding under its various unsecured short-term borrowing arrangements in
the U.S., UK, Canada and New Zealand at an average rate of 5.0%.  

7  

Note 6
  Pension Plans   

The components of net periodic pension benefits costs are as follows
(in thousands):  

8  

CUBIC
CORPORATION   

  ITEM 2 - MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL  

  CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS  

December 31, 2005  

Our two primary businesses are in the defense and transportation industries. These are high technology businesses that design, manufacture and integrate complex systems and provide essential services to meet the needs of various federal and regional government agencies in the U.S. and other nations around the world.       

  Cubic Defense Applications is a diversified supplier
of constructive, live and virtual military training systems, services and
communication systems and products to the U.S. Department of Defense, other
government agencies and allied nations. We design instrumented range systems
for fighter aircraft, armored vehicles and infantry force-on-force live
training; weapons effects simulations; laser-based tactical engagement and
virtual simulation systems; and precision gunnery solutions. Our services are
focused on training mission support, computer simulation training, distributed
interactive simulation, development of military training doctrine, force
modernization services for NATO entrants and field operations and maintenance.
Our communications products are aimed at intelligence, surveillance, and search
and rescue markets.  

Cubic Transportation Systems develops and delivers
innovative fare collection systems for public transit authorities
worldwide.  We provide hardware, software
and multi-agency, multimodal transportation integration technologies and
services that allow the agencies to efficiently collect fares, manage their
operations, reduce shrinkage and make using public transit a more convenient
and attractive option for commuters.  

Consolidated
Overview    

  Sales
for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 increased to $195.0 million from
$190.0 million in the first fiscal quarter last year, an increase of approximately
3%.The increase all came from the defense segment, which increased to $127.5
million from $122.0 million, while transportation sales in the first quarter
this year were nearly the same as last year at $63.7 million, compared to $63.9
million. See the segment discussions following for further analysis of segment
sales.  

Operating income also
increased in the first fiscal quarter from $7.6 million last year to $8.6 million
this year. The increase in operating income was due to improvement in
transportation systems operating income from $1.9 million last year to $3.2
million this year, while defense operating income decreased from $6.6 million
in the first quarter of 2005 to $5.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal
2006.  See the segment
discussions following for further analysis of operating income by segment. 

Net income in the first
quarter increased to $10.5 million this year (39 cents per share) from $5.3
million last year (20 cents per share), due primarily to a gain from the sale
of investment real estate in San Diego County, in addition to the increase in
operating income.  The gain from the sale
of the investment real estate was approximately $4.3 million, after applicable
income taxes, or about 16 cents per share.  

9  

Cost of sales as a
percentage of sales increased from 80.3% in the first quarter last year to
83.2% this year. This reflects lower profit margins from air and ground combat
training systems and  tactical
laser engagement systems in the defense training systems business unit
and low profit margins in the transportation systems segment due to cost growth
in previous periods. 

Selling, general and
administrative (SG A) expenses decreased by $5.8 million from last year s
first quarter and decreased from 14.8% to 11.5% of sales, with the decrease
coming equally from both segments. During the first quarter last year the
defense segment had incurred significantly higher than normal selling expenses
related to contract proposals, while such activities returned to a more normal
level in the first quarter this year. Transportation systems SG A expenses
were lower in the first quarter this year for several reasons. In the first
quarter last year, higher legal expenses were incurred related to a dispute,
that was settled, with a former subcontractor. In addition, staffing reductions
and lower contract proposal costs this year contributed to the decrease in
SG A in transportation systems.  

Our projected effective
tax rate for fiscal 2006 is 34.8% of pretax income, which is reflected in the
provision recorded in the first quarter, compared to a rate of 32.2% used in
last year s first quarter. The projected rate is higher this year because the
U.S. research and development credit expired on December 31, 2005 and has
not yet been extended by Congress. If a similar credit were reinstated
retroactively later this year, our effective tax rate for 2006 could be closer
to 32%. The effective rate for fiscal 2006 could also be affected by, among
other factors, the mix of business between the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions,
our ability to take advantage of available tax credits and audits of our
records by taxing authorities.  

Defense Segment    

Defense
segment sales increased to $127.5 million in the first fiscal quarter this year
from $122.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005, a 5% increase. Increases
of 22% and 19% in training systems and communications sales, respectively, more
than offset a decrease in government services sales. New orders won last year
for tactical laser engagement systems, mobile combat training systems and small
arms training systems added to training sales for the first fiscal quarter
compared to last year. A new contract for the supply of data links for unmanned
aerial vehicles  

10  

(UAV) in the United Kingdom, called Watchkeeper, added to
communications and electronics sales for the quarter. These sales increases more
than offset a decrease of about $11 million in sales from a contract at the
Joint Readiness Training Center (JRTC) in Fort Polk, LA., due to a decrease in
combat training exercises at the facility during the quarter. The primary
reason for the decline in training activity was that National Guard units which
usually would have been training at the facility were diverted to hurricane
relief efforts. This drop in sales resulted in a decrease of $8.3 million in
government services sales for the quarter compared to last year. All other
government services contracts together posted a $3 million increase over the
first quarter last year.  

Operating income
in the defense segment declined in the first quarter this year to $5.9 million
compared to $6.6 million in the first quarter last year. Operating income in
the communications and electronics business improved slightly over last year,
from $100 thousand to $300 thousand. The communication products division had
incurred a loss of $900 thousand in last year s first quarter, but was able to
essentially break even in the first quarter this year, helping to improve
operating income. Cost growth of approximately $500 thousand on a certain
communications contract partially offset this profit improvement. The Watchkeeper
UAV project mentioned above has not yet generated operating income, as it is in
the early stages of completion. Training systems operating income was down in
the first quarter this year compared to last year. Lower margins from air and
ground combat training systems and  tactical laser engagement systems were contributing factors. In
addition, operating income from small
arms training systems was lower, as we are currently developing new weapons simulations
systems for this product line in an effort to become more competitive.
Government services operating income increased in the quarter, despite the
decrease in sales. Improved performance from the operations and
maintenance business and a battlefield simulation contract helped to enhance
government services operating profits. In addition, approximately $200 thousand
of the government services operating income for the quarter came from a contract
modification received, related to a contract completed several years ago, which
had not previously been anticipated in contract value calculations. Included in
the caption  Tactical systems and other  are expenses of more than $500
thousand incurred during the first quarter (compared to zero last year) related
to the 50% owned joint venture with a foreign company. The joint venture has
been awarded one contract, but has not yet generated any sales. 

Transportation
Systems Segment    

  Transportation segment
sales remained essentially unchanged, at $63.7 million for the first quarter
this year compared to $63.9 million in the first quarter last year. Sales from European
service contracts declined by more than $6 million from last year s first
quarter, but this decrease was offset by higher sales from system installation contracts
in Europe, Australia and North America. Lower service sales in Europe were due
primarily to one contract that has been scaled back from its previous
requirements, as the equipment is being replaced by new equipment which does
not require the same support from us. In addition, a contract for the maintenance
of communications equipment in London was completed at the end of fiscal 2005,
and the new contract was awarded to a competitor, further impacting service
sales for the quarter.  

Operating
income in transportation systems increased to $3.2 million in the first quarter
this year from $1.9 million in the first quarter last year. The contracts that
had generated operating losses last year were essentially break-even in the
first quarter this year, improving operating income for the quarter. All of the
operating income for the quarter came from ongoing service contracts in North
America and Europe, although operating income from European service contracts
was  

11  

lower than last year due primarily to the decrease in sales volume
described above. A decrease in legal costs helped improve operating income by
$800 thousand in the first quarter this year, however, the parking business in
Canada incurred a loss of $1.2 million in the first quarter. Of this amount,
approximately $100 thousand represented costs incurred related to workforce
reductions, while the remainder was due primarily to insufficient sales volume
to cover overhead costs. We expect to reduce overhead costs of this business going
forward.  

Backlog    

  As reflected in the table
below, both total and funded backlog decreased about $2 million at December 31,
2005 compared to September 30, 2005. Defense backlog increased about $27
million during the quarter while transportation systems backlog decreased about
$29 million.  

In defense, the
difference between total backlog and funded backlog represents options under
multiyear service contracts. Funding for these contracts comes from annual
operating budgets of the U.S. government and the options are normally exercised
annually. Options for the purchase of additional systems or equipment are not
included in backlog until exercised nor are indefinite delivery, indefinite
quantity (IDIQ) contracts until an order is received.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources    

  Operating
activities used $21 million in cash for the quarter. This was due to a
reduction in accounts payable, customer advances and other current liabilities
during the quarter, partially offset by lower long-term contract receivables.
The negative operating cash flows came nearly  

12  

equally from both segments, in addition to payments of accrued interest
and other corporate obligations.  

Investing
activities for the three month period included $8.0 million in proceeds from
the sale of the building mentioned previously and capital expenditures of $2.4
million.  

During
the first quarter of the fiscal year, we made a scheduled payment on long-term
debt of $5.4 million and repaid $1 million borrowed on a short-term basis.  

Our financial condition
remains strong with working capital of $247 million and a current ratio of 2.7
to 1 at December 31, 2005. We expect that cash on hand and our unused lines
of credit will be adequate to meet our working capital requirements for the
foreseeable future.  

Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments      Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, income taxes, valuation of goodwill and pension costs. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be r
easonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known.         Besides the estimates identified above that are considered critical, we make many other accounting estimates in preparing our financial statements and related disclosures. All estimates, whether or not deemed critical affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and judgments are also based on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known, even for estimates and judgments that are not deemed cr
itical.       

  For further information,
refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in
the Company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30,
2005.  

CAUTIONARY
STATEMENT ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION    

This report, including the documents that we incorporate by reference,
contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are subject to the  safe
harbor  created by those sections. Any statements about our expectations,
beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or our future
financial and/or operating performance are not historical and may be
forward-looking. These statements are often, but not always, made through the use
of words or phrases such as  may,   will,   anticipate,   estimate,   plan,   project, 
 continuing,   ongoing,   expect,   believe,   intend,   predict,   potential, 
 opportunity  and similar words or phrases or the negatives of  

13  

these words or phrases.  These
statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties, including those
discussed in  Risk Factors  in the Company s annual report on Form 10-K
for the year ended September 30, 2005, and throughout this filing that
could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these
statements.  

Because the risk factors referred to above could cause actual results
or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking
statements made by us or on our behalf, you should not place undue reliance on
any forward-looking statements.  In
addition, past financial and/or operating performance is not necessarily a
reliable indicator of future performance and you should not use our historical
performance to anticipate results or future period trends.  Further, any forward-looking statement speaks
only as of the date on which it is made, and we undertake no obligation to
update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after
the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of
unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not
possible for us to predict which factors will arise. In addition, we cannot
assess the impact of each factor on our business or the extent to which any
factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ
materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  

ITEM 4 - STATEMENT ON DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES .   

Within
the 90 days prior to the date of filing this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q,
the Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the
participation of the Company s management, including the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15. Based upon
that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
concluded that, as of the end of the three month period ended  December 31 , 2005, the Company s disclosure controls and
procedures are effective in timely alerting them to material information
relating to the Company (including its consolidated subsidiaries) required to
be included in the Company s periodic SEC filings. 

14  

PART II - OTHER INFORMATION   

ITEM 6 - EXHIBITS  

(a) The following
exhibits are included herein:  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
authorized.  

CUBIC
  CORPORATION  

Date   

February 7, 2006  

/s/ W. W. Boyle  

W. W. Boyle  

Senior
  Vice President and CFO  

Date   

February 7,
  2006  

/s/ Mark A. Harrison  

Mark A. Harrison  

Vice President
  and Controller  

15  

<EX-15>
 2
 a06-4416_1ex15.htm
 LETTER RE UNAUDITED INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION

EXHIBIT 15   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM  

Board
of Directors and Shareholders  

  Cubic
Corporation  

We
have reviewed the condensed consolidated balance sheet of Cubic Corporation as
of  December 31 , 2005,
and the related condensed consolidated statements of income and cash flows for
the three-month periods ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.  These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company s management. 

We
conducted our reviews in accordance with standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
A review of interim financial information consists principally of
applying analytical procedures, and making inquiries of persons responsible for
financial and accounting matters.  It is
substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the objective of which is the
expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a
whole.  Accordingly, we do not express
such an opinion.  

Based
on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be
made to the condensed consolidated financial statements referred to above for
them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  

We
have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of
Cubic Corporation as of September 30, 2005 and the related consolidated
statements of income, changes in shareholders  equity and cash flows for the
year then ended (not presented herein) and in our report dated December 5,
2005, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying
condensed consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2005, is fairly
stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet
from which it has been derived.  

</EX-15>

<EX-31.1>
 3
 a06-4416_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1   

CERTIFICATION of CEO  

I, Walter J. Zable, certify that:  

1)                 I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q
of Cubic Corporation; 

2)                 Based on my knowledge, this report does
not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3)                 Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this  report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this  report; 

4)                 The registrant s other certifying
officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we
have: 

a)                 Designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this  report is being prepared; 

b)                Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented I the report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosures controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
this report based on such evaluation; 

c)                 Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of  December 31,
2005; and 

d)                Disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s quarter ended December 31, 2005 that has materially affected
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5)                 The registrant s other certifying
officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of the
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function): 

a)                 All significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b)                Any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal controls over financial reporting. 

February 7, 2006  

/s/ W. J. Zable  

W. J. Zable  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 4
 a06-4416_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2   

CERTIFICATION of CFO  

I, William W. Boyle, certify that:  

1)                 I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q
of Cubic Corporation; 

2)                 Based on my knowledge, this report does
not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3)                 Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this  report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this  report; 

4)                 The registrant s other certifying
officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we
have: 

a)                 Designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this  report is being prepared; 

b)                Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented I the report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosures controls and procedures,
as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; 

c)                 Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of December 31, 2005; and 

d)                Disclosed in this  report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
quarter ended December 31, 2005 that has materially affected or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and 

5)                 The registrant s other certifying
officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of the
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function): 

a)                 All significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b)                Any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal controls over financial reporting. 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 5
 a06-4416_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.1   

CERTIFICATION  

Each
of the undersigned, in his capacity as an officer of Cubic Corporation hereby
certifies that:  

1.        The 
report of Cubic Corporation (the  Registrant ) on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended December 31,
2005 (the  Report ), which accompanies this certification, fully complies with
the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of  1934. 

2.        The information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition of the
Registrant at the end of such quarter and the results of operations of the
Registrant for such quarter. 

/s/ W. J. Zable  

/s/ W.W. Boyle  

W. J. Zable  

W. W. Boyle  

Chief Executive Officer  

Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 7, 2006  

</EX-32.1>

