<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060202_10-Q_edgar_data_775158_0000897069-06-000275_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>454408</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>96205</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>279479</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>37</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000897069-06-000275.hdr.sgml : 20060202
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060202132021
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000897069-06-000275
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060202
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060202

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			OSHKOSH TRUCK CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000775158
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES [3711]
		IRS NUMBER:				390520270
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WI
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-31371
		FILM NUMBER:		06572652

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2307 OREGON ST
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 2566
		CITY:			OSHKOSH
		STATE:			WI
		ZIP:			54903
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4142359151

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2307 OREGON ST P O BOX 2566
		STREET 2:		2307 OREGON ST P O BOX 2566
		CITY:			OSHKOSH
		STATE:			WI
		ZIP:			54903

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 RaPmAcZfXOvyn+W1fyJtihsNpL/YvU/dimoPZVFDMvaM4sLB/tQjplmIOGiZdaEC
 zF9BPPHuwwzCJ07ZQIw8iA==

 0000897069-06-000275.txt : 20060202

10-Q
 1
 dbk105.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT

UNITED
STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   Washington, D.C. 20549   

Form 10-Q    

For the quarterly
period ended December 31, 2005    

or    

For the transition
period from ______________ to ___________________    

Commission File Number:  1-31371     

Oshkosh Truck Corporation    
 
        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

(Registrant s
telephone number, including area code):  (920) 235-9151    

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes [X]      No [_]   

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer.
See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act. Large accelerated filer  [X]            Accelerated filer  [_]
             Non-accelerated filer  [_]   

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes [_]    No [X]   

As of January 30, 2006, 73,604,552
shares of the Registrant s Common Stock were outstanding.   

1   

OSHKOSH TRUCK
CORPORATION FORM 10-Q INDEX FOR THE QUARTER ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005   

Page     

PART I - FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)  

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the  

Three Months Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004  
       3    
 
                    Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at  

December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005  
       4    
 
                    Condensed Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the  

Three Months Ended December 31, 2005  
       5    
 
                    Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the  

Three Months Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004  
       6    
 
                    Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  
       7    
 
        ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION  

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
       21    
 
        ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  
       30    
 
        ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  
       30    
 
         PART II - OTHER INFORMATION   

ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  
       31    
 
        ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS  
       31    
 
        ITEM 6. EXHIBITS  
       31    
 
        SIGNATURES  
       32    
 
        EXHIBIT INDEX  
       33    

2   

PART I  
FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   

OSHKOSH TRUCK
CORPORATION Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income  (In thousands, except per share
amounts; unaudited)    

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these financial statements.   

3   

OSHKOSH TRUCK
CORPORATION Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets  (In thousands, except share and per
share amounts)    

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these financial statements.   

4   

OSHKOSH TRUCK
CORPORATION   Condensed Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity    (In
thousands, except per share amounts; unaudited)    

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these financial statements.   

5   

OSHKOSH TRUCK
CORPORATION   Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    (In thousands; unaudited)    

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these financial statements.   

6   

OSHKOSH TRUCK CORPORATION 
  Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements   (In thousands, except share
and per share amounts) (Unaudited)    

1. Basis of Presentation   

In
the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial
statements contain all adjustments (which include normal recurring adjustments except as
disclosed herein) necessary to present fairly, the financial position, results of
operations and cash flows for the periods presented. Certain information and footnote
disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the
rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the
audited financial statements and notes thereto included in Oshkosh Truck
Corporation s (the  Company ) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
September 30, 2005. The interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for the
full year.   

In
the three month period ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a cumulative catch-up
adjustment to increase the life-to-date margin recognized on its multi-year Medium
Tactical Vehicle Replacement ( MTVR ) production contract which was accounted
for under the  percentage-of-completion  method. The adjustment resulted from
the final negotiation during the period of disputed pricing on two components of the MTVR
truck, improved overhead absorption under the contract due to increased overall defense
segment production volume and other items. The cumulative life-to-date adjustment
increased the margin percentage recognized on the contract from 7.6% to 8.5%. This change
increased operating income for the three months ended December 31, 2004 by $8,500, net
income by $5,200 and earnings per share by $0.07, including $8,300, $5,100 and $0.07,
respectively, relating to revenues recorded in prior periods. This contract was completed
in the third quarter of fiscal 2005.   

New
Accounting Standards    Effective October 1, 2005, the Company adopted Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123(R),  Share Based
Payment  ( SFAS No. 123(R) ), using the modified prospective method. See
Note 2 for additional information regarding stock-based compensation.   

In
November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No.
151,  Inventory Costs, an Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4  ( SFAS No.
151 ). SFAS No. 151 clarifies that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense,
freight, handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as
current-period charges and requires the allocation of fixed production overhead to
inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 was
effective for inventory costs incurred after October 1, 2005. Adoption of SFAS No. 151 did
not have a material impact on the Company s financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.   

In
March 2005, the FASB issued Financial Interpretation No. ( FIN ) 47,
 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  ( FIN 47 ),
which clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of
a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value can be reasonably estimated
even though uncertainty exists about the timing and/or method of settlement.  The
Company is required to adopt FIN 47 prior to the end of fiscal 2006.  The Company
does not expect the adoption of FIN 47 will have a material impact on the Company s
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

7   

2. Stock-Based
Compensation   

Effective
October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective
method. SFAS No. 123(R) requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock-based
awards at fair value on the grant date and recognition of compensation expense over the
requisite service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of stock option
grants is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which is consistent with
valuation techniques previously utilized by the Company for options in pro forma footnote
disclosures required under SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  as amended by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation   Transition and Disclosure.  The fair value of restricted stock
awards is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of the
Company s Common Stock (the  Common Stock ) at the grant date. Such fair
values are recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service period, net of
estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method of expense recognition under SFAS No.
123(R). Pursuant to SFAS No. 123(R), unearned compensation that was reflected as a
reduction to shareholders  equity as of September 30, 2005 totaling $6,056 was
reclassified and reflected as a reduction to the Company s additional paid-in
capital. The results for prior periods have not been restated. For the three months ended
December 31, 2005, compensation cost charged against income for stock-based compensation
plans and the related income tax benefit recognized was $2,109 and $652, respectively.   

The
fair value method under SFAS No. 123(R) is similar to the fair value method under SFAS No.
123 as amended by SFAS No. 148 with respect to measurement and recognition of stock-based
compensation. However, SFAS No. 123 permitted the Company to recognize forfeitures as they
occurred, while SFAS No. 123(R) requires the Company to estimate future forfeitures and
adjust such estimates on a quarterly basis. Historical forfeitures have been
insignificant. SFAS No. 123(R) also requires a classification change in the statement of
cash flows whereby the income tax benefit from stock option exercises is reported as a
financing cash flow rather than as an operating cash flow as previously reported. The
$2,918 excess tax benefit classified as a financing cash inflow would have been classified
as an operating cash inflow prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).   

As
a result of adopting SFAS 123(R), the Company s income before provision for income
taxes, equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates and minority interest and net
income for the three months ended December 31, 2005, are $1,204 and $722 lower,
respectively, than if it had continued to account for share-based compensation under
Accounting Principles Board Opinion 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees.  Had the Company not adopted the provisions of SFAS 123(R), basic and
diluted earnings per share for the three months ended December 31, 2005 would have been
$0.74 and $0.73, respectively, compared to reported basic and diluted earnings per share
of $0.73 and $0.72, respectively.   

The
Company s 2004 Incentive Stock and Awards Plan (the  2004 Plan ), which
replaced the 1990 Incentive Stock Plan (the  1990 Plan ), as amended, allows for
both stock options and restricted stock awards to be granted to officers, other key
employees and directors of the Company. All stock options granted under the Company s
stock option plans have an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying
Common Stock on the grant date; vest ratably on the first, second and third anniversary of
the date of grant and expire not later than ten years and one month after the grant date.
There are no vesting provisions tied to performance conditions for any outstanding
options. Vesting for all outstanding option grants is based only on continued service as
an employee of the Company. The stock options and restricted stock awards provide for
accelerated vesting if there is a change in control and generally vest upon retirement.
All of the Company s outstanding stock options and restricted stock awards are
classified as equity instruments. The Company generally uses either treasury stock or will
issue new Common Stock to satisfy stock option exercises.   

The
Company historically has applied a nominal vesting approach for employee stock-based
compensation awards with retirement eligible provisions. Under the nominal vesting
approach, the Company recognized compensation cost over the vesting period and, if the
employee retired before the end of the vesting period, the Company then recognized any
remaining unrecognized compensation cost at the date of retirement. Upon adoption of SFAS
No. 123(R), the Company was required to apply a non-substantive vesting period approach
whereby compensation expense is accelerated for those employees receiving awards
subsequent to October 1, 2005 who are eligible to retire prior to normal vesting of the
award. Had the Company applied the non-substantive vesting period approach prior to
October 1, 2005, when the Company was subject to SFAS No. 123, pre-tax compensation cost
for the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 would not have been materially
different.   

8   

Stock
Options   For the three months ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded
$1,204 of stock-based compensation expense in selling, general and administrative expense
in the accompanying consolidated statements of income associated with outstanding unvested
stock options. As of December 31, 2005, there was approximately $5,421 of remaining
unamortized stock-based compensation expense associated with unvested stock options, which
will be expensed over the remaining service period through September 2008. The total
intrinsic value of options exercised during the three months ended December 31, 2005 was
$7,483.   

A
summary of option activity under the 2004 Plan and 1990 Plan as of December 31, 2005, and
changes during the three months then ended is presented below:   

Restricted
Stock Awards    For the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
approximately $905 and $700, respectively, of stock-based compensation associated with
restricted stock awards was recorded in selling, general and administrative expense in the
accompanying consolidated statements of income. As of December 31, 2005, there was
approximately $5,192 of remaining unamortized deferred compensation associated with
restricted stock awards, which will be expensed over the remaining service period through
September 2008.   

A
summary of the status of the Company s restricted shares as of December 31, 2005 and
changes during the three months then ended is presented below:   

9   

Fair
Value Disclosures   Prior to Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)    Prior to October
1, 2005, the Company accounted for its stock options under the recognition and measurement
provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees,  and related interpretations. Thus, no stock-based employee
compensation costs related to stock options were recognized prior to fiscal 2006. Had the
Company applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 to stock-based
employee compensation, the Company s net income and earnings per share for the three
months ended December 31, 2004 would have been reduced to the following pro forma amounts:   

Net income, as reported  

$        40,574  

Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense recorded for             
 
          restricted stock awards, net of related tax effects            
            603  

Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined             
 
          under fair value based method for all awards, net of related tax effects            
            (1,239  
          )   

(636  
          )   

Pro forma net income            
       $        39,938  

Earnings per share:             
 
          Basic - as reported            
       $          0.58  

Basic - pro forma            
            0.56  

Diluted - as reported            
       $          0.56  

Diluted - pro forma            
            0.55  

3. Acquisitions   

On
March 9, 2005, the Company acquired 100% of the stock of London Machinery Inc.
( London ). London is based in Ontario, Canada and is a manufacturer and
marketer of rear-discharge concrete mixers for the concrete placement market with sales
throughout the Americas. The purchase price, including acquisition costs and net of cash
acquired, of $11,169 was allocated based on the estimated fair value of the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition with any excess purchase price
allocated to goodwill.   

On
November 1, 2004, the Company acquired 100% of the stock of Concrete Equipment Company,
Inc. ( CON-E-CO ). CON-E-CO is a leading manufacturer of portable and stationary
concrete batch plants headquartered in Blair, Nebraska. The purchase price, including
acquisition costs and net of cash acquired, of $19,912 was allocated based on the
estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of
acquisition with any excess purchase price allocated to goodwill.   

The
Company has performed, or engaged a third party business valuation appraiser to assist in,
the valuation of the assets of the acquired companies. The following is a summary of the
recorded fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed of CON-E-CO and London
as of the respective dates of acquisition in fiscal 2005:   

10   

The
valuation of intangible assets consists of $1,703 of assets subject to amortization and
$3,898 assigned to trade names not subject to amortization. The intangible assets subject
to amortization consist of $1,096 in customer-related assets with a twenty-year average
life and $607 of non-compete agreements with a five-year life.   

The
CON-E-CO and London acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting and, accordingly, their operating results were included in the Company s
consolidated statements of income from the dates of acquisition. The allocation of the
excess purchase price, including acquisition costs, of the CON-E-CO and London
acquisitions over the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
amounted to $10,696 and has been recorded as goodwill. All the goodwill was assigned to
the Company s commercial segment and is not deductible for income tax purposes.   

Pro
forma condensed consolidated operating results of the Company for the three months ended
December 31, 2004, assuming that the London and CON-E-CO acquisitions had occurred on
October 1, 2004, are as follows (unaudited):   

The
pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what the results of operations
would actually have been had the acquisitions occurred on October 1, 2004.   

4. Inventories   

Inventories
consist of the following:   

Title
to all inventories related to government contracts, which provide for progress or
performance-based payments, vests with the government to the extent of unliquidated
progress or performance-based payments.   

5. Investments in
Unconsolidated Affiliates   

The
Company s investment in unconsolidated affiliates consists primarily of an interest
in Oshkosh/McNelius Financial Services Partnership ( OMFSP ). The Company and an
unaffiliated third party are general partners in OMFSP. OMFSP was formed in 1998 when each
partner contributed existing lease assets (and in the case of the Company, related notes
payable to third party lenders that were secured by such leases) to capitalize the
partnership. OMFSP manages the contributed assets and liabilities and engages in new
vendor lease business providing financing, primarily to customers of the Company. OMFSP
purchases trucks, truck bodies and concrete batch plants from the Company, the
Company s affiliates and, occasionally, unrelated third parties for lease to
user-lessees. Company sales to OMFSP were $9,472 and $10,867 for the three months ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Banks and other third party financial
institutions lend to OMFSP a portion of the purchase price, with recourse solely to OMFSP,
secured by a pledge of lease payments due from the user-lessees. Each partner funds
one-half of the approximate 8.0% equity portion of the cost of new equipment purchases.
Customers typically provide a 2.0% down payment. Each partner is allocated its
proportionate share of OMFSP s cash flow and taxable income in accordance with the
partnership agreement. Indebtedness of OMFSP is secured by the underlying leases and
assets of, and is recourse to, OMFSP. All such OMFSP indebtedness is non-recourse to the
Company and its partner. Each of the two general partners has identical voting,
participating and protective rights and responsibilities, and each general partner
materially participates in the activities of OMFSP. For these and other reasons, the
Company has determined that OMFSP is a voting interest entity for purposes of FIN 46(R),
 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities an interpretation of ARB No.
51.  Accordingly, the Company accounts for its equity interest in OMFSP under the
equity method.   

11   

Included
in investments in unconsolidated affiliates in the Company s Condensed Consolidated
Balance Sheet at December 31, 2005 is the Company s investment in OMFSP of $16,916,
which represents the Company s maximum exposure to loss as a result of the
Company s ownership interest in OMFSP. This exposure is a non-cash exposure. Further,
the Company had recorded deferred income tax liabilities related to its investment in
OMFSP at December 31, 2005 that were included in long-term deferred income tax liabilities
in the Company s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Should the Company s
investment in OMFSP be liquidated for any reason, deferred income tax liabilities of
$19,893 would reverse and result in an increase in the Company s current income taxes
payable.   

Summarized
financial information of OMFSP is as follows:   

6. Property, Plant and
Equipment   

The following table presents details
of the Company s property, plant and equipment:   

12   

7. Goodwill and
Purchased Intangible Assets   

The
following table presents the changes in goodwill during the three months ended December
31, 2005:   

The
adjustments include a decrease of $2,320 resulting from currency translation adjustments
and $187 related to adjustments of tax assets related to the acquisition of London.    

The
following tables present details of the Company s purchased intangible assets:   

13   

Excluding
the impact of any future acquisitions, the Company anticipates amortization of purchased
intangible assets for the next five year as follows:    

8. Warranty and
Guarantee Arrangements   

The
Company s products generally carry explicit warranties that extend from six months to
five years, based on terms that are generally accepted in the marketplace. Selected
components (such as engines, transmissions, tires, etc.) included in the Company s
end products may include manufacturers  warranties. These manufacturers 
warranties are generally passed on to the end customer of the Company s products, and
the customer would generally deal directly with the component manufacturer.   

Changes
in the Company s warranty liability were as follows:   

In
the fire and emergency segment, the Company provides guarantees of lease payments by
customer-lessees to a third-party lessor of equipment purchased from the Company. The
guarantee is limited to $1,000 per year in total and is supported by the residual value of
the related equipment. The Company s actual losses under these guarantees over the
last ten years have been negligible. In accordance with FIN 45,  Guarantor s
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others,  no liabilities for pre-January 1, 2003 guarantees have been
recorded. For all such guarantees issued after January 1, 2003, the Company has recorded
the fair value of the guarantee as a liability and a reduction of the initial revenue
recognized on the sale of equipment. Liabilities accrued since January 1, 2003 for such
guarantees were not significant.   

9. Credit Agreements   

The
following table presents details of the Company s short-term borrowings:   

14   

The Company
has an unsecured revolving credit facility of $500,000, which expires in September 2009.
The Company may seek to increase the revolving credit facility up to an aggregate maximum
outstanding amount of $750,000, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions,
including the Company not being in default under the revolving credit facility and the
identification of lenders willing to provide the additional commitments. At December 31,
2005, bank borrowings of $17,766, related to  15,000 incurred to finance the BAI
acquisition, and outstanding letters of credit of $20,062 reduced available capacity under
the Company s revolving credit facility to $462,172.   

Interest
rates on borrowings under the Company s revolving credit facility are variable and
are equal to the  Base Rate  (which is equal to the higher of a bank s
reference rate and the federal funds rate plus 0.50%) or the  Offshore Rate 
(which is a bank s inter-bank offered rate for U.S. dollars in off-shore markets)
plus a margin of 0.70% for Offshore Rate loans under the Company s revolving credit
facility as of December 31, 2005. The margins are subject to adjustment, up or down, based
on whether certain financial criteria are met. The average interest rate on bank
borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005 was 3.13% and 2.82%,
respectively.   

The
Company is charged a 0.125% to 0.300% annual commitment fee with respect to any unused
balance under its revolving credit facility, and a 0.525% to 1.500% annual fee with
respect to commercial letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility, based
on the Company s leverage ratio as defined under the terms of the Company s
revolving credit facility.   

Restrictions
and covenants under the revolving credit facility include: (1) requirements that the
Company maintain certain financial ratios at prescribed levels; and (2) restrictions on
the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries to consolidate or merge, or
create liens, incur additional indebtedness and dispose of assets. The Company believes
that such limitations should not impair its future operating activities.   

The
Company s wholly-owned subsidiary in The Netherlands, Geesink Group B.V., and certain
of its affiliates are party to a  2,500 bank credit facility (the  Euro
facility ), which supports a cross-border cash pooling arrangement. There were no
borrowings outstanding under the Euro facility at December 31, 2005.   

London
has a $6,435 (CAD 7,500) credit facility with $1,542 (CAD 1,798) in borrowings outstanding
at December 31, 2005, which bears interest at a variable rate based on a bank s prime
rate plus 0.50% (5.50% at December 31, 2005).   

Other
subsidiaries of the Company had other unsecured short-term debt outstanding of $1,010 with
varying interest rates at December 31, 2005.   

The
following table presents details of the Company s long-term borrowings:   

At
December 31, 2005, the Company s 75 percent owned subsidiary in Italy, BAI Brescia
Antincendi International S.r.l. and BAI Tecnica S.r.l. (together  BAI ), had
outstanding mortgage loans of $2,344 ( 1,979), which bear interest at a variable rate
based on the three-month Euribor rate plus a margin of between 0.75% and 1.50%. The
average interest rate on outstanding mortgage loans at December 31, 2005 and September 30,
2005 was 3.44% and 3.08%, respectively.   

15   

10. Derivative Financial
Instruments   

Historically,
the Company has used forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce the exchange rate risk
of specific foreign currency transactions. These contracts require the exchange of a
foreign currency for U.S. dollars at a fixed rate at a future date.   

To
protect against a reduction in value of certain forecasted foreign currency cash receipts
from export sales from April 2004 through November 2006 that will be denominated in
British Sterling, and to protect against increases in costs of purchases of certain
components from January 2005 through December 2006 that are payable in Euro, all in
connection with the Company s contract to provide certain tactical military truck
systems to the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence, the Company has instituted a foreign
currency cash flow hedging program. The Company has hedged a significant portion of its
estimated foreign currency cash flows in connection with this contract.   

At
December 31, 2005, the U.S. dollar equivalent of outstanding foreign exchange forward
contracts totaled $176,392 in notional amounts, including $130,819 in contracts to sell
British Sterling, $43,771 in contracts to purchase Euro and $1,802 in contracts to sell
Euro. Net unrealized losses (net of related tax effect of $4,969) on outstanding foreign
exchange forward contracts at December 31, 2005 totaled $8,462 and have been included in
accumulated other comprehensive income. All balances are expected to be reclassified from
accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings during the next twelve months due to
actual export sales and sales of products whose underlying costs contain purchases
denominated in foreign currencies.   

11. Comprehensive Income   

Total
comprehensive income is as follows:   

The
Company funded a portion of the BAI purchase price utilizing proceeds of a
Euro-denominated debt obligation. This debt obligation has been designated as a hedge of
the Company s net investment in BAI. To the extent that this debt obligation remains
as an effective hedge, changes in value of the debt obligation due to changes in foreign
currency are recorded within currency translation adjustments in other comprehensive
income. Net gains (losses) of $306 and $(1,970) have been recorded as part of the
cumulative translation adjustment for the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.   

16   

12. Earnings Per Share   

On
May 3, 2005, a sufficient number of shareholders of the Company s unlisted Class A
Common Stock converted their shares to New York Stock Exchange   listed Common Stock,
on a share-for-share basis, which resulted in the remaining Class A shares being
automatically converted into Common Stock on the same basis pursuant to the Company s
Articles of Incorporation. As a result of the conversion, the Company now has a single
class of stock and income is no longer ascribed to Class A Common Stock. The following
table reconciles net income to net income available to Common Stock holders for purposes
of the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share:   

The
following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted weighted average shares
used in the denominator of the per share calculations:   

13. Employee Benefit
Plans   

Components
of net periodic pension benefit cost were as follows:    

The
Company made a $12,000 contribution to its pension plans in the second quarter of fiscal
2005 and another $12,500 contribution in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. The Company
estimates that it will make a $15,000 contribution to its pension plans in the second
quarter of fiscal 2006 and may make an additional contribution ranging between $5,000 and
$15,000 later in fiscal 2006.   

17   

Components
of net periodic other post-employment benefit costs were as follows:    

The
Company made contributions to fund benefit payments of $122 and $145 for the three month
periods ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, under its other post-employment
benefit plans. The Company estimates additional contributions of approximately $950 will
be made under these other post-employment plans prior to the end of fiscal 2006.   

14. Contingencies,
Significant Estimates and Concentrations   

As
part of its routine business operations, the Company disposes of and recycles or reclaims
certain industrial waste materials, chemicals and solvents at third party disposal and
recycling facilities, which are licensed by appropriate governmental agencies. In some
instances, these facilities have been and may be designated by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) or a state environmental agency for
remediation. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability
Act and similar state laws, each potentially responsible party ( PRP ) that
contributed hazardous substances may be jointly and severally liable for the costs
associated with cleaning up these sites. Typically, PRPs negotiate a resolution with the
EPA and/or the state environmental agencies. PRPs also negotiate with each other regarding
allocation of the cleanup cost. The Company has been named a PRP with regard to three
multiple-party sites. Based on current estimates, the Company believes its liability at
these sites will not be material and any responsibility of the Company is adequately
covered through established reserves.   

The
Company is addressing a regional trichloroethylene ( TCE ) groundwater plume on
the south side of Oshkosh, Wisconsin. The Company believes there may be multiple sources
of TCE in the area. TCE was detected at the Company s North Plant facility with
testing showing the highest concentrations in a monitoring well located on the upgradient
property line. Because the investigation process is still ongoing, it is not possible for
the Company to estimate its long-term total liability associated with this issue at this
time. Also, as part of the regional TCE groundwater investigation, the Company conducted a
groundwater investigation of a former landfill located on Company property. The landfill,
acquired by the Company in 1972, is approximately 2.0 acres in size and is believed to
have been used for the disposal of household waste. Based on the investigation, the
Company does not believe the landfill is one of the sources of the TCE contamination.
Based upon current knowledge, the Company believes its liability associated with the TCE
issue will not be material and is adequately covered through reserves established by the
Company. However, this may change as investigations proceed by the Company, other
unrelated property owners, and the government.   

In
connection with the acquisition of the Geesink Norba Group, the Company identified
potential soil and groundwater contamination impacts from solvents and metals at one of
its manufacturing sites. The Company is conducting a study to identify the remediation
options available. Based on current estimates, the Company believes its liability at this
site will not be material and any responsibility of the Company is adequately covered
through reserves established by the Company.   

At
December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, the Company had reserves of $6,002 and $6,030,
respectively, for losses related to environmental matters that are probable and estimable.
The amount recorded for identified contingent liabilities is based on estimates. Amounts
recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal
information that becomes available. Actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary
from the estimates, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures.
Subject to the imprecision in estimating future contingent liability costs, the Company
does not expect that any sum it may have to pay in connection with these matters in excess
of the amounts recorded will have a materially adverse effect on its financial position,
results of operations or liquidity.   

The
Company is contingently liable under bid, performance and specialty bonds totaling
approximately $224,378 and open standby letters of credit issued by the Company s
banks in favor of third parties totaling $20,062 at December 31, 2005.   

18   

Product
and general liability claims arise against the Company from time to time in the ordinary
course of business. The Company is generally self-insured for future claims up to $1,000
per claim. Accordingly, a reserve is maintained for the estimated costs of such claims. At
December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, the reserve for product and general liability
claims was $11,766 and $11,401, respectively, based on available information. There is
inherent uncertainty as to the eventual resolution of unsettled claims. Management,
however, believes that any losses in excess of established reserves will not have a
material effect on the Company s financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.   

The
Company is subject to other environmental matters and legal proceedings and claims,
including patent, antitrust, product liability, warranty and state dealership regulation
compliance proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Although the final
results of all such matters and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, management
believes that the ultimate resolution of all such matters and claims will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows. Actual results could vary, among other things, due to the uncertainties
involved in litigation.   

15. Business Segment
Information   

19   

(a)  Includes investment in
unconsolidated partnership.   

Net
sales by geographic region based on product shipment destination were as follows:    

20   

ITEM 2.     
   MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Cautionary Statement
About Forward-Looking Statements     

This
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results
of Operations and other sections of this Form 10-Q contain statements that Oshkosh Truck
Corporation (the  Company ) believes to be  forward-looking
statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this report,
including, without limitation, statements regarding the Company s future financial
position, business strategy, targets, projected sales, costs, earnings, capital
expenditures, debt levels and cash flows, and plans and objectives of management for
future operations, including those under the captions,  Executive Overview  and
 Fiscal 2006 and Beyond Outlook  are forward-looking statements. When used in
this Form 10-Q, words such as  may,   will,   expect, 
 intend,   estimate,   anticipate,   believe, 
 should,   project  or  plan  or the negative thereof or
variations thereon or similar terminology are generally intended to identify
forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future
performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors, some
of which are beyond the Company s control, that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These
factors include the Company s ability to continue the turnaround of its Geesink Norba
Group and McNeilus businesses, the cyclical nature of the Company s commercial and
fire and emergency markets, risks related to reductions in government expenditures, the
uncertainty of government contracts, the challenges of identifying acquisition candidates
and integrating acquired businesses, higher steel and component costs and the
Company s ability to avoid such cost increases based on its supply contracts or to
recover such cost increases with increases in selling prices of its products, risks associated with the implementation
of an enterprise resource planning system at McNeilus, the success
of the launch of the Revolution    composite concrete mixer drum, the
availability of commercial chassis and certain chassis components including engines, and
risks associated with international operations and sales, including foreign currency
fluctuations. In addition, the Company s expectations for fiscal 2006 and beyond are
based in part on certain assumptions made by the Company, which are set forth under the
caption  Certain Assumptions.  Additional information concerning factors that
could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking
statements is contained from time to time in the Company s U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) filings, including, but not limited to, the
Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 2, 2006.   

All
forward-looking statements, including those under the captions  Executive
Overview  and  Fiscal 2006 and Beyond Outlook  speak only as of the date
the Company files this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the SEC. The Company has adopted
a policy that if the Company makes a determination that it expects the Company s
earnings per share for future periods for which projections are contained in this
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to be lower than those projections, then the Company will
publicly disseminate that fact. The Company s policy also provides that if the
Company makes a determination that it expects the Company s earnings per share for
future periods to be at or above the projections contained in this Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q, then the Company does not intend to publicly disseminate that fact. Except as
set forth above, the Company assumes no obligation, and disclaims any obligation, to
update information contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Investors should be
aware that the Company may not update such information until the Company s next
quarterly earnings conference call, if at all.   

All
references herein to earnings per share refer to earnings per share assuming dilution.   

General    

Major
products manufactured and marketed by each of the Company s business segments are as
follows:   

Fire
and emergency   commercial and custom fire trucks and equipment, homeland security
vehicles, aircraft rescue and firefighting trucks, snow removal trucks, ambulances,
wreckers, carriers and other emergency vehicles primarily sold to fire departments,
airports, other governmental units and towing companies in the U.S. and abroad.   

Defense
  heavy- and medium-payload tactical trucks and supply parts and services sold to the
U.S. military and to other militaries around the world.   

Commercial
  concrete mixer systems, refuse truck bodies, mobile and stationary compactors and
waste transfer units, portable and stationary concrete batch plants and truck components
sold to ready-mix companies and commercial and municipal waste haulers in North America,
Europe and other international markets.   

21   

Executive Overview   

The
Company reported substantially higher operating results in the three months ended December
31, 2005 compared to the same period last year and expects higher operating results for
its full fiscal year 2006, as follows:   

While
the improved results in the first three months of fiscal 2006 were largely driven by the
Company s defense segment, the Company experienced double digit percentage increases
in operating income at all of its segments for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 as
compared to the same period in the prior year. The Company believes that its financial
performance will continue to improve in fiscal 2006 as it expects that U.S. Department of
Defense (the  DoD ) requirements for its products and services resulting largely
from Operation Iraqi Freedom will increase and that municipal and federal funding for its
fire and emergency segment products will improve. The Company also expects that its
actions to raise selling prices domestically and reduce costs across all businesses in its
commercial segment will substantially improve the profitability of its commercial segment
in fiscal 2006. The Company also anticipates that its commercial segment will benefit from
strong demand for its products in fiscal 2006 due to changes in diesel engine emissions
standards scheduled to be effective in January 2007 for diesel engines in the classes of
chassis the Company sells and/or utilizes for mounting of the Company s truck bodies.
When new standards became effective in 2003, the Company experienced an acceleration of
purchases of trucks and truck bodies in its commercial segment immediately prior to the
effective date of the new standards and lower purchases immediately following such date.
The Company believes that a similar acceleration of purchases could occur in fiscal 2006
and early fiscal 2007, with lower purchases likely beginning in the second quarter of
fiscal 2007. However, a number of factors, including those discussed elsewhere in this document,
could impact the Company s ability to achieve the Company s estimates for fiscal 2006.  

Since
the onset of Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2003, including the first quarter of fiscal 2006,
the Company s defense segment has benefited substantially from increasing DoD
requirements for new trucks, parts, service, armoring and remanufacturing of the
Company s defense vehicles operated in Iraq. During the first quarter of fiscal 2006,
the Company s defense segment continued to outperform the prior year comparable
period as a result of increasing requirements for heavy-payload and remanufactured trucks
and a continuing increase in parts and service sales due to requirements largely arising
from conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. These factors caused the Company s defense
sales and operating income to increase 68.5% and 40.5%, respectively, during the first
three months of fiscal 2006 compared to the prior year first quarter. The increase in
operating income occurred despite strong operating income in the first quarter of fiscal
2005 arising from two large adjustments to increase operating income totaling $12.2
million related to the recovery of pre-contract costs previously expensed on an armoring
contract and an increase in the margin on the Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement
( MTVR ) base contract. For fiscal 2006, the Company expects its defense sales
to grow approximately 22.5% to 27.0% due to higher new truck and remanufacturing business.
The Company expects its defense parts and service business to maintain its sales levels
experienced in fiscal 2005. The Company is projecting defense segment operating income
margins to decrease approximately 200 basis points in fiscal 2006 as fiscal 2005 results
benefited from $24.7 million of MTVR base contract margin adjustments.   

In
the Company s fire and emergency segment, sales were up 11.5% in the first three
months of fiscal 2006 and operating income increased 13.4%. The Company expects the fire
and emergency segment sales growth percentage to continue to be in the low teens in fiscal
2006, reflecting improving markets and higher pricing across the segment. The Company is
projecting fire and emergency segment margins will be relatively flat in fiscal 2006 as
compared to fiscal 2005 as the Company expects start-up costs related to a facility
expansion at Pierce to offset other margin improvement initiatives.   

22   

In
the Company s commercial segment, sales decreased 8.4% in the first three months of
fiscal 2006, while operating income increased 47.6% compared to the prior year first
quarter. The increase in operating income was primarily driven by the return to
profitability of the Company s European refuse business in the first quarter of
fiscal 2006 as compared to an operating loss of $2.6 million in the same quarter in the
prior year. The improvement in the European refuse business operating income was
attributable to an increase in sales as well as the realization of cost reductions
undertaken during the past two years to return this business to profitability. The
financial performance in the Company s domestic operations within this segment
slightly underperformed fiscal 2005 comparable quarter results. The underperformance
largely related to production disruptions caused by the first phase of a project to convert to a
 new enterprise resource planning system ( ERP system ) at McNeilus
Companies, Inc. ( McNeilus ). The conversion, which is being performed in three major
phases over fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007, caused a
significant disruption to production early in the quarter at McNeilus, leading to lower
shipments in the quarter. By quarter-end, production was much improved at McNeilus. The
realization of recent price increases nearly permitted McNeilus to offset the negative
impacts of lower sales and production volumes on earnings for the quarter. Orders within
the segment were strong in the first quarter, and at December 31, 2005, the Company s
backlog in its commercial segment was up 29.1%. With the return to profitability at its
European refuse business, a strong unit backlog across the segment and U.S. price
increases implemented in June 2005 beginning to take effect, the Company believes that its
overall commercial segment performance will improve in the next three quarters of fiscal
2006. The Company estimates its commercial segment sales growth percentage to be in the
low single digits range in fiscal 2006 as higher pricing and flat volume is expected to be
partially offset by a lower mix of package sales involving a truck chassis and a truck
body. The Company projects operating income margins to double in fiscal 2006 as a result
of a pricing strategy implemented to recover steel and component costs increases, improved
performance in Europe, and cost reduction activities underway.   

The
Company s cash flow has been strong due to earnings growth. Assuming no further
acquisitions, the Company estimates that cash will increase to approximately $200 million
to $225 million at September 30, 2006. The Company believes the cash will allow the
Company to continue to further its acquisition strategy, repurchase stock and/or increase
dividend payments to contribute to shareholder returns.   

Based
on the Company s strong financial performance in its first quarter and new business
originated during the quarter but also recognizing the challenges the Company will face
throughout the year, the Company announced on February 2, 2006 that it had
increased its estimate range of fiscal 2006 earnings per share assuming dilution by $0.15
per share, from $2.40   $2.50 per share as previously estimated on November 1, 2005
to $2.55   $2.65 per share. On that date, the Company also announced that it had
increased its quarterly dividend rate by 48% to $0.10 per share.   

Please
refer to  Fiscal 2006 Outlook and Beyond  and  Certain Assumptions 
for a discussion of the Company s sales, operating income, net income, earnings per
share and cash estimates for fiscal 2006 and beyond.   

A
surge in over-the-road truck sales has created shortages of certain components utilized by
the Company, especially certain engines utilized in the Company s defense business.
The shortages have also caused periodic delays or limitations on the receipt of chassis
scheduled for mounting of the Company s truck bodies across both its fire and
emergency and commercial segments. It is possible that some or all of such shortages could
intensify during calendar 2006, which may cause the Company to miss forecasted sales and
earnings estimates or incur additional costs to manage production when key components are
delivered late. The Company has devoted significant resources to manage the timely
delivery of key components and currently expects no material impact to its annual sales
and earnings estimates for fiscal 2006, but the Company cannot provide any assurance that
such shortage conditions do not intensify in 2006.   

During
fiscal 2004 and the first six months of fiscal 2005, costs rose sharply for steel and
component parts containing steel, and the availability of steel has at times been limited,
especially for small consumers of steel, including certain of the Company s
suppliers. The Company uses thousands of tons of steel annually and some industry experts
have estimated the increase in steel costs over this period at more than 120%. Although
the Company believes steel costs have stabilized, the Company could face further steel
cost increases in fiscal 2006. Based on long-term agreements with suppliers, the Company
has been able to avoid some of the impact of these cost increases, but not all the
Company s suppliers have been able to honor their contracts with the Company. To
mitigate these increases, the Company announced multiple price increases in all of its
commercial and fire and emergency business units, some of which take effect in fiscal
2006. Some customers have reacted adversely to these price increases and competitive
conditions have limited, and may limit in the future, price increases and/or sales volumes
in some market sectors. If steel and component cost increases resume, then the Company
would expect to announce further price increases as necessary. Due to the nature of its
defense business, which is generally based on firm, fixed-price contracts, the Company is
generally limited in its ability to raise prices in response to rising steel and component
costs. The Company generally has firm pricing from a substantial majority of its suppliers
to its defense business at the time of a contract award, but it does not expect these
supply contracts to fully protect the Company from steel and component cost increases in
its defense segment. The Company has sought substantially higher pricing for all new
defense contracts executed since the second half of fiscal 2004 to recover the higher
steel and component costs experienced to date.   

23   

Results of Operations    

Analysis of Consolidated
Net Sales   

The
following table presents net sales by business segment (in thousands):    

First Quarter Fiscal
2006 Compared to 2005     

Consolidated
net sales increased 22.5% to $790.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared
to the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The increase in sales was driven by an increase in
sales in the fire and emergency and defense segments.   

Fire
and emergency segment net sales increased 11.5% to $216.4 million for the first quarter of
fiscal 2006 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005 reflecting strong fire apparatus
and homeland security sales and higher pricing across the segment offset in part by lower
airport product sales. Sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 included a large
international sale of airport products that did not reoccur in fiscal 2006.   

Defense
segment net sales increased 68.5% to $363.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2006
compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005 as sales of new and remanufactured trucks and
parts and service each increased over 60% during the quarter. An increase in sales of
heavy-payload and remanufactured trucks for the DoD and of wheeled tankers to the United
Kingdom Ministry of Defence ( U.K. MoD ) more than offset lower MTVR sales due
to the completion of the MTVR base contract in the third quarter of fiscal 2005. The sales
growth, other than the increase attributable to the U.K. MoD, largely arose due to
requirements from the conflict in Iraq.   

Commercial
segment net sales decreased 8.4% to $221.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2006
compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The sales decline was largely attributable
to lower McNeilus sales, offset in part by European refuse sales that were up 16.2% in the
first quarter principally due to higher unit sales. On October 3, 2005, McNeilus
implemented the first phase of a three-part project to convert to a new enterprise resource planning system. Following the implementation,
McNeilus experienced a significant disruption to production early in the quarter, which
led to lower shipments in the first quarter. McNeilus had sufficient backlog during the
quarter to achieve higher sales than in the prior year if production had been adequate. By
quarter end, production was much improved at McNeilus. The Company believes that it is
beginning to realize the benefits of its price increases implemented in fiscal 2005 as the
average prices per unit sold increased in the first quarter compared to the prior year
quarter for all McNeilus product lines.   

24   

Analysis of Consolidated
Operating Income   

The
following table presents operating income by business segment (in thousands):    

First Quarter Fiscal
2006 Compared to 2005     

Consolidated
operating income increased 28.6% to $87.0 million, or 11.0% of sales, in the first quarter
of fiscal 2006 compared to $67.6 million, or 10.5% of sales, in the first quarter of
fiscal 2005.   

Fire
and emergency segment operating income increased 13.4% to $20.9 million, or 9.7% of sales,
in the quarter compared to $18.4 million, or 9.5% of sales, in the prior year quarter.
Operating income margins improved slightly during the quarter due to improved pricing
across the segment offset in part by expenses related to a facility expansion at the
Company s domestic fire apparatus business.   

Defense
segment operating income increased 40.5% to $72.6 million, or 20.0% of sales, in the
quarter compared to $51.7 million, or 24.0% of sales, in the prior year quarter. Earnings
during the first quarter reflected a strong mix of new and remanufactured heavy-payload
trucks and parts and service sales offset in part by higher new product development
spending. Operating income margins during the first quarter of fiscal 2005 were higher due
to an $8.5 million increase in MTVR base contract margins and a $3.7 million recovery of
pre-contract costs expensed in fiscal 2004 related to an armoring contract.   

Commercial
segment operating income increased 47.6% to $8.3 million, or 3.8% of sales, in the quarter
compared to $5.6 million, or 2.3% of sales, in the prior year quarter. The growth in
operating income and margins in the quarter is largely due to operating income at the
Company s European refuse operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to
an operating loss of $2.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The improvement in
operating income for the European refuse operation was primarily the result of improved
market conditions and the restructuring of that business in fiscal 2004 and 2005 to reduce
costs. Operating income of other operations in the segment declined slightly as improved
pricing was insufficient to offset the impact on earnings of lower sales and production
volumes.   

Corporate
operating expenses and inter-segment profit elimination increased $6.7 million to $14.8
million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005.
The increase in the first quarter was largely due to favorable settlements of product
liability matters aggregating $4.2 million that benefited the prior year quarter results.
Also contributing to the increase were higher personnel costs, including an additional
$1.2 million related to the expensing of stock options due to the adoption of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123(R),  Share Based
Payment.    

Consolidated
operating expenses increased 29.1% to $61.9 million, or 7.8% of sales, in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to $48.0 million, or 7.4% of sales in the first quarter of
fiscal 2005. The favorable settlements of product liability matters favorably impacted
operating expenses as a percentage of sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2005.   

25   

Analysis of
Non-Operating Income Statement Items   

First Quarter Fiscal
2006 Compared to 2005     

Interest
expense net of interest income decreased $1.5 million to $0.3 million in the first quarter
of fiscal 2006 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005, largely as a result of lower
borrowings due to the repayment of debt related to acquisitions.   

The
effective income tax rate increased to 39.0% for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared
to 38.6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 due to higher state income taxes associated
with higher earnings in relatively higher-tax rate states..   

Equity
in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $0.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal
2006 and $0.5 million in fiscal 2005 primarily represents the Company s equity
interest in a lease financing partnership.   

Financial Condition    

The
utilization of cash and cash equivalents of $46.5 million funded cash used in operating
activities of $32.7 million, capital expenditures of $12.9 million, and dividends of $5.0
million. Cash used in operations during the first three months of fiscal 2006 increased
compared to cash used in operations in the first three months of fiscal 2005 primarily due
to the acceleration of $35.0 million of performance-based payments on certain defense
contracts into the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 from the first quarter of fiscal 2006. In
addition, due to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), cash flows related to the excess tax
benefits on stock-based compensation is classified as a financing cash inflow whereas
previously it had been classified as an operating cash inflow. Accordingly, for the three
months ended December 31, 2005, excess tax benefits of $2.9 million were reflected within
financing cash inflows whereas for the three months ended December 31, 2004, $15.4 million
was reflected within operating cash inflows.   

The
Company s debt-to-total capital ratio at December 31, 2005 was 2.6% compared to 2.9%
at September 30, 2005.   

Liquidity and Capital
Resources     

The
Company had cash and cash equivalents of $81.0 million and $462.2 million of unused
availability under the terms of its revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2005. The
Company s primary cash requirements include working capital, capital expenditures,
dividends, interest and principal payments on indebtedness and, potentially, future
acquisitions.   

The
Company s cash flow from operations has fluctuated, and will likely continue to
fluctuate significantly, from quarter to quarter, due to changes in working capital
requirements arising principally from seasonal fluctuations in sales, the start-up or
conclusion of large defense contracts and the timing of receipt of individually large
performance-based payments from the DoD.   

The
Company s revolving credit facility contains various restrictions and covenants,
including (1) requirements that the Company maintain certain financial ratios at
prescribed levels; and (2) restrictions on the ability of the Company and certain of its
subsidiaries to consolidate or merge, create liens, incur additional indebtedness and
dispose of assets. Given the Company s limited borrowings and its estimated cash
flow, the Company believes that it is unlikely that these restrictions and covenants would
limit the Company s ability to respond to market conditions, to provide for
unanticipated capital investments, to raise additional debt or equity capital, or to take
advantage of business opportunities, including future acquisitions.   

Interest
rates on borrowings under the Company s revolving credit facility are variable and
are equal to the  Base Rate  (which is equal to the higher of a bank s
reference rate and the federal funds rate plus 0.50%) or the  Offshore Rate 
(which is a bank s inter-bank offered rate for U.S. dollars in off-shore markets)
plus a margin of 0.70% for Offshore Rate loans under the Company s revolving credit
facility as of December 31, 2005. The margins are subject to adjustment, up or down, based
on whether certain financial criteria are met. The weighted average interest rate on the
revolving credit facility borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2005 was 3.13%. The
Company presently has no plans to enter into interest rate swap arrangements to limit
exposure to future increases in interest rates.   

Based
upon current and anticipated future operations, the Company believes that capital
resources will be adequate to meet future working capital, debt service and other capital
requirements for fiscal 2006. See  Fiscal 2006 and Beyond Outlook.  Debt levels
and capital resource requirements may change, however, because the Company maintains an
active acquisitions strategy and the Company cannot reasonably estimate the capital
requirements of this strategy.   

26   

Contractual Obligations,
Commercial Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    

The
Company s contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off-balance sheet
arrangements disclosures in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September
30, 2005 have not materially changed since that report was filed.   

Application of Critical
Accounting Policies     

The
preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments,
assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005
describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the
consolidated financial statements. The Company s application of critical accounting
policies has not materially changed since that report was filed except as noted below.   

On
October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), applying the modified prospective
method. SFAS 123(R) requires all equity-based payments to employees, including grants of
employee stock options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of income based on
the fair value of the award. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company accounted
for equity-based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition
and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations, and
equity-based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the
consolidated financial statements.   

Operating
income for the three months ended December 31, 2005 was adversely affected by the impact
of equity-based compensation due to the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R). The Company
recorded $2.1 million for equity-based compensation during the three months ended December
31, 2005, of which $1.2 million is attributable to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R),
compared to $0.7 million in the comparable period in the prior year. The Company expects
that equity-based compensation expense for fiscal 2006 will be approximately $10 million
to $13 million based on current outstanding awards and assumptions applied. However, any
significant awards granted during the remainder of fiscal 2006, required changes in the
estimated forfeiture rates or significant changes in the market price of the
Company s Common Stock may impact this estimate.   

Critical Accounting
Estimates    

The
Company s disclosures of critical accounting estimates in its Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005 have not materially changed since that report
was filed.    

New Accounting Standards    

Refer
to  Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  for a discussion
of the impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements of new accounting
standards.   

Customers and Backlog     

Sales
to the U.S. government comprised approximately 39% of the Company s net sales in the
first three months of fiscal 2006. No other single customer accounted for more than 10.0%
of the Company s net sales for this period. A substantial majority of the
Company s net sales are derived from customer orders prior to commencing production.   

The
Company s backlog at December 31, 2005 increased 3.9% to $1,937.1 million compared to
$1,865.0 million at December 31, 2004. Fire and emergency segment backlog increased 4.1%
to $554.2 million at December 31, 2005 compared to $532.4 million at December 31, 2004 due
to homeland security market development and improving domestic municipal markets. The
defense segment backlog decreased 3.0% to $1,021.9 million at December 31, 2005 compared
to $1,052.9 million at December 31, 2004, due to the fulfillment of parts and services
contracts for the U.S. DoD associated with Operation Iraqi Freedom. Commercial segment
backlog increased 29.1% to $361.0 million at December 31, 2005 compared to $279.7 million
at December 31, 2004 due to strong market demand and lower first quarter production. Unit
backlog for refuse packers was up 59.6% domestically and up 9.6% in Europe compared to
backlog at December 31, 2004. Unit backlog for front-discharge concrete mixers was up
23.0%, while unit backlog for domestic rear-discharge concrete mixers increased 34.8%
compared to backlog at December 31, 2004. The Company may sell lower volumes of front- and
rear-discharge mixers in fiscal 2006 as a result of its aggressive pricing strategy to
offset higher steel and component costs. Approximately 15.0% of the Company s
December 31, 2005 backlog is not expected to be filled in fiscal 2006.   

27   

Reported
backlog excludes purchase options and announced orders for which definitive contracts have
not been executed. Additionally, backlog excludes unfunded portions of the Family of Heavy
Tactical Vehicles and Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity contracts. Backlog
information and comparisons thereof as of different dates may not be accurate indicators
of future sales or the ratio of the Company s future sales to the DoD versus its
sales to other customers.   

Fiscal 2006 and Beyond
Outlook    

The
Company estimates that fiscal 2006 consolidated net sales will range between $3.3 billion
and $3.4 billion, an increase from fiscal 2005 net sales of 11.5% to 14.9%, respectively.
All comparisons are to fiscal 2005 and assume no new acquisitions.   

The
Company expects the fire and emergency segment sales growth percentage to be in the low
teens in fiscal 2006, reflecting improving markets and higher pricing across the segment.   

The
Company projects defense segment sales to increase 22.5% to 27.0% in fiscal 2006 due to
additional federal funding which includes requirements for new and remanufactured trucks
to meet the DoD s requirements for Operation Iraqi Freedom, while it projects defense
parts and service sales to be consistent with fiscal 2005 sales.   

The
Company estimates the commercial segment s sales growth percentage to be in the low
single digits range in fiscal 2006 as higher pricing and flat volume is expected to be
offset by a lower mix of package sales of a truck chassis and a truck body. While the
Company believes that industry demand for concrete mixers and refuse packers in the U.S.
in fiscal 2006 will increase 5% to 10% in advance of a diesel engine emissions standards
change that becomes effective on January 1, 2007, the Company is projecting a loss in
market share due to the price increases it put in place to recover increased steel and
component costs. The Company expects that Geesink Norba Group refuse product sales will
also be up slightly in fiscal 2006.   

The
Company is projecting consolidated operating income to be up between 18.4% and 23.1% in
fiscal 2006 resulting in operating income of between $316.5 million and $329.0 million,
respectively.   

The
Company is projecting fire and emergency segment margins to be relatively flat in fiscal
2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 as start-up costs related to a facility expansion at
Pierce are expected to offset other margin improvement initiatives.   

The
Company is projecting defense segment operating income margins to decrease approximately
200 basis points in fiscal 2006 as fiscal 2005 results benefited from $24.7 million of
MTVR base contract margin adjustments.   

In
the commercial segment, the Company projects operating income margins to double in fiscal
2006 as a result of a pricing strategy for the Company s U.S. product lines that was
implemented to recover steel and component cost increases experienced in fiscal 2004 and
2005. The Company also expects its European refuse business to be modestly profitable in
fiscal 2006 as a result of the restructuring of that business in fiscal 2004 and 2005
compared to an $8.6 million operating loss in fiscal 2005.   

The
Company estimates that corporate operating expenses and inter-segment profit eliminations
will increase $13.6 million to approximately $60.0 million in fiscal 2006. The increase
reflects higher personnel costs related to new hires and stock option expense as a result
of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) effective October 1, 2005. Also, fiscal 2005 results
benefited from $4.2 million of favorable product liability settlements in the first
quarter. The Company estimates that interest expense net of interest income and other
expenses will decrease $3.6 million to $3.5 million in fiscal 2006 largely due to the
repayment of the debt associated with the acquisitions in fiscal 2005 and higher interest
income on higher estimated average cash balances in fiscal 2006.   

The
Company estimates that in fiscal 2006 its effective income tax rate will decrease from the
fiscal 2005 effective rate to approximately 39.0%, equity in earnings of unconsolidated
affiliates will approximate $2.0 million and minority interest in earnings will
approximate $0.5 million. These estimates result in the Company s estimate of fiscal
2006 net income between $192.5 million and $200.0 million and earnings per share between
$2.55 and $2.65 per share. The Company expects that earnings per share in its second
quarter will approximate $0.58 to $0.62 per share.   

By
September 30, 2006, the Company expects to generate cash balances of $200 to $225 million
that the Company could utilize to further its acquisition strategy, for stock repurchases
and/or to increase dividend payments to contribute to shareholder returns. The Company
anticipates capital spending to approximate $60.0 million in fiscal 2006.   

28   

In
fiscal 2007, the Company believes that its financial results will improve over expected
fiscal 2006 results. The Company believes that its defense segment sales will increase in
fiscal 2007 over fiscal 2006 given the duration and intensity of Operation Iraqi Freedom
and the U.S. Army s modularity initiative, which, among other things, are expected to
increase the DoD s requirements for the Company s tactical trucks and for the
remanufacturing of such trucks damaged in the conflict. However, due to the complexities
of U.S. funding for Operation Iraqi Freedom, the status of the federal budget overall and
the unpredictable nature of military conflicts, the Company cannot provide assurance that
its defense segment sales will increase in fiscal 2007. The Company further believes that
market conditions in its fire and emergency segment will remain strong in fiscal 2007 to
permit improved operating results in the segment. The Company expects its price increase
and cost reduction initiatives in its commercial segment will offset the impact of any
demand decreases expected in fiscal 2007 from the effects of the diesel engine emissions
standards changes.   

For
fiscal years 2008 and 2009, the Company anticipates that the DoD requirements from
Operation Iraqi Freedom will remain high, but total defense sales may decline during this
period. The Company cannot reasonably expect to maintain its defense sales and operating
income at the unprecedented levels of fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005 and at the expected
sales levels in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007 over the long-term unless new military
conflicts arise or the Company is successful in expanding its military truck product
offering. As a result, the Company expects to derive most of its sales and earnings
growth, if any, after fiscal 2007 from its non-defense segments and from acquisitions.
Given the Company s low indebtedness at December 31, 2005, its cash position,
significant unused availability under its revolving credit facility and the Company s
expectations for cash flow in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007, the Company believes that it
has substantial financial resources to maintain an active acquisition strategy in support
of its growth strategy over the next three to five years. However, the Company cannot
predict whether any acquisitions can be consummated at favorable prices and integrated
effectively over the next few years given the uncertainties involved in targeting,
negotiating and integrating acquisitions.   

Certain Assumptions    

The
expectations set forth in  Executive Overview  and  Fiscal 2006 and Beyond
Outlook  are forward-looking statements and are based in part on certain assumptions
made by the Company, some of which are referred to in, or as part of, the forward-looking
statements. These assumptions include, without limitation, that the Company will be able
to turnaround the business of the Geesink Norba Group sufficiently to support its current
valuation resulting in no non-cash impairment charge for Geesink Norba Group goodwill; the
Company s ability to increase its operating income margins at McNeilus; the
Company s ability to recover steel and component cost increases with selling price
increases to its customers; anticipated commercial segment sales in advance of and
following a diesel engine emissions standards change effective January 1, 2007; the
Company s estimates for the level of concrete placement activity, housing starts and
mortgage rates; the performance of the U.S. and European economies generally; the
Company s expectations as to timing of receipt of sales orders and payments and
execution and funding of defense contracts; the Company s ability to achieve cost
reductions and operating efficiencies, in particular at McNeilus and the Geesink Norba
Group; the anticipated level of production and margins associated with the Family of Heavy
Tactical Vehicles contract, the Indefinite Demand/Indefinite Quantity contract, the MTVR
follow-on contract and international defense truck contracts; the expected level of DoD
procurement of replacement parts and services and remanufacturing of trucks and funding
thereof; the Company s estimates for capital expenditures of municipalities for fire
and emergency and refuse products, of airports for aircraft rescue and snow removal
products and of large commercial waste haulers generally and with the Company; federal
funding levels for Department of Homeland Security and spending by governmental entities
on homeland security apparatus; the availability of chassis components including engines
and commercial chassis generally; the Company s planned spending on product
development and bid and proposal activities with respect to defense truck procurement
competitions and the outcome of such competitions; the expected level of commercial
 package  body and purchased chassis sales compared to  body only 
sales; the Company s ability to integrate acquired businesses and achieve expected
synergies; the Company s estimates of the impact of changing fuel prices and credit
availability on capital spending of towing operators; anticipated levels of capital
expenditures; the Company s estimates for costs relating to litigation, product
warranty, insurance, stock options and restricted stock awards, personnel and raw
materials; the Company s estimates for debt levels, interest rates, working capital
needs and effective tax rates; and that the Company does not complete any further
acquisitions. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the assumptions referred to in
the forward-looking statements or otherwise are accurate or will prove to have been
correct. Any assumptions that are inaccurate or do not prove to be correct could have a
material adverse effect on the Company s ability to achieve the results that the
forward-looking statements contemplate.   

29   

ITEM 3.  QUANTITATIVE AND
QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   

The
Company s quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for changes in
interest rates and foreign exchange risk are incorporated by reference in Item 7A of the
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005 and have
not materially changed since that report was filed except as noted below.   

The
Company s export sales have historically been denominated in the Company s
functional currency, the U.S. dollar. In March 2003, the Company entered into a multi-year
contract to provide Wheeled Tanker systems to the U.K. MoD. This contract, which is
included in the Company s backlog at December 31, 2005 and which calls for deliveries
in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007, is denominated in British Sterling. Additionally, in
connection with this Wheeled Tanker contract, the Company has entered into requirements
subcontracts with various third parties. Certain of these subcontracts call for payments
in Euro and British Sterling. The Company has hedged a significant portion of the
forecasted cash flows related to this contract by entering into forward foreign exchange
contracts. Any portion of these contractual cash flows that remain unhedged will subject
the Company to foreign currency transaction risk and related financial volatility. See
 Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  for details
regarding the Company s use of forward foreign exchange contracts in connection with
the Wheeled Tanker contract and other forecasted purchases and sales denominated in
foreign currency.   

ITEM 4.  CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES   

Evaluation
of disclosure controls and procedures . In accordance with Rule 13a-15(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ), the Company s
management evaluated, with the participation of the Company s Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer, the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the
end of the quarter ended December 31, 2005. Based upon their evaluation of these
disclosure controls and procedures, the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the quarter
ended December 31, 2005 to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company
in the reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported, within the time period specified in the SEC rules and forms, and
to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files
or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company s
management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as
appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

Changes
in internal control . McNeilus is in the process of a three-phase implementation to
upgrade its financial systems to an integrated enterprise resource planning system (the
 ERP System ). The implementation included the installation in October 2005 of
new hardware and software and resulted in certain changes to business processes and
internal controls impacting financial reporting.  Additional major hardware and software
changes are scheduled for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and the first half of fiscal
2007. Management is taking the necessary steps to monitor and maintain appropriate
internal controls during this period of change. These steps include providing training
related to business process changes and the ERP System software to individuals using the
ERP System to carry out their job responsibilities as well as those who rely on the
financial information. Oversight activities have increased during the transition period
and a support organization has been established to monitor system operations, answer user
questions, resolve issues in a timely manner, and report trends to management. Also,
redundant controls have been established in key areas to assure the accuracy of financial
reporting.    

There
were no other changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2005 that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.   

30   

PART II   OTHER
INFORMATION   

ITEM 1.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   

None.   

ITEM 2.  UNREGISTERED SALES
OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS   

In
July 1995, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to
6,000,000 shares of the Company s Common Stock. The Company did not repurchase any
shares under the authorization during the quarter ended December 31, 2005. As of December
31, 2005, the Company had authority to repurchase 3,230,790 shares of Common Stock under
that program. The repurchase authorization does not expire.   

ITEM 6.  EXHIBITS   

Exhibit No.     
   Description    

31.1    
  Certification
by the Chairman,  President and Chief Executive Officer,  pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley  Act, dated February 2, 2006.  

31.2    
  Certification
by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Section 302 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, dated February 2, 2006.   

31   

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.   

OSHKOSH
TRUCK CORPORATION   

February 2, 2006  
        /S/ R. G. Bohn    

R. G. Bohn   

Chairman, President and   

Chief Executive Officer   

(Principal Executive Officer)   
 
         February 2, 2006  
        /S/ C. L. Szews    

C. L. Szews   

Executive Vice President and   

Chief Financial Officer   

(Principal Financial Officer)   
 
         February 2, 2006  
        /S/ T. J. Polnaszek    

T. J. Polnaszek   

Vice President and Controller   

(Principal Accounting Officer)   

32   

EXHIBIT INDEX   

Exhibit No.     
   Description    

31.1    
  Certification
by the Chairman,  President and Chief Executive Officer,  pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, dated February 2, 2006.   

31.2    
  Certification
by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Section 302 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, dated February 2, 2006.   

33   

<EX-31.1>
 2
 dbk105a.htm
 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit (31.1)   

CERTIFICATIONS    

I, Robert G. Bohn,
certify that:    

1.   
  I
have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Oshkosh Truck Corporation;   

2.   
  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
          material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
          made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
          misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.   
  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
          included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
          condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
          for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.   
  The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
          establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
          Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
          reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
          for the registrant and have:   

(a)   
  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
               controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that                material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated                subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly                during the period in which this report is being
prepared;   

(b)   
  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
               control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
               provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting                and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance                with generally accepted accounting principles;   

(c)   
  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
               procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness                of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered                by this report based on such evaluation; and   

(d)   
  Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control                over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
               fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of
an                annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
               materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
               reporting; and   

5.   
  The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on           our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
          registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board
of           directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):   

(a)   
  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
               of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to                adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and                report financial information; and   

(b)   
  Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
               who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
               financial reporting.   

February 2, 2006  
        /S/ Robert G. Bohn    

Robert G. Bohn   

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 dbk105b.htm
 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit (31.2)   

CERTIFICATIONS    

I, Charles L. Szews, certify that:   

1.   
  I
have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Oshkosh Truck Corporation;   

2.   
  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
          material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
          made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
          misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.   
  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
          included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
          condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
          for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.   
  The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
          establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
          Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
          reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
          for the registrant and have:   

(a)   
  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
               controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that                material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated                subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly                during the period in which this report is being
prepared;   

(b)   
  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
               control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
               provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting                and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance                with generally accepted accounting principles;   

(c)   
  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
               procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness                of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered                by this report based on such evaluation; and   

(d)   
  Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control                over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
               fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of
an                annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
               materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
               reporting; and   

5.   
  The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on           our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
          registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board
of           directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):   

(a)   
  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
               of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to                adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and                report financial information; and    

(b)   
  Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
               who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
               financial reporting.    

February 2, 2006  
        /S/ Charles L. Szews    

Charles L. Szews   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 dbk105c.htm
 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit (32.1)   

Written Statement of the
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350    

Solely for the purposes of complying
with 18 U.S.C.    1350, I, the undersigned Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer of Oshkosh Truck Corporation (the  Company ), hereby certify,
to the best of my knowledge, that the quarterly report on Form 10-Q of the Company for the
quarter ended December 31, 2005 (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information
contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
and results of operations of the Company.   

/S/ Robert G. Bohn   Robert
G. Bohn February 2, 2006    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 dbk105d.htm
 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit (32.2)   

Written Statement of the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350    

Solely for the purposes of complying
with 18 U.S.C.    1350, I, the undersigned Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer of Oshkosh Truck Corporation (the  Company ), hereby certify,
to the best of my knowledge, that the quarterly report on Form 10-Q of the Company for the
quarter ended December 31, 2005 (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information
contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
and results of operations of the Company.   

/S/ Charles L. Szews 
 Charles L. Szews February 2, 2006    

</EX-32.2>

