<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060203_10-Q_edgar_data_743988_0001104659-06-005934_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1126328</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>122565</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>740595</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>31</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-005934.hdr.sgml : 20060203
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060203165030
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-005934
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060203
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060203

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			XILINX INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000743988
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				770188631
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0403

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-18548
		FILM NUMBER:		06578532

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2100 LOGIC DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95124
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4085597778

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2100 LOGIC DRIVE
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95124

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 H8pSn9VsfV4C0UH2N0U8C9MY7X/17lYM1SMlxMAYfR1Eqk1v7zEmk5fnwYl0C0h5
 nPvDeNKLL7gscD15lxaQYA==

 0001104659-06-005934.txt : 20060203

10-Q
 1
 a06-4164_110q.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   WASHINGTON,
D.C.  20549   

FORM 10-Q   

(Mark One)   

Commission
File Number   0-18548   

Xilinx,
Inc   .  

  (Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)  

(408) 559-7778   

  (Registrant s
telephone number, including area code)  

N/A   

  (Former
name, former address, and former fiscal year, if changed since last report)  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  

  Yes                No    o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  

  Yes               No 
  o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  

  Yes    o          No 

Shares outstanding of the Registrant s common
stock:  

Part
I.                     Financial
Information   

Item 1.  Financial Statements    

XILINX,
INC.  

  CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  

  (Unaudited)  

See
notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  

2  

XILINX,
INC.  

   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  

(1)           Derived
from audited financial statements  

See
notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  

3  

XILINX,
INC.  

  CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

  (Unaudited)  

See
notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  

4  

XILINX,
INC.  

  NOTES
TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

  (Unaudited)  

1.                   Basis of Presentation  

The accompanying
interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles
for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article
10 of Regulation S-X, and should be read in conjunction with the Xilinx, Inc.
(Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended April 2, 2005. 
The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all
adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring
nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods
presented.  The results of operations for
the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the
results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending April 1, 2006 or any
future period.  

The Company uses a
52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March 31.  Fiscal 2006 is a 52-week year ending on April
1, 2006.  Fiscal 2005, which ended on
April 2, 2005, was also a 52-week fiscal year. 
The first, second and third quarters of fiscal 2006 and 2005 were all
13-week quarters.  

Reclassifications  

Certain immaterial amounts
from the prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period s
presentation.  These changes had no
impact on previously reported net income.  

During the second quarter
of fiscal 2006, the Company made a reclassification adjustment of $502.6
million between additional paid-in capital and retained earnings.  This reclassification adjustment was a result
of miscalculations on the gains and losses from the reissuance of the Company s
treasury shares for fiscal 1995 through the first quarter of fiscal 2006. This
miscalculation resulted in an intra-equity reclassification between additional
paid-in capital and retained earnings and had no impact on the Company s
earnings, financial trends or ratios in any period.  Total stockholders  equity remained unchanged
after the reclassification.  

2.                  Recent
Accounting Pronouncements 

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial    Accounting Standards No. 123(R),  Share-Based
Payment: An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 123 and 95  [SFAS 123(R)].  This statement replaces SFAS No. 123,  Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation  (SFAS 123) and supersedes Accounting Principles
Board s Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  (APB
25).  In March 2005, the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107)
regarding the SEC s interpretation of SFAS 123(R) and the valuation of
share-based payments for public companies. 
SFAS 123(R) will require the Company to measure the cost of all employee
stock-based compensation awards that are expected to be exercised and which are
granted after the effective date based on the grant date fair value of those
awards and to record that cost as compensation expense over the period during
which the employee is required to perform service in exchange for the award
(generally over the vesting period of the award).  SFAS 123(R) addresses all forms of
share-based payment awards, including shares issued under employee stock
purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation
rights.  In addition, the Company is
required to record compensation expense (as previous awards continue to vest)
for the unvested portion of previously granted awards that remain outstanding
at the date of adoption. SFAS 123(R) will become effective for annual periods
beginning after June 15, 2005.  The
Company will be required to implement the standard no later than the quarter
beginning April 2, 2006.  SFAS 123(R)
permits public companies to adopt its requirements using either prospective
recognition of compensation expense or retrospective recognition.  The Company plans to adopt SFAS 123(R) using
the modified-prospective method.  As
permitted by SFAS 123, the Company currently accounts for share-based payments
to employees using APB 25 s intrinsic value method and, as such, generally
recognizes no compensation cost for employee stock options.  Accordingly, the adoption of SFAS 123(R) s
fair value method will have a significant impact on the Company s results of
operations.  The impact of adoption of
SFAS 123(R) cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend on levels
of share-based payments granted in the future.  

5  

In December 2004,
the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 109-2,  Accounting and
Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004  (FSP 109-2).  On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004 (the AJCA) was signed into law.  The AJCA provides a one-time 85% dividends
received deduction for certain foreign earnings that are repatriated under a
plan for reinvestment in the U.S., provided certain criteria are met. FSP 109-2
is effective immediately and provides accounting and disclosure guidance for
the repatriation provision.  During the
third quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company s Chief Executive Officer and its
Board of Directors approved a domestic reinvestment plan to repatriate $500.0
million in earnings of its foreign subsidiaries qualifying for the 85%
dividends received deduction under the AJCA. 
The tax effect of the repatriation dividend was recorded during the
third quarter of fiscal 2006 resulting in an approximate increase in federal
income tax expense of $21.9 million and state income tax of $3.4 million, net
of federal benefit.  

In
August 2005, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 123(R)-1,  Classification and
Measurement of Freestanding Financial Instruments Originally Issued in Exchange
for Employee Services under FASB Statement 123(R).   This guidance applies to equity shares, as
well as stock options, and requires that a freestanding financial instrument
issued to an employee in exchange for past or future employee services that is
subject to SFAS 123(R) shall continue to be subject to the recognition and
measurement provisions of SFAS 123(R) throughout the life of the instrument,
unless its terms are modified when the holder is no longer an employee.  The effective date of this guidance is upon
initial adoption of SFAS 123(R). The Company is currently evaluating the new
guidance.  

In
October 2005, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 123(R)-2,  Practical
Accommodation to the Application of Grant Date as Defined in FASB Statement
No. 123(R)  (FSP 123(R)-2).  
SFAS 123(R) requires companies to estimate the fair value of share-based
payment awards when the awards have been granted.  One of the criteria for
determining that an award has been granted is that the employer and its
employees have a mutual understanding of the key terms and conditions of the
award.  Under FSP 123(R)-2, a mutual understanding is presumed to exist on
the date the award is approved by the Board of Directors or management with
relevant authority, assuming certain conditions are met.  FSP 123(R)-2 is
applicable upon initial adoption of SFAS 123(R) or, for companies that adopted
SFAS 123(R) prior to the issuance of FSP 123(R)-2, the guidance shall be
applied to the first reporting period after the date the FSP is posted to the
FASB website.  Xilinx will apply the guidance in FSP 123(R)-2 beginning on
April 2, 2006.  The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this
guidance will have a material impact on its financial condition or results of
operations.  

In
November 2005, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 123(R)-3,  Transition Election
Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards 
(FSP 123(R)-3). FSP 123(R)-3 provides an elective alternative method
that establishes a computational component to arrive at the beginning balance
of the accumulated paid-in capital pool related to employee compensation and a
simplified method to determine the subsequent impact on the accumulated paid-in
capital pool of employee awards that are fully vested and outstanding upon the
adoption of SFAS 123(R).  The Company is
currently evaluating this transition method.  

In November 2005,
the FASB issued FSP Nos. FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1,  The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments (FSP
115-1),  which replaces the measurement and recognition guidance set forth in
the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03-1,  The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments, 
and codifies certain existing guidance on investment impairment.  FSP 115-1 clarifies that an investor should
recognize an impairment loss no later than when the impairment is deemed
other-than-temporary, even if a decision to sell the security has not been
made, and also provides guidance on the subsequent accounting for an impaired
debt security.  FSP 115-1 also requires
certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been recognized as
other-than-temporary impairments.  The
guidance in FSP 115-1 amends SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities  and is effective for reporting periods beginning
after December 15, 2005.  Xilinx plans to
adopt the provisions of FSP 115-1 beginning on January 1, 2006 and the adoption
is not expected to have a material impact on its financial condition or results
of operations.  

3.                   Stock-Based Compensation  

The
Company accounts for stock-based compensation under APB 25 and related
interpretations, using the intrinsic value method.  In addition, the Company has adopted the
disclosure requirements related to its stock plans according to SFAS 123, as
amended by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation-Transition
and Disclosure  (SFAS 148).  

6  

As
required by SFAS 148, the following table shows the estimated effect on net
income and net income per share as if the Company had applied the fair value
recognition provisions of SFAS 123 to stock-based compensation:  

The fair values of
stock options and stock purchase plan rights under the Company s stock option
plans and employee stock purchase plan were estimated as of the grant date
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. 
The Black-Scholes model was originally developed for use in estimating a
fair value of traded options and requires the input of highly subjective
assumptions including expected stock price volatility.  The Company s stock options and stock
purchase plan rights have characteristics significantly different from those of
traded options, and changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially
affect the fair value estimates.  In the
first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company modified its volatility assumption to
use implied volatility for options granted. Previously, the Company used only
historical volatility in deriving its volatility assumption.  Management determined that implied volatility
is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected
volatility than historical volatility. 
Calculated under SFAS 123, the per share weighted-average fair value of
stock options granted during the third quarter of fiscal 2006 was $7.80 ($14.99
for the third quarter of fiscal 2005) and for the first nine months of fiscal
2006 was $7.91 ($20.33 for the first nine months of fiscal 2005).  The pro forma stock-based employee
compensation expenses for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal
2005 have been adjusted for changes in the application of volatility
assumptions used in estimating the fair value of employee stock options issued
during this nine-month period.  The
adjustment had no material impact to the pro forma condensed consolidated
financial statements.  Under the Company s
1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (Stock Purchase Plan), shares are
only issued during the second and fourth quarters of the Company s fiscal
year.  The per share weighted-average
fair values of stock purchase rights granted under the Stock Purchase Plan
during the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and 2005 were $7.47 and $10.23,
respectively.  

Under the Stock
Purchase Plan, employees purchased 631 thousand shares for $15.2 million in the
second quarter of fiscal 2006 and 934 thousand shares for $15.0 million in the
second quarter of fiscal 2005.  No shares
were issued during the first or third quarters of fiscal 2006 or 2005.  The next scheduled purchase under the Stock
Purchase Plan is in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  On August 4, 2005, the stockholders approved
an amendment to increase the authorized number of shares available for issuance
under the Stock Purchase Plan by 7.0 million shares.  At December 31, 2005, 8.7 million shares were
available for future issuance out of 34.5 million shares authorized.  

4.                  Net
Income Per Common Share 

The computation of
basic net income per common share for all periods presented is derived from the
information on the condensed consolidated statements of income, and there are
no reconciling items in the numerator used to compute diluted net income per
common share.  The total shares used in
the denominator of the diluted net income per common share calculation includes
5.0 million and 6.2 million common equivalent shares attributable to
outstanding stock options for the third quarter and the first nine months of
fiscal 2006,  

7  

respectively, that
are not included in basic net income per common share.  For the third quarter and the first nine
months of fiscal 2005, the total shares used in the denominator of the diluted
net income per common share calculation includes 9.8 million and 11.0 million
common equivalent shares attributable to outstanding stock options,
respectively.  

Outstanding
out-of-the-money stock options to purchase approximately 37.6 million and 31.3
million shares, for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006,
respectively, under the Company s stock option plans were excluded from diluted
net income per common share, applying the treasury stock method, as their
inclusion would have been antidilutive. 
These options could be dilutive in the future if the Company s average
share price increases and is greater than the exercise price of these
options.  For the third quarter and the
first nine months of fiscal 2005, respectively, 29.3 million and 28.7 million
of the Company s stock options outstanding were excluded from the calculation.  

5.                   Inventories  

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined using the
first-in, first-out method), or market (estimated net realizable value) and are
comprised of the following:  

6.                   Investment in United
Microelectronics Corporation  

At December 31,
2005, the fair value of the Company s equity investment in United
Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) stock totaled $242.4 million. The Company
accounts for its investment in UMC as available-for-sale marketable securities
in accordance with SFAS 115.  

The following
table summarizes the cost basis and fair values of the investment in UMC:  

During the first
nine months of fiscal 2006, the fair value of the UMC investment decreased by
$3.7 million.  The fair value of the
Company s total UMC investment decreased by $43.7 million during the three
months ended December 31, 2005.  At
December 31, 2005, the Company recorded $1.4 million of deferred tax
liabilities and a net $2.0 million balance in accumulated other comprehensive
income associated with the UMC investment. 
As of December 31, 2005, the Company classified $32.7 million in fair
value ($32.2 million in adjusted cost) of the UMC investment as short-term because
the Company intends to sell this portion of the investment within the next 12
months.  

7.                   Common Stock
Repurchase Programs  

The Board of
Directors has approved stock repurchase programs enabling the Company to
repurchase its common stock in the open market. 
During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company completed its
$250.0 million repurchase program announced in April 2004 by repurchasing 2.1
million shares for $56.9 million.  On
April 20, 2005, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional
$350.0 million of common stock.  This
share repurchase program has no stated expiration date.  Through December 31, 2005, the Company had
repurchased $151.1 million of the $350.0 million of common stock approved for
repurchase under the April 2005 authorization. 
As of December 31, 2005, the Company held no shares of treasury stock in
conjunction with the stock repurchase program due to the retirement of all
treasury shares repurchased as of the end of the third quarter of fiscal
2006.  Beginning with the third quarter
of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted the policy of retiring all treasury
shares.  The Company held no shares of
treasury stock in conjunction with the stock  

8  

repurchase program
as of April 2, 2005 since all treasury shares had been reissued under the
employee stock option plans.  

During the first nine months
of fiscal 2006, the Company entered into stock repurchase agreements with an
independent financial institution.  Under
these agreements, Xilinx provided this financial institution with up-front
payments totaling $125.0 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 ($225.0
million for the first nine months of fiscal 2006).  The financial institution agreed to deliver
to Xilinx a certain number of shares based upon the volume weighted-average
price, during the contract period, less a specified discount. As of December
31, 2005, no up-front payment balances remained under these agreements.  In addition, under the guidelines of SEC Rule
10b5-1, Xilinx entered into other agreements with the same independent
financial institution in the first and second quarters to repurchase additional
shares on its behalf after the conclusion of the purchase periods of the
aforementioned agreements.  No additional
shares were repurchased in the third quarter after the conclusion of the
aforementioned agreements.  

During the third
quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006, the Company repurchased a
total of 5.0 million and 10.5 million shares of common stock for $125.0 million
and $274.9 million, respectively, as adjusted for accrued and unsettled
transactions and including the amounts purchased by the independent financial
institution and remitted to the Company. 
During the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2005, the
Company repurchased a total of 1.2 million and 3.3 million shares of common
stock for $36.1 million and $103.0 million, respectively, as adjusted for
accrued and unsettled transactions.  

8.                   Impairment Loss  

The Company
recognized an impairment loss on investments of $3.1 million during the third
quarter of fiscal 2005 related to non-marketable equity securities in private
companies.  These impairment losses
resulted from certain investees diluting Xilinx s investment through the
receipt of an additional round of investment at a lower valuation or from the
liquidation of certain investees.  

9.                   Comprehensive Income  

The components of
comprehensive income are as follows:  

The
components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31,
2005 and April 2, 2005 are as follows:  

The change in the
accumulated unrealized loss on available-for-sale securities, net of tax, at
December 31, 2005, primarily reflects the decrease in value of the UMC
investment since April 2, 2005 (see Note 6).  In  

9  

addition, the
unrealized loss on the Company s short-term and long-term investments increased
by $1.2 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2006.  

10.             Significant Customers and
Concentrations of Credit Risk  

Xilinx is subject to
concentrations of credit risk primarily in its trade accounts receivable and
investments in debt securities to the extent of the amounts recorded on the
condensed consolidated balance sheet. 
The Company attempts to mitigate the concentration of credit risk in its
trade receivables through its credit evaluation process, collection terms,
distributor sales to diverse end customers and through geographical dispersion
of sales.  Xilinx generally does not
require collateral for receivables from its end customers or distributors.  

On
April 26, 2005, two of the Company s distributors, Avnet, Inc. (Avnet) and the
Memec Group (Memec), announced that they had reached a definitive agreement for
Avnet to acquire Memec.  On July 5, 2005,
Avnet announced that it had completed its acquisition of Memec.  As of December 31, 2005, the combined
Avnet/Memec entity accounted for 72% of the Company s total accounts
receivable.  Had this acquisition been
completed for all periods presented, resale of product through this combined
entity would have accounted for 69% and 74% of the Company s worldwide net
revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, and 71%
and 76% in the first nine months of fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively.  No end customer accounted for more than 10%
of the Company s net revenues for any of the periods presented.  

The Company
mitigates concentrations of credit risk in its investments in debt securities
by investing more than 80% of its portfolio in AA or higher grade securities as
rated by Standard   Poor s. 
Additionally, Xilinx limits its investments in the debt securities of a
single issuer and attempts to further mitigate credit risk by diversifying risk
across geographies and type of issuer.  

11.             Income Taxes  

The Company
recorded tax provisions of $49.8 million and $85.4 million for the third
quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006, respectively, representing
effective tax rates of 38% and 26%, respectively.  The Company recorded tax provisions of $11.0
million and $62.3 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of
fiscal 2005, respectively, representing effective tax rates of 15% and 20%,
respectively.  

When compared to
the same period last year, the increase in the effective tax rate for the third
quarter of fiscal 2006 reflects an increase in relative growth of U.S. profits
which are generally taxed at higher rates than international profits.  Additionally, during the third quarter of
fiscal 2006, the Company s Chief Executive Officer and its Board of Directors
approved a $500.0 million repatriation dividend from its foreign subsidiaries
that will qualify for the 85% dividends received deduction under the provisions
of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. 
The dividend will be paid prior to the end of the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2006.  The tax effect of the
repatriation dividend recorded in the third quarter resulted in a net increase
in federal and state tax (net of federal benefit) of $25.3 million.  The negative effects are partially offset by
approximately $5.9 million in tax benefit related to the recognition of
deferred tax assets for state research and development (R D) tax credits
where the Company has  determined that it
is more likely than not that the asset will be realized.  The state R D tax credits will be
utilized, in part, to offset California tax on the repatriation dividend.  Also included in the first nine months of
fiscal 2006 was the positive effect of a favorable U.S. Tax Court decision and
an increase in tax credits for R D and affordable housing.  

The first nine
months of fiscal 2005 included the recognition of positive tax benefits related
to agreements with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for fiscal 1996 through
2001 and favorable adjustments for R D tax credits claimed on federal and
state income tax returns in excess of previous estimates.  The positive benefits were partially offset
by the negative effect of a non-deductible write-off of acquired in-process
R D, related to the acquisition of Hier Design Inc. (HDI) in June 2004.  

The IRS audited
and issued proposed adjustments to the Company for fiscal 1996 through
2001.  The Company filed petitions with
the U.S. Tax Court in response to assertions by the IRS relating to fiscal 1996
through 2000.  In addition, the IRS
proposed adjustments to the Company s net operating loss for fiscal 2001. To
date, all issues have been settled with the IRS except as described in the
following paragraph.  

On August 30, 2005, the
U.S. Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options
must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland.  The U.S. Tax Court agreed with the Company
that no amount for stock options is to be included in the cost sharing
agreement.  Thus, the U.S. Tax Court  

10  

determined that the
Company has no tax, interest or penalties due for this issue.  The IRS has not indicated whether it will
appeal the decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.  

12.            Commitments 

Xilinx leases some
of its facilities and office buildings under operating leases that expire at
various dates through February 2026. 
Some of the operating leases require payment of operating costs,
including property taxes, repairs, maintenance and insurance.  

Approximate future
minimum lease payments under operating leases are as follows:  

Most of the Company s leases
contain renewal options for varying terms. 
Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was
approximately $1.5 million and $4.9 million for the third quarter and the first
nine months of fiscal 2006, respectively. 
Rent expense, net of rental income, was approximately $1.6 million and
$3.5 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2005,
respectively.  

In November 2005, Xilinx
announced a $40.0 million investment in a new building in Singapore, the
Company s Asia regional headquarters. 
The project is expected to be completed in June 2007.  

Other commitments at
December 31, 2005 totaled approximately $84.2 million and consisted of
purchases of inventory and other non-cancelable purchase obligations related to
subcontractors that manufacture silicon wafers and provide assembly and test
services.  The Company expects to receive
and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as
the products meet delivery and quality specifications.  As of December 31, 2005, the Company also has
approximately $17.8 million of non-cancelable obligations to providers of
electronic design automation software expiring at various dates through July
2008.  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal
2005, the Company committed up to $20.0 million to acquire, in the future,
rights to intellectual property.  License
payments will be amortized over the useful life of the intellectual property
acquired.  

13.             Product Warranty and
Indemnification  

The Company generally sells products with a limited
warranty for product quality.  The
Company provides for known product issues if a loss is probable and can be
reasonably estimated.  The following
table summarizes the warranty reserve activity for the first nine months of
fiscal 2006 and 2005:  

The Company
generally sells its products with a limited indemnification of customers
against intellectual property infringement claims related to the Company s
products.  Xilinx has historically
received only a limited number of requests for indemnification under these
provisions and has not been required to make any significant payments pursuant
to these provisions.  

11  

14.            Contingencies 

The
Company filed petitions with the U.S. Tax Court in response to assertions by
the IRS that the Company owed additional tax for fiscal 1996 through 2000.  On August 30, 2005, the U.S. Tax Court issued
its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options should be included in
the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. 
The U.S. Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock
options should be included in the cost sharing agreement.  Accordingly, it was determined that the
Company has no additional liability for tax, interest or penalties on this
issue.  The IRS has not indicated whether
it will appeal the decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.  Other than these petitions, Xilinx knows of
no legal proceedings contemplated by any governmental authority or agency
against the Company.  

The
Company allowed sales representative agreements with three related European
entities, Rep tronic S.A., Rep tronic Espa a, and Acsis S.r.l., a Rep tronic
Company (collectively Rep tronic) to expire pursuant to their terms on March
31, 2003.  Rep tronic pursued claims
allegedly arising from the expiration of these contracts against Xilinx Ireland
and Xilinx Sarl in the High Court of Ireland, the Labor Court of Versailles
(France) and the Commercial Court of Versailles (France).  The proceeding in the French Commercial Court
was decided in favor of the Company in June 2005.   In November 2005, the Company settled all
outstanding litigation with Rep tronic. The settlement payment was provided for
through prior accruals through the second quarter of fiscal 2006 under SFAS 5,  Accounting
for Contingencies .  

On October 17, 2005, a
patent infringement lawsuit was filed by Lizy K. John (John) against Xilinx,
Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall
Division.  John seeks an injunction,
unspecified damages and attorneys  fees.  
The Company filed its answer on January 2, 2006, denying John s
allegations and including a counterclaim for declaratory judgment.  John filed her reply on January 20, 2006.  As of December 31, 2005, no trial date had
been set, the initial case management conference had not been scheduled and
discovery had not commenced.  Neither the
likelihood, nor the amount of any potential exposure to the Company is
estimable at this time.  

Except as stated
above, there are no pending legal proceedings of a material nature to which the
Company is a party or of which any of its property is the subject.  

15.             Goodwill and
Acquisition-Related Intangibles  

As of December 31, 2005 and April 2, 2005, the gross and net amounts of
goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles for all acquisitions were as
follows:  

12  

Amortization
expense for all intangible assets for the third quarter and the first nine
months of fiscal 2006 was $1.5 million and $5.1 million, respectively.  For the third quarter and the first nine
months of fiscal 2005, amortization expense for all intangible assets was $1.8
million and $4.9 million, respectively. 
Intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis.  Based on the carrying value of acquisition-related
intangibles recorded at December 31, 2005, and assuming no subsequent
impairment of the underlying assets, the annual amortization expense for
acquisition-related intangibles is expected to be as follows: fiscal 2006
(remaining three months) - $1.4 million; 2007 - $5.6 million; 2008 - $4.4
million; 2009 - $3.2 million; 2010 - $300 thousand.  

16.             Subsequent Event  

On
January 13, 2006, Xilinx completed the acquisition of AccelChip, Inc.
(AccelChip), a privately-held company that provides MATLAB(R) synthesis
software tools for building digital signal processing (DSP) systems.  The total purchase price was approximately
$21.5 million in cash in exchange for all of the outstanding stock of
AccelChip.  The Company is currently
going through the valuation process which is expected to be completed by the
end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  

Item 2.  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

The statements in this
Management s Discussion and Analysis that are forward looking, within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, involve
numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The
reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Our
actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these
forward-looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed
under  Factors Affecting Future Results  and elsewhere in this document.  Forward-looking statements can often be
identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as  may,   will,   could, 
 should,   expect,   believe,   anticipate,   estimate,   continue,   plan,   intend, 
 project  or other similar words.  We
disclaim any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in
this document.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   

The methods, estimates
and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a
significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
has defined critical accounting policies as those that are most important to
the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require
us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of
the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain.  Based on this definition, our critical
policies include: valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, which
impacts losses on equity securities when we record impairments; revenue
recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; and valuation of
inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin.  Our critical accounting policies also
include: the assessment of impairment of long-lived assets including
acquisition-related intangibles, which impacts their valuation; the assessment
of the recoverability of goodwill, which impacts goodwill impairment; and
accounting for income taxes, which impacts the provision or benefit recognized
for income taxes, as well as the valuation of deferred tax assets recorded on
our consolidated balance sheet.  Below,
we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments
involved.  We also have other key
accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their
application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as
difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial
reporting.  

Valuation
of Marketable and Non-marketable Securities  

The
Company s short-term and long-term investments include marketable and
non-marketable equity and debt securities. 
At December 31, 2005, the Company had an equity investment in UMC, a
publicly-held Taiwanese semiconductor wafer manufacturing company, of $242.4
million and strategic investments in non-marketable equity securities of $21.6
million.  In determining if and when a
decline in market value below adjusted cost of marketable equity and debt
securities is other-than-temporary, the Company evaluates quarterly the market
conditions, trends of earnings, financial condition and other key measures for
our investments.  In determining whether
a decline in value of non-marketable equity investments in private companies is
other-than-temporary, the assessment is made by considering available evidence
including the general market conditions in the investee s industry, the
investee s product development status, the investee s ability to meet business
milestones and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the
individual investee, including the rate at which the investee is using its cash
and the investee s need for possible additional funding at a lower
valuation.   When a decline in value is
deemed to be other-than-  

13  

temporary,
the Company recognizes an impairment loss in the current period s operating
results to the extent of the decline.  

Revenue
Recognition  

Sales to distributors are made under
agreements providing distributor price adjustments and rights of return under
certain circumstances.  Revenue and costs
relating to distributor sales are deferred until products are sold by the
distributors to end customers.  For the
first nine months of fiscal 2006, approximately 86% of our net revenues were
from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment
manufacturers (OEMs) or their subcontract manufacturers.  Revenue recognition depends on notification
from the distributor that product has been sold to the end customer.  Also reported by the distributor are product
resale price, quantity and end customer shipment information, as well as
inventory on hand.  Reported distributor
inventory on hand is reconciled to deferred revenue balances monthly.  We maintain system controls to validate
distributor data and verify that the reported information is accurate.  Deferred income on shipments to distributors
reflects the effects of distributor price adjustments and, the amount of gross
margin expected to be realized when distributors sell through product purchased
from the Company.  Accounts receivable
from distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved when title to
inventories transfers, typically upon shipment from Xilinx at which point we
have a legally enforceable right to collection under normal payment terms.  

Revenue from sales to our
direct customers is recognized upon shipment provided that persuasive evidence
of a sales arrangement exists, the price is fixed, title has transferred,
collection of resulting receivables is reasonably assured, and there are no
customer acceptance requirements and no remaining significant obligations.  For each of the periods presented, there were
no formal acceptance provisions with our direct customers.  

Revenue from software term
licenses is deferred and recognized as revenue over the term of the licenses of
one year.  Revenue from support services
is recognized when the service is performed. 
Revenue from support products, which includes software and services
sales, was approximately 6% to 7% of net revenues for all of the periods
presented.  

Allowances for end
customer sales returns are recorded based on historical experience and for
known pending customer returns or allowances.  

Valuation
of Inventories  

Inventories are stated at the lower of actual
cost (determined using the first-in, first-out method) or market (estimated net
realizable value).  The valuation of
inventory requires us to estimate excess or obsolete inventory as well as inventory
that is not of saleable quality.  We
review and set standard costs quarterly at current manufacturing costs in order
to approximate actual costs.  Our
manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full
absorption of forecasted spending over projected volumes, adjusted for excess
capacity. Given the cyclicality of the market, the obsolescence of technology
and product lifecycles, we write down inventory based on forecasted demand and
technological obsolescence.  These factors
are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product
introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may
include uncertain elements.  The
estimates of future demand that we use in the valuation of inventory are the
basis for our published revenue forecasts, which are also consistent with our
short-term manufacturing plans. If our demand forecast for specific products is
greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output
accordingly, we could be required to write down additional inventory, which
would have a negative impact on our gross margin.  

Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets Including Acquisition-Related Intangibles  

Long-lived assets
and certain identifiable intangible assets to be held and used are reviewed for
impairment if indicators of potential impairment exist.  Impairment indicators are reviewed on a
quarterly basis.  When indicators of
impairment exist and assets are held for use, we estimate future undiscounted
cash flows attributable to the assets. 
In the event such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to
recover the recorded value of the assets, the assets are written down to their
estimated fair values based on the expected discounted future cash flows
attributable to the assets or based on appraisals.  Factors affecting impairment of assets held
for use include the overall profitability of the Company s business and our
ability to generate positive cash flows.  

When assets are
removed from operations and held for sale, we estimate impairment losses as the
excess of the carrying value of the assets over their fair value.  Factors affecting impairment of assets held
for sale include market conditions.  
Changes in any of these factors could necessitate impairment recognition
in future periods for assets held for use or assets held for sale.  

14  

Goodwill  

As required by SFAS No.
142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  (SFAS 142), goodwill is not
amortized but is subject to impairment tests on an annual basis, or more
frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, and goodwill is written
down when it is determined to be impaired. 
We perform an annual impairment review in the fourth quarter of each year
and compare the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides
to its carrying value.  If the carrying
value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially
impaired.  For purposes of impairment
testing under SFAS 142, Xilinx operates as a single reporting unit.  We use the quoted market price method to
determine the fair value of the reporting unit. 
Based on the impairment review performed during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2005, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2005.  Unless there are indicators of impairment,
our next impairment review for RocketChips, Triscend Corporation (Triscend) and
HDI goodwill will be performed and completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal
2006.  To date, no impairment indicators
have been identified.  

Accounting
for Income Taxes  

Xilinx
is a multinational corporation operating in multiple tax jurisdictions.  We must determine the allocation of income to
each of these jurisdictions based on estimates and assumptions and apply the
appropriate tax rates for these jurisdictions. 
We undergo routine audits by taxing authorities regarding the timing and
amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax
jurisdictions.  Tax audits often require
an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments
if changes to the allocation are required between jurisdictions with different
tax rates.  

In
determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain
estimates and judgments.  These estimates
and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the
determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise
from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition
of revenue and expense.  Additionally, we
must estimate the amount and likelihood of potential losses arising from audits
or deficiency notices issued by taxing authorities.  The taxing authorities  positions and our
assessment can change over time resulting in material impacts on the provision
for income taxes in periods when these changes occur.  

We
must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred
tax assets.  If recovery is not likely,
we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a reserve, in the form of
a valuation allowance, for the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not
ultimately be recoverable.  As of
December 31, 2005 and April 2, 2005, we had a valuation allowance for the
deferred tax assets relating to certain California tax credit carryforwards.  

15  

Results of Operations: Third quarter and first nine months of fiscal
2006 compared to the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2005    

The following
table sets forth statement of income data as a percentage of net revenues for
the periods indicated:  

Net Revenues    

Net revenues of $449.6 million in the third
quarter of fiscal 2006 represented a 27% increase from the same period last
year of $355.4 million.  Net revenues for the first nine months of fiscal
2006 were $1.3 billion, a 6% increase from the same period last year of $1.2
billion.  

The increase in net revenues in the third
quarter of fiscal 2006 resulted from broad-based growth across several end
markets, geographies and product lines. 
Sales from the Industrial and Other category were the strongest during
the quarter.  Strength in this category
was driven by increased revenues from test and measurement and defense
applications.  In addition, the
Communications end market, which was impacted during the second quarter of
fiscal 2006 by a decrease in sales to wireless infrastructure, rebounded during
the quarter, driven by increases in both wireless and wireline communications.  

The increase in net revenues for the first
nine months of fiscal 2006 was a result of improved market conditions driven
primarily by strength in Communications and Industrial and Other end
markets.  The first nine months of fiscal
2005 were negatively impacted by various factors that included a
semiconductor-wide inventory correction, a weakened global economy and weakness
in the Communications end market.  These
conditions led to two consecutive quarters of revenue declines for Xilinx in
the second and third quarters of fiscal 2005.  

No end customer accounted for more than 10%
of the Company s net revenues for any of the periods presented.  

Net
Revenues by Product    

We classify our
product offerings into four categories: New, Mainstream, Base and Support Products.  These product categories, excluding Support
Products, are modified on a periodic basis to better reflect advances in
technology.  The most recent modification
was on July 4, 2004, which was the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal
2005.  Amounts for the prior periods have
been reclassified to conform to the recategorization.  New Products  

16  

include our most
recent product offerings and include the Spartan-3 TM , Spartan -3E,
Spartan-IIE TM , Virtex-4 TM , Virtex-II Pro TM ,
EasyPath TM  and CoolRunner-II TM  product lines.  Mainstream Products include the CoolRunner TM ,
Spartan-II TM , SpartanXL TM , Virtex-II TM ,
Virtex-E TM  and Virtex TM  product lines.  Base     Products
consist of our mature product families and include the XC3000, XC3100, XC4000,
XC5200, XC9500, XC9500XL, XC9500XV, XC4000E, XC4000EX, XC4000XL, XC4000XLA,
XC4000XV and Spartan TM  families. 
Support Products make up the remainder of our product offerings and
include configuration solutions (serial PROMs   programmable read only memory),
software, intellectual property (IP) cores, customer training, design services
and support.  

Net revenues by
product categories for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006 were as follows:  

New Products represented 33% and 30% of total
net revenues in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006
respectively, compared to 20% and 16% in the same periods last year,
respectively.  The increase in New Products
net revenues during the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal
2006 was due primarily to the strong market acceptance of the Virtex-4,
Virtex-II Pro and Spartan-3 families across a broad base of end markets. 
Our 130-nanometer Virtex-II Pro family is currently the largest contributor to
the New Products net revenues.  However, design win momentum is rapidly
shifting to 90-nanometer technology.  Our 90-nanometer products include
our high-volume, low-cost Spartan-3 and Spartan-3E families and our
high-performance, high-density Virtex-4 family. We expect that sales of New
Products will continue to increase as customers continue to adopt these
products and begin moving their programs into volume production.  

Mainstream Products represented 47% and 49%
of total net revenues in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal
2006, respectively, compared to 57% and 59% in the same periods last year,
respectively.  Base Products represented
14% and 15% of total net revenues in the third quarter and the first nine
months of fiscal 2006, respectively, compared to 17% and 18% in the prior year
periods, respectively.  The decreases in
percentages of total net revenues for Mainstream and Base Products during the
third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006 were due to a decline in
sales of our older and more mature products manufactured using 180- nanometer
and older process technologies.  

Support Products represented 6% of total net
revenues in the third quarter as well as the first nine months of fiscal 2006,
compared to 6% and 7% in the prior year periods, respectively.  Support products increased 9% in the third
quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to the same period last year, mostly due to the
growth in sales of serial PROMs.  

Net
Revenues by Geography    

Geographic revenue
information reflects the geographic location of the distributors or OEMs who
purchased our products.  This may differ
from the geographic location of the end customers.  Net revenues by geography for the  

  third quarter and
the first nine months of fiscal 2006 and 2005 were as follows:  

17  

In absolute dollars, net
revenues in North America, Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific/Rest of World
(APAC/ROW) all increased during the third quarter and the first nine months of
fiscal 2006 compared to the same periods last year.  The increases were primarily due to improved
market conditions and market acceptance of our new products.  

Net revenues in North
America grew in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006
driven primarily by strength in Communications and Industrial and Other end
markets.  

Net revenues in Europe
increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006
compared to the same periods last year.  
Similar to North America revenues, Europe has benefited from the recent
strength in the Communications and Industrial and Other end markets.  

Net revenues in Japan
increased during the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006
compared to the same periods a year ago. 
This region has benefited from strength in the Communications end market
as well as from the growing adoption of our programmable logic devices (PLDs)
in various consumer applications that were previously served by application
specific integrated circuits (ASICs).  

Net revenues in APAC/ROW
also increased during the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal
2006 compared to the same periods last year. 
Strength in this region has been driven by an increase in communications
and consumer applications as well as a continued transfer of manufacturing
operations by U.S. OEMs to Asia.  

Net
Revenues by End Markets    

Our end market revenue
data is derived from our understanding of our end customers  primary
markets.  In order to better reflect our
diversification efforts and to provide more detailed end market information, we
split the category formerly called  Consumer, Industrial and Other  into two
components:   Consumer and Automotive 
and  Industrial and Other  beginning with the quarter ended January 1, 2005. We
will begin to show historical comparisons of the two new categories when
information is available for all periods presented (beginning with the quarter
ending September 30, 2006).  

As a result, we classify our
net revenues by end markets into four categories: Communications, Storage and
Servers, Consumer and Automotive, and Industrial and Other.  Since historical comparisons of the two new
categories are not available, we have combined them in the table below to show
their aggregated changes over the comparable periods.  The percentage change calculation in the
table below represents the year-to-year dollar change in each end market.  

Net revenues by end markets
for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006 and 2005 were as follows:  

Net revenues in Communications increased during the third quarter and
the first nine months of fiscal 2006 compared to the same periods last year. The
increases were driven in large part by a rebound in wireless and wired
communications end market.  

As expected, net revenues from the Storage and Servers category
declined during the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006
compared to the same periods a year ago. Storage revenues have been negatively
impacted due to customer programs migrating to lower cost alternatives. However,
these transitions are nearly complete.  

Sales from the Consumer, Automotive, Industrial and Other category
increased during the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006
compared to the same periods a year ago. Sales from Consumer and Automotive
increased during the third quarter, with particular strength from audio, video
and broadcast applications. Within the Industrial and Other category, test and
measurement as well as defense applications were particularly strong in the
third quarter of fiscal 2006. Growth in these end markets during the third
quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2006 was primarily driven by the
success of our diversification efforts into new markets and applications. 
Our  

18  

success in these end markets
is due to many factors, including the enhanced features and low cost of our
newer products, more customized product offerings and certain competitive
advantages of PLDs which can enable shorter product design cycles for our
customers.  

Gross Margin    

The gross margin increase of 1.0 percentage
point for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to the same period last
year was due to yield and cost improvements in 130-nanometer and 90-nanometer
products.  The gross margin decrease of
2.3 percentage points for the nine months ended December 31, 2005 compared to
the same period last year was due to    a
signficant shift in product mix towards 130-nanometer and 90-nanometer
products, which drove a 99% growth in our New Products category, and a decline
in Mainstream and Base Products, which have higher gross margins than New
Products   .  

Gross margin may be adversely affected in the
future due to product mix shifts, competitive pricing pressure, manufacturing
yield issues and wafer pricing.  We
expect to mitigate these risks by continuing to improve yields on new products,
and employing a dual foundry strategy, which promotes price competition and
manufacturing flexibility.  

In order to compete
effectively, we pass manufacturing cost reductions on to our customers in the
form of reduced prices to the extent that we can maintain acceptable
margins.  Price erosion is common in the
semiconductor industry, as advances in both product architecture and
manufacturing process technology permit continual reductions in unit cost.  We have historically been able to offset much
of the revenue decline in our mature products with increased revenues from
newer products.  

Research and Development    

The increase in research and
development (R D) expenses over the same periods last year was primarily
related to additional product development investment required for next
generation products and our increased investments in resources and new markets
such as digital signal processing (DSP) and embedded processing.  

We plan to
continue to invest in R D efforts in a wide variety of areas such as new
products, 65-nanometer and more advanced process development, IP cores, DSP,
embedded processing and the development of new design and layout software.  

Selling, General and
Administrative    

Selling, general and
administrative (SG A) expenses increased for the third quarter of fiscal
2006 compared to the same period last year. 
This increase was attributable to higher commissions due to higher net
revenues and expenses  

19  

related to increased sales
resources. The increase in SG A expenses for the first nine months of
fiscal 2006 compared to the same period last year was due to salary and
headcount increases.  

Amortization
of Acquisition-Related Intangibles    

Amortization
expense was primarily related to the intangible assets acquired from the
RocketChips, Triscend and HDI acquisitions. 
Amortization expense for these intangible assets increased slightly for
the first nine months of fiscal 2006 from the same period last year, due to the
acquisition of HDI in June 2004. 
However, for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, amortization expense
decreased due to the complete amortization of some intangible assets.  We expect amortization of acquisition-related
intangibles to be approximately $6.5 million for fiscal 2006 compared with $6.7
million for fiscal 2005.  The expected
amortization expense for fiscal 2006 will increase slightly due to the
acquisition of AccelChip which was completed on January 13, 2006.  See Note 16 to our condensed consolidated
financial statements included in Part 1.  Financial Information.   

Litigation
Settlements and Contingencies    

The Company has
accrued amounts that represent anticipated payments for liability for legal
contingencies under the provisions of SFAS 5,  Accounting for Contingencies ,
including an increase of $3.2 million     in the second
quarter of fiscal 2006.  See Note 14 to
our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part 1.  Financial
Information  and Item 1.  Legal Proceedings  included in Part II.  Other
Information.   

Write-Off
of Acquired In-Process Research and Development    

In connection with
the acquisition of HDI in the first quarter of fiscal 2005, approximately $7.2
million of in-process research and development costs were written off.  The projects identified as in-process would
have required additional effort in order to establish technological
feasibility.  These projects had
identifiable technological risk factors indicating that successful completion,
although expected, was not assured.  If
an identified project is not successfully completed, there is no alternative
future use for the project; therefore, the expected future income will not be
realized.  The acquired in-process
research and development represented the fair value of technologies in the
development stage that had not yet reached technological feasibility and did
not have alternative future uses.  

To determine the
value of HDI s in-process research and development, the expected future cash
flow attributable to the in-process technology was discounted, taking into
account the percentage of completion, utilization of pre-existing  core 
technology, risks related to the characteristics and applications of the
technology, existing and future markets, and technological risk associated with
completing the development of the technology. 
We expensed these non-recurring charges in the period of acquisition.  The development project was completed during
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 at a cost that approximated the original
estimate.  

Impairment
Loss on Investments    

We recognized an
impairment loss on investments of $3.1 million during the third quarter of
fiscal 2005 related to non-marketable equity securities in private
companies.  The impairment losses
resulted from certain investees diluting Xilinx s investment through the
receipt of an additional round of investment at a lower valuation or from the
liquidation of certain investees.  

Interest Income and Other,
Net    

20  

The increase in interest
income and other, net for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 over the prior year s
comparable period was due to higher yields resulting from an increase in
short-term interest rates that was partially offset by losses from foreign
currency transactions.  For the first
nine months of fiscal 2006, the increase was due to higher yields resulting from
an increase in short-term interest rates and $3.7 million of interest income
earned from an IRS prepayment relating to the U.S. Tax Court decision.  

Provision for Income Taxes    

During the third quarter
of fiscal 2006, the Company s Chief Executive Officer and its Board of
Directors approved a domestic reinvestment plan to repatriate $500.0 million in
earnings of its foreign subsidiaries. 
This repatriation dividend will qualify for the 85% dividends received
deduction provided for under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.  

When compared to the same
period last year, the increase in the effective tax rate for the third quarter
of fiscal 2006 is primarily attributable to the approval of the dividend that
will be repatriated from the Company s foreign subsidiaries prior to the end of
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  This
resulted in the recognition of approximately $25.3 million of federal and state
tax expense (net of federal benefit). 
Additionally, the increased effective tax rate reflects relatively
higher earnings in the U.S. which are generally taxed at higher rates than
income from international operations. 
The negative tax effects are partially offset by approximately $5.9
million in tax benefit related to the recognition of deferred tax assets for
state R D tax credits where the Company has determined that it is more
likely than not that the asset will be realized.  These credits will be utilized, in part, to
offset California tax on the repatriation dividend.  Additionally, the effective tax rate in the
first nine months of fiscal 2006 was positively impacted by the favorable
ruling by the U.S. Tax Court for Xilinx in its litigation with the IRS for fiscal
1996 to 1999 and by an increase in tax credits for R D and affordable
housing.  

The effective tax rate in
the first nine months of fiscal 2005 included the positive effect of agreements
with the IRS for fiscal 1996 to 2001.  In
addition, the Company recorded positive benefits related to R D tax credits
on its fiscal 2004 federal and state income tax returns in excess of its
original estimates.  Favorable benefits
were partially offset by the negative effect of the non-deductibility of the
write-off of acquired in-process R D related to the acquisition of HDI in
June 2004.  

The Company filed
petitions with the U.S. Tax Court in response to assertions by the IRS that the
Company owed additional tax for fiscal 1996 through 2000.  See Note 11 to our condensed consolidated
financial statements included in Part 1.  Financial Information  and Item 1.  Legal
Proceedings  included in Part II.  Other Information.   

Financial Condition,
Liquidity and Capital Resources    

We have historically used a combination of
cash flows from operations and equity and debt financing to support ongoing
business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary
technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common
stock under our stock repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital.  Additionally, our investments in debt
securities and in UMC stock are available for future sale.  The combination of cash, cash equivalents and
short-term and long-term investments at December 31, 2005 totaled $1.7 billion
compared to $1.6 billion at April 2, 2005. 
As of December 31, 2005, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments of $888.3 million and working capital of $1.1 billion.  As of April 2, 2005, cash, cash equivalents
and short-term investments were $861.6 million and working capital was $1.2
billion.  

Operating Activities  
- - During the first nine months of fiscal 2006, our operations generated net
positive cash flow of $405.6 million, which was $163.4 million higher than the
$242.2 million generated during the first nine months of fiscal 2005.  The positive cash flow from operations
generated during the first nine months of fiscal 2006 was primarily from net
income as adjusted for non-cash related items, a decrease in accounts receivable
and increases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.  These items were partially offset by
increases in inventories, prepaid expenses and other current assets and in
other assets.  Our inventory levels were
$26.2 million higher at December 

21  

31, 2005 compared to
April 2, 2005.  The increase was primarily due to increased inventory in
our new products to support the revenue growth. 
Combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution increased to 144 days
at December 31, 2005 from 139 days at April 2, 2005.  The increases in prepaid expenses and other
current assets and in other assets were primarily related to the second $50.0
million advance wafer purchase payment paid in September 2005 and $17.6 million
investments in intellectual property and licenses.  In October 2004, the Company entered into an
advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba) under which the
Company paid Toshiba a total of $100.0 million in installments for advance
payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement.  The entire advance payment of $100.0 million
(or any unused portion thereof) will be reduced by future wafer purchases from
Toshiba and is fully refundable on or about December 2007 if Toshiba is not
able to maintain ongoing production and quality criteria or if future wafer
purchases do not exceed the total amount advanced.  Accounts receivable decreased by $71.2
million from the levels at April 2, 2005, due to strong collections during the
first nine months of fiscal 2006 that were partially offset by increased
shipments.  Days sales outstanding
decreased to 29 days at December 31, 2005 from 50 days at April 2, 2005.  

For the first nine months of fiscal 2005, the
net positive cash flow from operations was primarily from net income, as adjusted
for non-cash related items and a decrease in accounts receivable.  These
items were partially offset by increases in inventories, prepaid expenses and
other current assets and in other assets and a decrease in deferred income on
shipments to distributors.  The increases
in prepaid expenses and other current assets and in other assets were primarily
related to the first $50.0 million advance wafer purchase payment paid to
Toshiba in December 2004.  

Investing Activities    - Net cash
provided by investing activities of $58.8 million during the first nine months
of fiscal 2006 included net proceeds from the sale and maturity of
available-for-sale securities of $127.5 million, which was partially offset by
$44.6 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment and $24.1 million
for other investing activities, primarily related to affordable housing credit
investments.  Net cash used in investing
activities of $95.2 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2005
included net purchases of available-for-sale securities of $33.0 million, $44.0
million for purchases of property, plant and equipment and $18.2 million for
the acquisition of HDI.  

Financing Activities    - Net cash
used in financing activities was $289.9 million in the first nine months of fiscal
2006 and consisted of $276.6 million for the acquisition of treasury stock and
$73.0 million for dividend payments to stockholders, which were partially
offset by $59.7 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under
employee stock plans.  For the comparable
fiscal 2005 period, net cash used in financing activities was $106.9 million
and consisted of $102.2 million for the acquisition of treasury stock and $52.2
million for dividend payments to stockholders. 
These items were partially offset by $47.4 million of proceeds from the
issuance of common stock under employee stock plans.  

Stockholders  equity increased $18.7 million
during the first nine months of fiscal 2006. 
The increase was attributable to the $243.4 million in net income for the
first nine months of fiscal 2006, the issuance of common stock under employee
stock plans of $59.3 million, the related tax benefits associated with stock
option exercises and the employee stock purchase plan of $68.9 million and
noncash compensation expense of $735 thousand. 
The increases were partially offset by the acquisition of treasury stock
of $274.9 million, as adjusted for accrued and unsettled transactions, the
payment of dividends to stockholders of $73.1 million, $2.9 million in
unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities, net of deferred tax
benefits, mainly from our investment in UMC, and the combination of cumulative
translation adjustment and hedging transaction loss totaling $2.7 million.  

Contractual
Obligations   

We lease some of
our facilities and office buildings under operating leases that expire at
various dates through February 2026.  See
Note 12 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part 1.  Financial
Information  for a schedule of our operating lease commitments as of December
31, 2005.  

In November 2005, Xilinx announced a $40.0
million investment in a new building in Singapore, our Asia regional
headquarters.  The project is expected to
be completed in June 2007.  

Due to the nature
of our business, we depend entirely upon subcontractors to manufacture our
silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services.  The lengthy subcontractor lead times require
us to order the materials and services in advance, and we are obligated to pay
for the materials and services when completed. 
As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $84.2 million of
outstanding inventory and other non-cancelable purchase obligations to
subcontractors.  We expect to receive and
pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the
products meet delivery and quality specifications.  As of December 31, 2005, the Company also has  

22  

approximately
$17.8 million of non-cancelable obligations to providers of electronic design
automation software expiring at various dates through July 2008.  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the
Company committed up to $20.0 million to acquire, in the future, rights to
intellectual property.  License payments
will be amortized over the useful life of the intellectual property acquired.  

Off-Balance-Sheet
Arrangements   

As of December 31, 2005,
we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in
Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.  

Summary of
Liquidity and Capital Resources   

On April 20, 2005, our Board
of Directors declared an increase in the dividend rate on our common stock from
$0.05 to $0.07 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2006.  The dividend was paid on June 1, 2005 to stockholders
of record on May 11, 2005.  On July 20
and October 19, 2005, our Board of Directors declared cash dividends of $0.07
per common share for the second and third quarters of fiscal 2006 which were
paid on September 7 and December 1, 2005, respectively, to stockholders of
record on August 17 and November 17, 2005, respectively.  On January 18, 2006, our Board of Directors
declared a cash dividend of $0.07 per common share for the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2006 which is payable on March 1, 2006 to stockholders of record on
February 8, 2006.  For fiscal 2005, the
Board of Directors declared four quarterly common stock dividends of $0.05 per
share each for a total of $0.20 per share for the entire fiscal year.  Our dividend policy could be impacted by, among
other items, our views on potential future capital requirements relating to
research and development, investments and acquisitions, legal risks, stock
repurchase programs and other strategic investments.  

We anticipate that existing
sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to
satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future.  However, the factors affecting future results
discussed below could affect our cash positions adversely.  We will continue to evaluate opportunities
for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, procurement of additional
capital equipment and facilities, development of new products, and potential
acquisitions of technologies or businesses that could complement our business.  

Employee Stock Options   

Our stock option
program is a broad-based, long-term retention program that is intended to
attract and retain talented employees and align stockholder and employee
interests.  All of our employees
participate in the plan.  

Employee and Executive Option Grants 
Year-to-Date as of December 31, 2005 and Full Year Fiscal 2005 and 2004  

Listed officers for fiscal
2006 are those listed in our 2005 proxy statement dated June 1, 2005 (defined
as our Chief Executive Officer and each of the four other most highly
compensated executive officers) and our Chief Financial Officer who joined the
Company on June 27, 2005.  As disclosed
in our fiscal 2005 proxy statement, the Company did not grant any options as
part of its annual focal review process to any of its employees during the
fiscal year ended April 2, 2005.  Options
granted to employees as part of the annual focal review in calendar year 2005
were effective as of July 1, 2005.  

All stock option grants
are made after a review by, and with the approval of, the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors. All members of the Compensation Committee
are independent directors, as defined in the applicable rules for issuers
traded on the NASDAQ National Market. 
See the  Report Of The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
for Fiscal Year 2005  appearing in the Company s 2005 proxy statement dated
June 1, 2005 for further information concerning the policies and procedures of
the Company and the Compensation Committee regarding the use of stock options.  

23  

General
Option Information  

During the first nine months
of fiscal 2006, we granted options to purchase approximately 7.5 million shares
of our common stock to our employees. 
The net options granted after forfeitures represented 1.6% of our total
outstanding shares of approximately 350.0 million as of the beginning of fiscal
2006.  For additional information about
our employee stock option plan activity for fiscal 2003 through 2005, please
refer to the Company s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 2, 2005.  

In-the-Money
and Out-of-the-Money Option Information 
As of December 31, 2005  

(1)              Out-of the-money options are
those options with an exercise price equal to or above the closing price of
$25.21 per share at December 31, 2005.  

As of December 31,
2005, the total outstanding options held by listed officers amounted to 9.5% of
the approximately 62.2 million outstanding options held by all employees.  

Options
Granted to Listed Officers 
Year-to-Date as of December 31, 2005 
Individual Grants  

(1)              Potential realizable value
is based on an assumption that the market price of Xilinx stock appreciates at
annualized rates of 5% and 10% from the date of grant until the end of the
ten-year option term.  

For the first nine
months of fiscal 2006, options granted to the listed officers amounted to 8.4%
of the grants made to all employees. 
Options granted to listed officers as a percentage of the total options
granted to all employees vary from year to year.  For additional information about the
compensation of our executive officers and stock option grants to listed
officers, please refer to our 2005 proxy statement dated June 1, 2005.  

24  

Options
Exercises and Remaining Holdings of Listed Officers 
Year-to-Date as of December 31, 2005 
Individual Grants  

(1)              These amounts represent the
difference between the exercise price and $25.21, the market price of Xilinx
stock at December 31, 2005, for all the in-the-money options held by the listed
officers.  

Information as of December 31, 2005 regarding
equity compensation plans approved and not approved by stockholders is
summarized in the following table (shares in thousands):  

(1)              In November
2000, the Company acquired RocketChips. 
Under the terms of the merger, the Company assumed all of the stock
options previously issued to RocketChips  employees pursuant to four different
stock option plans.  A total of
approximately 807 thousand options were assumed by the Company.  Of this amount, a total of 218 thousand
options, with an average weighted exercise price of $16.88, remained
outstanding as of December 31, 2005. 
These options are excluded from the above table.  

Factors Affecting Future
Results   

The following risk factors and other
information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be carefully
considered.  The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only ones the Company faces.  Additional risks and uncertainties not
presently known to the Company or that the Company s management currently deems
immaterial also may impair its business operations.  If any of the risks described below were to
occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows
could be materially adversely affected.  

The semiconductor industry
is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and
cyclical market patterns which contribute to create factors that may affect our
future operating results including:  

Market Demand   

increased dependence on
turns orders (orders received and shipped within the same fiscal quarter);  

                         limited visibility of demand
for products, especially new products;  

                         reduced capital spending by
our customers;  

                         weaker demand for our
products or those of our customers due to a prolonged period of economic
uncertainty;  

                         excess inventory at Xilinx
and within the supply chain including overbuilding of OEM products;  

25  

additional excess and
obsolete inventories and corresponding write-downs due to a significant
deterioration in demand;  

                         inability to manufacture
sufficient quantities of a given product in a timely manner;  

                         inability to obtain
manufacturing or test and assembly capacity in sufficient volume;  

                         inability to predict the
success of our customers  products in their markets;  

                         an unexpected increase in
demand resulting in longer lead times that causes delays in customer production
schedules;  

                         dependence on the health of
the end markets and customers we serve;  

Competitive Environment   

price and product
competition, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation;  

                         major customers converting
to ASIC or Application Specific Standard Product (ASSP) designs from Xilinx
PLDs;  

                         faster than normal erosion
of average selling prices;  

                         timely introduction of new
products and ability to manufacture in sufficient quantities at introduction;  

Technology   

lower gross margins due to
product mix shifts and reduced manufacturing efficiency;  

                         failure to retain or attract
specialized technical/management personnel;  

                         timely introduction of
advanced manufacturing technologies;  

                         ability to safeguard the
Company s products from competitors by means of patents and other intellectual
property protections;  

                         impact of new technologies
which result in rapid escalation of demand for some products in the face of
equally steep declines in demand for others;  

                         ability to successfully
manage multiple foundry relationships;  

Other   

changes in accounting
pronouncements;  

                         dependence on distributors
to generate sales and process customer orders;  

                         disruption in sales
generation, order processing and logistics if a distributor materially defaults
on a contract;  

                         impact of changes to current
export/import laws and regulations;  

                         volatility of the securities
market, particularly as it relates to the technology sector and our investment
in UMC;  

                         unexpected product quality
issues;  

                         global events impacting the
world economy or specific regions of the world;  

                         parts shortages at our
suppliers;  

                         failure of information
systems impacting financial reporting;  

                         catastrophes that impact the
ability of our supply chain to operate or deliver product; and  

                         higher costs associated with
multiple foundry relationships.  

We attempt to identify
changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the
market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult.  Due to these and other factors, our past
results, including those described in this report, are much less reliable
predictors of the future than with companies in many older, more stable and mature
industries.  Based on the factors noted
herein, we may experience substantial fluctuations in future operating results.  

Our results of operations
are impacted by global economic and political conditions, dependence on new
products, dependence on independent manufacturers and subcontractors,
competition, intellectual property, potential new accounting pronouncements,
Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance and litigation, each of which is
discussed in greater detail below.  

Potential Effect
of Global Economic and Political Conditions   

Sales and operations outside
of the United States subject us to the risks associated with conducting
business in foreign economic and regulatory environments.  Our financial condition and results of
operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in
countries in which we do significant business and by changes in foreign
currency exchange rates affecting those countries.  For example, we have sales and operations in
Asia  

26  

Pacific, Japan and
Europe.  Past economic weakness in these
markets adversely affected revenues, and such conditions may occur in the
future.  Sales to all direct OEMs and
distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. 
While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar
had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our
European and Japanese customers. 
Currency instability may increase credit risks for some of our customers
and may impair our customers  ability to repay existing obligations.  Increased currency volatility could also
positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets
and liabilities.  Any or all of these factors
could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the
future.  

Our financial condition and
results of operations are increasingly dependent on the global economy.  Any instability in worldwide economic
environments occasioned for example, by political instability or terrorist activity
could impact economic activity and could lead to a contraction of capital
spending by our customers.  Additional
risks to us include U.S. military actions, U.S. government spending on military
and defense activities, economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. government,
government regulation of exports, imposition of tariffs and other potential
trade barriers, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some
countries and generally longer receivable collection periods.  Moreover, our financial condition and results
of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic
crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract
manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located.  

Dependence on New
Products   

Our success depends in large
part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer
requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density,
functionality, power consumption and performance.  The success of new product introductions is
dependent upon several factors, including:  

timely completion of new
product designs;  

                         ability to generate new
design wins;  

                         availability of specialized
field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer
adoption of new products;  

                         ability to utilize advanced
manufacturing process technologies to circuit geometries on 90 nanometers and
smaller;  

                         achieving acceptable yields;  

                         ability to obtain adequate
production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly subcontractors;  

                         ability to obtain advanced
packaging;  

                         availability of supporting
software design tools;  

                         utilization of predefined IP
cores of logic;  

                         industry acceptance; and  

                         successful deployment of
electronic systems by our customers.  

Our product development
efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry
acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would
lead to further per unit cost reductions. 
Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the
future, which is normal for our product life cycles.  As a result, we will be increasingly
dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well
as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products.  We rely primarily on obtaining yield
improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing
products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and
other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while
maintaining consistent margins.  To the
extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in
a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market
acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results
of operations could be materially adversely affected.  

Dependence on
Independent Manufacturers and Subcontractors   

During the first
nine months of fiscal 2006, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured in
Taiwan by UMC and in Japan by Toshiba and Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko).  Terms with respect to the volume and timing
of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor
foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these
wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements.  We are dependent on these foundries,
especially UMC, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers.  We rely on UMC to produce wafers with
competitive performance and cost attributes, which include transitioning to
advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes,
producing wafers at acceptable yields, and delivering them in a timely
manner.  We cannot guarantee that the
foundries that supply our wafers will not experience  

27  

manufacturing
problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process
technologies.  In addition, greater
demand for wafers produced by the foundries without an offsetting increase in
foundry capacity, raises the likelihood of potential wafer price increases.  

UMC s foundries in Taiwan
and Toshiba s and Seiko s foundries in Japan as well as many of our operations
in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the
recent past.  Should there be a major
earthquake in our suppliers  or our operating locations in the future, our
operations, including our manufacturing activities, may be disrupted.  This type of disruption could result in our
inability to ship products in a timely manner, thereby materially adversely
affecting our financial condition and results of operations.  Additionally, disruption of operations at
these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as fires
or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of
electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our
products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.  

We are also dependent on
subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, test and shipment
services.  Any prolonged inability to
obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields
or timely delivery, unavailability of or disruption in assembly, test or
shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek
alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material
adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand reducing net sales and
negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations.  

Competition   

Our PLDs compete in the
logic integrated circuit (IC) industry, an industry that is intensely
competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels
of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion.  We expect increased competition from our
primary PLD competitors, Altera Corporation (Altera) and Lattice Semiconductor
Corporation (Lattice), from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the
inception of field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), and from new companies
that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment.  We believe that important competitive factors
in the logic industry include:  

product pricing;  

                         time-to-market;  

                         product performance,
reliability, quality, power consumption and density;  

                         field upgradability;  

                         adaptability of products to
specific applications;  

                         ease of use and
functionality of software design tools;  

                         functionality of predefined
IP cores of logic;  

                         inventory management;  

                         access to leading-edge
process technology;  

                         ability to provide timely
customer service and support and  

                          ability to provide
distinguishing product features such as embedded processing, multi-gigabit
transceivers and digital signal processing.  

Our
strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of
new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost applications as
well as high-performance, high-density applications.  In addition, we anticipate continued price
reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established
products.  However, we may not be
successful in achieving these strategies.  

Other
competitors include manufacturers of:  

high-density programmable
logic products characterized by FPGA-type architectures;  

                         high-volume and low-cost
FPGAs as programmable replacements for standard cell or custom gate array based
ASICs and ASSPs;  

                         ASICs and ASSPs with
incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic;  

                         high-speed, low-density
complex programmable logic devices (CPLDs);  

                         ASIC products including
standard cell, structured ASIC and custom gate array products;  

                         products with embedded
processors;  

                         products with embedded
multi-gigabit transceivers; and  

                         other new or emerging
programmable logic products.  

28  

Several companies
have introduced products that compete with ours.  To the extent that our efforts to compete are
not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be
materially adversely affected.  

The benefits of programmable
logic have attracted a number of competitors to the market segment.  We recognize that different applications
require different programmable technologies, and we are developing
architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer
needs.  Recognizing the increasing
importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software
design tools that support the full range of our IC products.  We believe that automation and ease of design
are significant competitive factors in the PLD market segment.  

In conjunction with Xilinx s settlement of
the patent litigation with Altera in July 2001, both companies entered into a
royalty-free patent cross license agreement for many of each company s patents
through July 2006.  

Intellectual
Property   

We rely upon patent,
copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our
intellectual property.  We cannot provide
assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted
in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged.  From time to time, third parties, including
our competitors, have asserted patent, copyright and other intellectual
property rights to technologies that are important to us.  Third parties may assert infringement claims
against us in the future, assertions by third parties may result in costly
litigation and we may not prevail in such litigation or be able to license any
valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable
terms.  Litigation, regardless of its
outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources.  Any infringement claim or other litigation
against us or by us could materially adversely affect our financial condition
and results of operations.  

Potential Effect of New
Accounting Pronouncements   

There may be potential
new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an impact
on our future financial condition and results of operations.  In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No.
123(R),  Share-Based Payment: An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 123 and 95.   SFAS 123(R) eliminates the ability to account
for share-based compensation transactions using APB 25,  Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees,  and will instead require companies to recognize
compensation expense, using a fair-value based method, for costs related to
share-based payments including stock options and employee stock purchase plans.
The Company will be required to implement the standard no later than the
quarter beginning April 2, 2006.  The
adoption of SFAS 123(R) will have a material adverse impact on our results of
operations.  

See Note 2 to our condensed consolidated
financial statements, included in Part 1.  Financial Information,  for
additional information about new accounting pronouncements.  

Sarbanes-Oxley Section
404 Compliance   

We are now subject to the ongoing internal
control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act).
Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate
effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure.  The identification of material weaknesses in
internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate
accurate financial statements.  Further,
our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain
sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the
increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies.  

Litigation   

See Part II, Item
1.    Legal Proceedings.   

Item 3.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
about Market Risk   

Interest Rate Risk   

Our exposure to interest
rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of
fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.4 billion at
December 31, 2005.  Our primary aim with
our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal
and meeting liquidity needs.  The portfolio
includes tax-advantaged municipal bonds, tax-advantaged auction rate
securities, commercial paper, corporate bonds, government agency bonds and U.S.
Treasury securities.  In accordance with
our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers
and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer.  These  

29  

securities are subject to
interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates
increase.  A hypothetical 10% increase or
decrease in market interest rates compared to interest rates at December 31,
2005 would not materially affect the fair value of our available-for-sale
securities and the impact on our investment portfolio would have been less than
$12.0 million.  

Foreign Currency Exchange
Risk   

Sales to all direct OEMs and
distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars.  

Gains and losses on foreign
currency forward contracts that are designated and effective as hedges of
anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained, are
deferred and included in the basis of the transaction in the same period that
the underlying transaction is settled. 
Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are
recognized in income or expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of
income as they are incurred.  

We will enter into forward
currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses and other
liabilities when deemed appropriate.  As
of December 31, 2005, we had approximately U.S. $27.4 million of outstanding
forward currency exchange contracts against the Euro, approximately U.S. $4.5
million of outstanding forward currency exchange contracts against the Japanese
Yen and approximately U.S. $16.9 million of outstanding forward currency
exchange contracts against the Singapore dollar.  The net unrealized gain or loss which
approximates the fair market value of the above contracts was immaterial at
December 31, 2005.  The contracts expire
at various dates between January 2006 and June 2007.  

Our investments in several
subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  As these foreign currency denominated
investments are translated at each quarter end during consolidation,
fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar
increase or decrease the value of those investments.  These fluctuations are recorded within
stockholders  equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income.  In addition, as our subsidiaries
maintain investments denominated in other than local currencies, exchange rate
fluctuations will occur.  A hypothetical
10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared
to rates at December 31, 2005 would have affected the value of our investments
in foreign currency denominated subsidiaries by less than $12.0 million.  

Equity Security Price Risk   

Our investment in marketable
equity securities at December 31, 2005 consists almost entirely of our
investment in UMC, which consists of shares of common stock, the value of which
is determined by the Taiwan Stock Exchange. 
This value is converted from new Taiwan dollars into U.S. dollars and
included in our determination of the change in the fair value of our investment
in UMC which is accounted for under the provisions of SFAS No. 115.  The market value of our investment in UMC was
approximately $242.4 million at December 31, 2005 as compared to our adjusted
cost basis of approximately $239.0 million. 
The value of our investment in UMC would be materially impacted if there
was a significant change in the market price of the UMC shares.  See Note 6 to our condensed consolidated
financial statements, included in Part 1.  Financial Information,  for
additional information about our UMC investment.  

Item 4.  Controls and Procedures   

We maintain a system of
disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required
to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms.  These controls and procedures are also
designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to the
Company s management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief
Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure.  Internal controls
are procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that: transactions are
properly authorized; assets are safeguarded against unauthorized or improper
use; and transactions are properly recorded and reported, to permit the
preparation of our financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.  

A control system, no
matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not
absolute, assurance that the control system s objectives will be met.  Further, the design of a control system must
reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of
controls must be considered relative to their costs.  Because of the inherent limitations in all
control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that
all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been
detected.  These inherent limitations
include the  

30  

realities that judgments
in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of
simple errors or mistakes.  Controls can
also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of
two or more people, or by management override of the controls.  The design of any system of controls is based
in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and
there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated
goals under all potential future conditions. 
Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with its policies or
procedures.  Because of the inherent
limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or
fraud may occur and not be detected.  We
continuously evaluate our internal controls and make changes to improve them as
necessary.  Our intent is to maintain our
disclosure controls as dynamic systems that change as conditions warrant.  

We evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (Controls Evaluation Date), under the supervision and with the
participation of management, including our CEO and CFO.  In the course of the controls evaluation, we
sought to identify data errors, control problems or acts of fraud, if any, and
confirm that appropriate corrective action, including process improvements were
being undertaken.  Based upon that
evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that, subject to the limitations noted above,
as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report, the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable
assurance that the material information related to the Company is made known to
management and that the Company s financial statements and other disclosures in
our SEC reports are reliable.  

Part II.  Other Information   

Item 1.  Legal Proceedings   

Internal Revenue Service   

The IRS audited and
issued proposed adjustments to the Company for fiscal 1996 through 2001.  The Company filed petitions with the U.S. Tax
Court in response to assertions by the IRS relating to fiscal 1996 through
2000.  In addition, the IRS proposed
adjustments to the Company s net operating loss for fiscal 2001. To date, all
issues have been settled with the IRS except as described in the following
paragraph.  

On August 30, 2005
the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options
must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland.  The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no
amount for stock options is to be included in the cost sharing agreement.   Thus the court determined that the Company
has no tax, interest, or penalties due for this issue.  The IRS has not indicated whether it will
appeal the decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.  

Other than as stated
above, we know of no legal proceedings contemplated by any governmental
authority or agency against the Company.  

Rep tronic   

The Company
allowed sales representative agreements with three related European entities,
Rep tronic S.A., Rep tronic Espa a, and Acsis S.r.l., a Rep tronic Company
(collectively Rep tronic) to expire pursuant to their terms on March 31,
2003.  Rep tronic pursued claims
allegedly arising from the expiration of these contracts against Xilinx Ireland
and Xilinx Sarl in the High Court of Ireland, the Labor Court of Versailles
(France) and the Commercial Court of Versailles (France).  The proceeding in the French Commercial Court
was decided in favor of the Company in June 2005.   In November 2005, the Company settled all
outstanding litigation with Rep tronic. 
The settlement payment was provided for through prior accruals through
the second quarter of fiscal 2006 under SFAS 5,  Accounting for Contingencies .  

Patent Litigation   

On October 17, 2005, a patent
infringement lawsuit was filed by Lizy K. John (John) against Xilinx, Inc. in
the U. S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall
Division.  John seeks an injunction,
unspecified damages and attorneys  fees. 
The Company filed its answer on January 2, 2006, denying John s
allegations and including a counterclaim for declaratory judgment.  John filed her reply on January 20,
2006.  As of December 31, 2005, no trial
date had been set, the initial case management conference had not been scheduled,
and discovery had not commenced.  Neither
the likelihood, nor the amount of any potential exposure to the Company is
estimable at this time.  

31  

Other Matters   

From time to time, we are
involved in various disputes and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary
course of business.  These include
disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and
acquisitions, licensing, contract law, distribution arrangements and employee
relations matters.  Periodically, we
review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial
exposure.  If the potential loss from any
claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and a range of possible losses
can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss.  Legal proceedings are subject to
uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict.  Because of such uncertainties, accruals are
based only on the best information available at the time.  As additional information becomes available,
we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation
and may revise estimates.  

Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of
Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds   

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

The following table
summarizes the Company s repurchase of its common stock during the third fiscal
quarter of 2006.  See Note 7 to our
condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part 1.  Financial
Information  for information regarding our stock repurchase plans.  

During the third quarter
of fiscal 2006, the Company repurchased a total of 5.0 million shares of its
common stock for $125.0 million.  On
April 21, 2005, we announced a repurchase program of up to $350.0 million of
common stock.  Through December 31, 2005,
the Company had repurchased $151.1 million of the $350.0 million of common
stock approved for repurchase under the current program.  This share repurchase program has no stated
expiration date.  

Item 6.  Exhibits   

(a)                      Exhibits   

31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

  31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

  32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

  32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

Items 3, 4 and 5
are not applicable and have been omitted.  

32  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  

XILINX,
  INC.  

Date:  

February 3, 2006  

/s/
  Jon A. Olson  

Jon
  A. Olson  

Vice
  President, Finance and  

Chief
  Financial Officer  

(as
  principal accounting and financial  

officer
  and on behalf of Registrant)  

33  

<EX-31.1>
 2
 a06-4164_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
31.1   

   XILINX,
INC. 
CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO    
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   
  SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    

I, Willem P. Roelandts, President, Chief
Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Xilinx, Inc. (the  Registrant )
certify that:  

1.                                           I have reviewed
this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of the Registrant;  

2.                                           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.                                           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.                                           The Registrant s
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have:  

a.                   Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

b.                  Designed such
internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;  

c.                   Evaluated the
effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

d.                  Disclosed in
this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.                                           The Registrant s
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of Registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):  

a.                   All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

b.                  Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 3, 2006  

/s/ Willem
  P. Roelandts    

Willem P.
  Roelandts  

President, Chief
  Executive Officer and  

Chairman of the
  Board of Directors  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 a06-4164_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2   

XILINX,
INC.   

   CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO   

   18
U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   

   AS
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

   SECTION
302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, Jon A. Olson, Vice President, Finance and
Chief Financial Officer of Xilinx, Inc. (the  Registrant ) certify that:  

1.                                           I have reviewed
this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of the Registrant;  

2.                                           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.                                           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.                                           The Registrant s
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have:  

a.                   Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

b.                  Designed such
internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;  

c.                   Evaluated the
effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

d.                  Disclosed in
this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.                                           The Registrant s
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of Registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):  

a.                   All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

b.                  Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 3, 2006  

/s/
  Jon A. Olson             

Jon
  A. Olson  

Vice
  President, Finance and  

Chief
  Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 a06-4164_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
32.1   

XILINX,
INC.   

   CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO   

   18
U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   

   AS
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

   SECTION
906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the
Quarterly Report of Xilinx, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q for the period
ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Willem P. Roelandts, President, Chief
Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company,
certify, pursuant to Title 18, Chapter 63, Section 1350 of the United States
Code, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
that to the best of my knowledge:  

(1)             The Report
fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)             The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: February 3, 2006  

/s/ Willem P.
  Roelandts   

Willem P.
  Roelandts  

President, Chief
  Executive Officer and  

Chairman of the
  Board of Directors  

A signed original of this written statement
required by Section 906, or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or
otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic
version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to
Xilinx, Inc. and will be retained by Xilinx, Inc. and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 a06-4164_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
32.2   

XILINX,
INC.   

   CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO   

   18
U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   

   AS
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

   SECTION
906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the
Quarterly Report of Xilinx, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q for the period
ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Jon A. Olson, Vice President, Finance and
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to Title 18, Chapter
63, Section 1350 of the United States Code, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge:  

(1)             The Report
fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)             The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: February 3, 2006  

/s/
  Jon A. Olson         

Jon A. Olson  

Vice President,
  Finance and  

Chief Financial
  Officer  

A signed original of this
written statement required by Section 906, or other document authenticating,
acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form
within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section
906, has been provided to Xilinx, Inc. and will be retained by Xilinx, Inc. and
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

