<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060208_10-Q_edgar_data_712515_0000950134-06-002079_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1309945</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>410701</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>61483</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>578151</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>70</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-002079.hdr.sgml : 20060208
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060207190741
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-002079
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060208
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060207

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ELECTRONIC ARTS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000712515
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				942838567
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0331

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-17948
		FILM NUMBER:		06586756

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		209 REDWOOD SHORES PARKWAY
		CITY:			REDWOOD CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94065
		BUSINESS PHONE:		650-628-1500

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		209 REDWOOD SHORES PARKWAY
		CITY:			REDWOOD CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94065

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ELECTRONIC ARTS
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19911211

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 EWvW8YeN0KnEPyaaoS39yoruHjX6+yEajnbLN+Z7E98KVJs37cY2/s/bA/ns5QrD
 oFsWuLbzoojdj5oezM5iYA==

 0000950134-06-002079.txt : 20060208

10-Q
 1
 f16210e10vq.htm
 FORM 10-Q

e10vq 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005 

OR 

For the Transition Period from    to    

Commission File No. 0-17948 

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. 

( Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter )

Delaware 

94-2838567  

(State or other jurisdiction of 

(I.R.S. Employer  

incorporation or organization) 

Identification No.)  

209 Redwood Shores Parkway  

Redwood City, California 

94065  

(Address of principal executive offices) 

(Zip Code)  

(650) 628-1500 

(Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. YES     NO

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerate filer    

Accelerated filer    

Non-accelerated filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act). YES     NO

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common stock, as
of the latest practicable date.

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. 
FORM 10-Q 
FOR THE PERIOD ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 

Table of Contents 

2

Table of Contents   

PART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1. Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  

ELECTRONIC
ARTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

(a)  Derived from audited financial statements. 

3

Table of Contents   

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

4

Table of Contents   

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

5

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Unaudited) 

(1) DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION 

Electronic Arts Inc. develops, markets, publishes and distributes interactive software games that
are playable by consumers on home video game consoles (such as the Sony PlayStation      2,
Microsoft Xbox      and Xbox 360 TM , and Nintendo GameCube TM ), personal
computers, mobile platforms   including hand-held game players (such as the Game Boy     
Advance, Nintendo DS TM  and PlayStation      Portable  PSP TM  ) and
cellular handsets   and online, over the Internet and other proprietary online networks. Some of
our games are based on content that we license from others (e.g., Madden NFL Football, Harry Potter
and FIFA Soccer), and some of our games are based on intellectual property that is wholly-owned by
us (e.g., The Sims TM  and Need for Speed TM ). Our goal is to develop titles
that appeal to the mass markets, which often means translating and localizing them for sale in
non-English speaking countries. In addition, we also attempt to create software game  franchises 
that allow us to publish new titles on a recurring basis that are based on the same property.
Examples of this include our annual iterations of our sports-based franchises (e.g.,
NCAA      Football and FIFA Soccer), titles based on long-lived movie properties (e.g.,
James Bond TM  and Harry Potter) and wholly-owned properties that can be successfully
sequeled (e.g., The Sims and Need for Speed).

The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are unaudited and reflect all adjustments
(consisting only of normal recurring accruals) that, in the opinion of management, are necessary
for a fair presentation of the results for the interim periods presented. The preparation of these
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the amounts reported in these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The results of
operations for the current interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected
for the current year or any other period.

These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June
7, 2005.

On October 18, 2004, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to an aggregate
of $750 million of our common stock. Pursuant to the authorization, we were able to repurchase
shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market or through privately negotiated
transactions over the course of a twelve-month period. Our common stock repurchase program was
completed in September 2005. We repurchased and retired the following (in millions):

(2) FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL QUARTER 

Our fiscal year is reported on a 52/53-week period that, historically, has ended on the final
Saturday of March in each year. Beginning with the current fiscal year ending March 31, 2006, we
will end our fiscal year on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal
years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 contain the following number of weeks:

6

Table of Contents   

Our results of operations for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 contain
the following number of weeks:

For the three months ended June 30, 2005, there was one additional week included in our results of
operations as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2004.

For simplicity of presentation, all fiscal periods are treated as ending on a calendar month end.

(3) EMPLOYEE STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 

We account for stock-based awards to employees using the intrinsic value method in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion ( APB ) No. 25,
  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  . We
have adopted the disclosure-only provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
No. 123,   Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  , as amended.

Had compensation cost for our stock-based compensation plans been measured based on the estimated
fair value at the grant dates in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123, as amended, we
estimate that our reported net income and net income per share would have been the pro forma
amounts indicated below. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following weighted-average assumptions were used
for grants made under our stock-based compensation plan during the three and nine months ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004:

Our calculations are based on a multiple option valuation approach and forfeitures are recognized
when they occur.

7

Table of Contents   

At our Annual Meeting of Stockholders, held on July 28, 2005, our stockholders approved an
amendment to our 2000 Equity Incentive Plan to (a) increase the number of shares authorized by 10
million, (b) authorize the issuance of awards of stock appreciation rights, (c) increase by 1
million shares the limit on the total number of shares underlying awards of restricted stock and
restricted stock units that may be granted under the Equity Plan   from 3 million to 4 million
shares, (d) modify the payment alternatives under the Equity Plan, (e) add flexibility to grant
performance-based stock options and stock appreciation rights and modify the permissible
performance factors currently contained in the Equity Plan, and (f) revise the share-counting
methodology used in the Equity Plan. Our stockholders also approved an amendment the 2000 Employee
Stock Purchase Plan ( the  ESPP ) to increase by 1,500,000 the number of shares of common stock
reserved for issuance under the ESPP.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 123 (revised
2004) ( SFAS No. 123R ),   Share-Based
Payment  . SFAS No. 123R requires that the cost resulting from
all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements using a
fair-value-based method. The statement replaces SFAS No. 123,   Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation  , supersedes APB No. 25,
  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  , and amends SFAS
No. 95,   Statement of Cash Flows  . While the fair value method under SFAS No. 123R is similar to
the fair value method under SFAS No. 123 with regards to measurement and recognition of stock-based
compensation, we are currently evaluating the impact of several of the key differences between the
two standards on our consolidated financial statements. For example, SFAS No. 123 permits us to
recognize forfeitures as they occur while SFAS No. 123R will require us to estimate future
forfeitures and adjust our estimate on a quarterly basis. SFAS No. 123R will also require a
classification change in the statement of cash flows, whereby a portion of the income tax benefit
from stock options will move from operating cash flow activities to financing cash flow activities
(total cash flows will remain unchanged).

In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) released Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 107,   Share-Based Payment  , which provides the views of the staff regarding the interaction
between SFAS No. 123R and certain SEC rules and regulations for public companies. In April 2005,
the SEC adopted a rule that amends the compliance dates of SFAS No. 123R. Under the revised
compliance dates, we will be required to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 123R no later than our
first quarter of fiscal 2007. While we continue to evaluate the impact of SFAS No. 123R on our
consolidated financial statements, we currently believe that the expensing of stock-based
compensation will have an impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations similar to
our pro forma disclosure under SFAS No. 123, as amended.

In October 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) Financial Accounting Standard ( FAS )
No. 123(R)-2,   Practical Accommodation to the Application of Grant Date As Defined in FASB
Statement No. 123(R)  . The FASB provides companies with a  practical accommodation  when
determining the grant date of an award subject to SFAS 123R. If (1) the award is a unilateral
grant, that is, the recipient does not have the ability to negotiate the key terms and conditions
of the award with the employer, (2) the key terms and conditions of the award are expected to be
communicated to an individual recipient

8

Table of Contents   

within a relatively short time period, and (3) as long as
all other criteria in the grant date definition have been met, then a mutual understanding of the
key terms and conditions of an award is presumed to exist at the date the award is approved.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 123(R)-3,   Transition Election Related to Accounting
for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards  . The FASB allows for a practical exception in
calculating the additional paid-in capital pool of excess tax benefits upon adoption that is
available to absorb tax deficiencies recognized subsequent to adoption SFAS No. 123R. Accordingly,
we may adopt either the method prescribed under SFAS No. 123R or the one prescribed under FSP FAS
No. 123(R)-3. We have not yet determined which method to adopt.

(4) GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET 

Goodwill information is as follows (in millions):

Finite-lived intangibles consist of the following (in millions):

Amortization of intangibles for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 was $3 million
(of which $2 million was recognized as cost of goods sold) and $8 million (of which $5 million was
recognized as cost of goods sold), respectively. Amortization of intangibles for the three and nine
months ended December 31, 2004 was $2 million (of which $1 million was recognized as cost of goods
sold) and $3 million (of which $1 million was recognized as cost of goods sold), respectively.
Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the lesser of
their estimated useful lives or the agreement terms, typically from two to twelve years. As of
December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005, the weighted-average remaining useful life for finite-lived
intangible assets was approximately 3.8 years and 4.3 years, respectively.

9

Table of Contents   

As of December 31, 2005, future amortization of finite-lived intangibles that will be recorded in
cost of goods sold and operating expenses is estimated as follows (in millions):

(5) RESTRUCTURING AND ASSET IMPAIRMENT CHARGES 

The following table summarizes the restructuring activity related to our international publishing
reorganization and our fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 restructurings:

International Publishing Reorganization 

In connection with our intention to establish an international publishing headquarters in Geneva,
Switzerland, during the next nine months, we expect to open a new facility in Geneva, relocate
certain current employees to Geneva, hire new employees in Geneva, close certain facilities in the
UK, and make other related changes in our international publishing business. We intend to treat
certain costs that are directly associated with our international publishing reorganization as
 restructuring costs  (as defined by SFAS No. 146,   Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities  ). Other costs that are not properly categorized as restructuring costs will
generally be treated as normal operating expenses in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Operations. In accordance with SFAS No. 146, we will generally expense the restructuring costs as
they are incurred and accrue costs associated with certain facility closures at the time we exit
the facility.

We expect to incur between $55 million and $65 million in total restructuring costs, substantially
all of which will result in cash expenditures. These restructuring costs will consist primarily of
employee-related relocation assistance (approximately $43 million), facility exit costs
(approximately $10 million), as well as other reorganization
costs (approximately
$8 million). While we may incur severance costs paid to terminating employees in connection with the
reorganization, we do not expect these costs to be significant.

Approximately $15 million of these charges will be incurred during fiscal 2006, of which $7 million
for the closure of certain UK facilities and $1 million in other costs in connection with our
international publishing reorganization were incurred during the three months ended
December 31, 2005 and included in restructuring charges in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Operations. The restructuring accrual of $7 million as of
December 31, 2005 is expected to be utilized by March 2017. This accrual is included in other accrued expenses presented in Note 7 of the Notes to
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

10

Table of Contents   

Fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 Restructurings 

In fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, we entered into various restructurings based on management
decisions. As of December 31, 2005, an aggregate of $27 million in cash had been paid out under the
restructuring plans. In addition, we have made subsequent net adjustments of approximately $1
million during the three months ended December 31, 2005 relating to projected future cash outlays
under the fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 restructuring plans. The remaining projected net cash outlay
of $7 million is expected to be utilized by January 2009. The facilities-related accrued obligation
shown above is net of $9 million of estimated future sub-lease income. The restructuring accrual is
included in other accrued expenses presented in Note 7 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements.

(6) ROYALTIES AND LICENSES 

Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software
developers and (3) co-publishing and/or distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of
payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other
organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content
and/or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are
payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and
distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for delivery of product.

Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in
advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid.
These royalty-based obligations are expensed to cost of goods sold at the greater of the
contractual or effective royalty rate based on expected net product sales. Prepayments made to
thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing affiliates are generally made
in connection with the development of a particular product and, therefore, we are generally subject
to development risk prior to the general release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due
prior to completion of a product are generally expensed as research and development as the services
are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty-based in nature) are
generally expensed as cost of goods sold at the higher of the contractual or effective royalty rate
based on expected net product sales.

Minimum guaranteed royalty obligations are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the
contractual amount when payment is not contingent upon performance by the licensor. When payment is
contingent upon performance by the licensor, we record royalty payments as an asset when actually
paid and as a liability when incurred rather than upon execution of the contract. Minimum royalty
payment obligations are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are
contractually due within the next twelve months. As of December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005,
approximately $34 million and $51 million, respectively, of minimum guaranteed current and
long-term royalty obligations had been recognized and are included in the royalty-related asset and
accrual tables below.

Each quarter, we also evaluate the future realization of our royalty-based assets as well as any
unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized
through product sales. Any impairments determined before the launch of a product are charged to
research and development expense. Impairments determined post-launch are charged to cost of goods
sold. In either case, we rely on estimated revenue to evaluate the future realization of prepaid
royalties and commitments. If actual sales or revised revenue estimates fall below the initial
revenue estimates, then the actual charge taken may be greater in any given quarter than
anticipated. We had no impairments during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005.
Impairments for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2004 were $1 million and $3 million,
respectively.

The current and long-term portions of prepaid royalties and minimum guaranteed royalty-related
assets, included in other current assets and other assets, consisted of (in millions):

11

Table of Contents   

At any given time, depending on the timing of our payments to our co-publishing and/or distribution
affiliates, content licensors and/or independent software developers, we recognize unpaid royalty
amounts due to these parties as either accounts payable or accrued liabilities. The current and
long-term portions of accrued royalties, included in accrued and other liabilities as well as other
liabilities, consisted of (in millions):

In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $1,429 million that we were committed to
pay co-publishing and/or distribution affiliates and content licensors but that were generally
contingent upon performance by the counterparty (i.e., delivery of the product or content or other
factors) and were therefore not recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. See
Note 8 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

(7) BALANCE SHEET DETAILS 

Inventories  
Inventories as of December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005 consisted of (in millions):

Property and Equipment, Net  
Property and equipment, net, as of December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005 consisted of (in millions):

Depreciation expense associated with property and equipment amounted to $20 million and $60 million
for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005, respectively. Depreciation expense
associated with property and equipment amounted to $18 million and $50 million for the three and
nine months ended December 31, 2004, respectively.

12

Table of Contents   

Accrued and Other Liabilities 

Accrued and other liabilities as of December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005 consisted of (in
millions):

Income taxes 

Change in Effective Income Tax Rate  

During the three months ended December 31, 2005, we adjusted our projected annual effective income
tax rate from our previous projection of 28 percent to 29 percent (in each case, excluding discrete
adjustments). As a result, we recognized $4 million (or $0.01 per basic and diluted share) more
income tax expense for both the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 than we would have
recognized had this projected annual effective income tax rate remained at 28 percent.

During the nine months ended December 31, 2005, our effective income tax rate was 27 percent. This
rate included various adjustments recorded in the three months ended September 30, 2005 for the
resolution of certain tax-related matters with foreign tax authorities, offset by additional income
tax provisions resulting from certain intercompany transactions during the three months ended
September 30, 2005. The net impact of these adjustments was that we recognized $9 million (or $0.03
per basic and diluted share) less income tax expense for the nine months ended December 31, 2005
than we would have recognized had our projected annual effective income tax rate remained at 29
percent.

During the three months ended December 31, 2004, our effective income tax rate was 31 percent. This
differed from our previously projected annual effective income tax rate of 29 percent for fiscal
2005 due to an adjustment recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2004 related to certain
tax audit developments and tax charges related to the Criterion acquisition. As a result, we
recognized $10 million (or $0.03 per basic and diluted share) more income tax expense during the
three months ended December 31, 2004 than we would have recognized had our projected effective
income tax rate remained at 29 percent.

(8) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

Lease Commitments and Residual Value Guarantees  

We lease certain of our current facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease
agreements. We are required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for
certain of our facilities and will be required to pay any increases over the base year of these
expenses on the remainder of our facilities.

In February 1995, we entered into a build-to-suit lease with a third party for our headquarters
facility in Redwood City, California, which was refinanced with Keybank National Association in
July 2001 and expires in July 2006. We accounted for this arrangement as an operating lease in
accordance with SFAS No. 13,   Accounting for Leases  , as amended. Existing campus facilities
developed in phase one comprise a total of 350,000 square feet and provide space for sales,
marketing, administration and research and development functions. We have an option to purchase the
property (land and facilities) for a maximum of $145 million or, at the end of the lease, to
arrange for (i) an extension of the lease or (ii) sale of the property to a third party while we
retain an obligation to the owner for approximately 90 percent of the difference between the sale
price and the guaranteed residual value of up to $129 million if the sales price is less than this
amount, subject to certain provisions of the lease.

In December 2000, we entered into a second build-to-suit lease with Keybank National Association
for a five and one-half year term beginning December 2000 to expand our Redwood City, California
headquarters facilities and develop adjacent property adding approximately 310,000 square feet to
our campus. Construction was completed in June 2002. We accounted for this

13

Table of Contents   

arrangement as an operating lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, as amended. The facilities provide space for sales,
marketing, administration and research and development functions. We have an option to purchase the
property for a maximum of $130 million or, at the end of the lease, to arrange for (i) an extension
of the lease or (ii) sale of the property to a third party while we retain an obligation to the
owner for approximately 90 percent of the difference between the sale price and the guaranteed
residual value of up to $119 million if the sales price is less than this amount, subject to
certain provisions of the lease.

We believe the estimated fair values of both properties under these operating leases are in excess
of their respective guaranteed residual values as of December 31, 2005.

For the two lease agreements with Keybank National Association, as described above, the lease rates
are based upon the LIBOR plus a margin and require us to maintain certain financial covenants as
shown below, all of which we were in compliance with as of December 31, 2005.

Letters of Credit  

In July 2002, we provided an irrevocable standby letter of credit to Nintendo of Europe. The
standby letter of credit guarantees performance of our obligations to pay Nintendo of Europe for
trade payables. The original letter of credit guaranteed our trade payable obligations to Nintendo
of Europe of up to    18 million. In April 2005, we reduced the guarantee to    8 million and in
September 2005 we increased the guarantee to    15 million. This standby letter of credit expired in
July 2005 and was renewed through July 2006. As of December 31, 2005, we had    2 million payable to
Nintendo of Europe covered by this standby letter of credit.

In August 2003, we provided an irrevocable standby letter of credit to 300 California Associates
II, LLC in replacement of our security deposit for office space. The standby letter of credit
guarantees performance of our obligations to pay our lease commitment up to approximately $1
million. The standby letter of credit expires in December 2006. As of December 31, 2005, we did not
have a payable balance covered by this standby letter of credit.

Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Commitments  

The products produced by our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists,
software programmers and by non-employee software developers ( independent artists  or  third-party
developers ). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third-party
developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the
completion of specified development milestones.

Contractually, these payments are considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of
the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent
artists and third-party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content
license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that are not
dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include:
FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation and UEFA (professional soccer); NASCAR (stock car racing); National
Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR (professional golf); Tiger Woods
(professional golf); National Hockey League and NHLPA (professional hockey); Warner Bros. (Harry
Potter, Batman and Superman); MGM (James Bond); New Line Productions (The Lord of the Rings); Saul
Zaentz Company (The Lord of the Rings); Marvel Enterprises (fighting); John Madden (professional
football); National Football League Properties, Arena Football League and PLAYERS Inc.
(professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football, basketball and
baseball); ISC (stock car racing); Simcoh (Def Jam); Viacom Consumer

14

Table of Contents   

Products (The Godfather); Valve Corporation (Half-Life and Counter-Strike); ESPN (content in EA
SPORTS TM  games); and Twentieth Century Fox Licensing and Merchandising (The Simpsons).
These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (i) the cash payments due
under non-royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements and (ii) the minimum payments and
advances against royalties due under royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority
of which are conditional upon performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and
any related marketing commitments are included in the table below.

The following table summarizes our minimum contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of
December 31, 2005, and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future
periods (in millions):

(1)   
       
     Developer/licensor commitments include $34 million of commitments to
developers or licensors that have been recorded in current and long-term liabilities and a
corresponding amount in current and long-term assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance
Sheets as of December 31, 2005 because the developer or licensor does not have any performance
obligations to us. 

The lease commitments disclosed above include contractual rental commitments of $23 million under
real estate leases for unutilized office space due to our restructuring activities. These amounts,
net of estimated future sub-lease income, were expensed in the periods of the related restructuring
and are included in our accrued and other liabilities reported on our Condensed Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005. See Note 5 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements.

The
commitments disclosed above do not include our JAMDAT acquisition commitment. See below.

Acquisition of JAMDAT  

In December 2005, we entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire JAMDAT Mobile Inc., a
global publisher of wireless games and other wireless entertainment applications. We will pay $27 per share in cash in exchange for each share of JAMDAT common stock
and assume outstanding stock options for a total purchase price of approximately $680 million, plus
transaction costs. This acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval
by JAMDAT s stockholders and regulatory approvals, and is expected to close during our fourth
quarter of fiscal 2006.

Litigation  

On July 29, 2004, a class action lawsuit,  Kirschenbaum v. Electronic Arts Inc. , was filed against
us in Superior Court in San Mateo, California, alleging that we improperly classified  Image
Production Employees  in California as exempt employees. On October 17, 2005, the court granted
its preliminary approval of a settlement pursuant to which we agreed to make a lump sum payment of
$15.6 million, which we paid to a third-party administrator during the three months ended December
31, 2005, to cover (a) all claims allegedly suffered by the class members, (b) plaintiffs 
attorneys  fees, not to exceed 25% of the total settlement amount, (c) plaintiffs  costs and
expenses, (d) any incentive payments to the named plaintiffs that may be authorized by the court,
and (e) all costs of administration of the settlement. On January 27, 2006, the court granted its
final approval of the settlement.

15

Table of Contents   

On February 14, 2005, a second employment-related class action lawsuit,  Hasty v. Electronic Arts
Inc.,  was filed against us in Superior Court in San Mateo, California. The complaint alleges that
we improperly classified  Engineers  in California as exempt employees and seeks injunctive relief,
unspecified monetary damages, interest and attorneys  fees. On or about March 16, 2005, we received
a first amended complaint, which contains the same material allegations as the original complaint.
We answered the first amended complaint on April 20, 2005.

On March 24, 2005, a class action lawsuit was filed against us and certain of our officers and
directors. The complaint, which asserts claims under Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 based on allegedly false and misleading statements, was filed in the United
States District Court, Northern District of California, by an individual purporting to represent a
class of purchasers of EA common stock. Additional class action lawsuits were filed in the same
court by other individuals asserting the same claims against us. On May 9, 2005, the court
consolidated the complaints, and on January 26, 2006, the court dismissed the consolidated
complaint with prejudice. Separately, there are two shareholder derivative actions pending in the
Superior Court, San Mateo County, and one shareholder derivative action pending in the United
States District Court, Northern District of California, all of which assert claims based on
substantially the same factual allegations as set forth in the federal securities class action. We
have not yet responded to any of the derivative action complaints.

In addition, we are subject to other claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of
business. Our management considers that any liability from any reasonably foreseeable disposition
of such other claims and litigation, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.

Director Indemnity Agreements  

We have entered into indemnification agreements with the members of our Board of Directors at the
time they join the Board to indemnify them to the extent permitted by law against any and all
liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the directors as a
result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the
directors are sued as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors.

(9) COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

SFAS
No. 130,   Reporting Comprehensive Income  , requires classifying items of other comprehensive
income (loss) by their nature in a financial statement and displaying the accumulated balance of
other comprehensive income (loss) separately from retained earnings and additional paid-in capital
in the equity section of a balance sheet. Accumulated other comprehensive income primarily includes
foreign currency translation adjustments, and the net-of-tax amounts for unrealized gains (losses)
on investments and unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges.

16

Table of Contents   

The components of comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and
2004 are summarized as follows (in millions):

The foreign currency translation adjustments are not adjusted for income taxes as they relate to
indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries.

(10) NET INCOME PER SHARE 

The following table summarizes the computations of basic earnings per share ( Basic EPS ) and
diluted earnings per share ( Diluted EPS ). Basic EPS is computed as net income divided by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the
potential dilution that could occur from common shares issuable through stock-based compensation
plans including stock options, restricted stock unit awards, warrants and other convertible
securities using the treasury stock method.

Excluded from the above computation of weighted-average common stock for Diluted EPS for the three
and nine months ended December 31, 2005 were options to purchase 8 million and 7 million shares of
common stock, respectively, as the options 

17

Table of Contents   

exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common shares. The weighted-average
exercise price of these options was $62.88 and $63.68 per share, respectively.

Excluded from the above computation of weighted-average common stock for Diluted EPS for the three
and nine months ended December 31, 2004 were options to purchase 1 million shares of common stock
in each period, as the options  exercise price was greater than the average market price of the
common shares for each period. The weighted-average exercise price of these options was $51.05 and
$52.18 per share, respectively.

(11) SEGMENT INFORMATION 

SFAS
No. 131,   Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise
and Related Information  , establishes
standards for the reporting by public business enterprises of information about product lines,
geographic areas and major customers. The method for determining what information to report is
based on the way that management organizes our operating segments for making operational decisions
and assessments of financial performance.

Our chief operating decision maker is considered to be our Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ). The CEO
reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis accompanied by disaggregated
information about revenue by geographic region and by product line for purposes of making operating
decisions and assessing financial performance. Our view and reporting of business segments may
change due to changes in the underlying business facts and circumstances and the evolution of our
reporting to our CEO.

Information about our total net revenue by product line for the three and nine months ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 is presented below (in millions):

18

Table of Contents   

Information about our operations in North America, Europe and Asia as of and for the three and nine
months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 is presented below (in millions):

Our direct sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. represented approximately 12 and 13 percent of total net
revenue for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005, respectively, and approximately 13
and 14 percent of total net revenue for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2004,
respectively. Our direct sales to GameStop Corp. represented approximately 11 percent of total net
revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2005.

(12) IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

In March 2004, the FASB ratified the measurement and recognition guidance and certain disclosure
requirements for impaired securities as described in Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Issue No.
03-1,   The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its
Application to Certain Investments  .
In June 2005, the FASB directed its staff to issue proposed FSP EITF
03-1-a,   Implementation Guidance for the Application of Paragraph 16 of EITF Issue No. 03-1 ,  as
final. The FASB retitled this FSP as FSP FAS 115-1,   The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment
and Its Application to Certain Investments  . The final FSP supersedes EITF Issue No. 03-1 and EITF
Topic D-44,   Recognition of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment upon the Planned Sale of a Security
Whose Cost Exceeds Fair Value  . The final FSP replaces the guidance set forth in paragraphs 10
through 18 of EITF Issue No. 03-1 with references to existing other-than-temporary

19

Table of Contents   

impairment guidance. In September 2005, the FASB decided to retain the paragraph in the proposed
FSP on how to account for debt securities subsequent to an other-than-temporary impairment. The
FASB also decided to add a footnote to clarify that the proposed FSP does not address when a holder
of a debt security would place a debt security on nonaccrual status or how to subsequently report
income on a nonaccrual debt security. The FASB decided that transition would be applied
prospectively and the effective date would be reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005.
In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115-1. We believe the adoption of the measurement and
recognition guidance in FSP FAS 115-1 will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial
statements.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,   Inventory Costs   an amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4  . SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin ( ARB ) No. 43,
Chapter 4,   Inventory Pricing  , to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility
expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage) and requires that those items be
recognized as current-period charges. SFAS No. 151 also requires that allocation of fixed
production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production
facilities. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning
after June 15, 2005. We believe the adoption of SFAS No. 151 will not have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,   Accounting Changes and Error Corrections A Replacement
of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3  . SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the
accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. Under previous guidance, changes in
accounting principle were recognized as a cumulative affect in the net income of the period of the
change. The new statement requires retrospective application of changes in accounting principle,
limited to the direct effects of the change, to prior periods  financial statements, unless it is
impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the
change. Additionally, this Statement requires that a change in depreciation, amortization or
depletion method for long-lived, nonfinancial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting
estimate affected by a change in accounting principle and that correction of errors in previously
issued financial statements should be termed a  restatement . SFAS No. 154 is effective for
accounting changes and correction of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005.
We do not believe that, upon adoption, SFAS No. 154 will have a material impact on our consolidated
financial statements, however, after adoption, if a change in accounting principle is made, SFAS
No. 154 could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In October 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 13-1,   Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred during a
Construction Period  , which provides that rental costs associated with ground or building operating
leases that are incurred during a construction period shall be recognized as rental expense. FSP
FAS No. 13-1 is required to be applied to the first reporting period beginning after December 15,
2005. We do not believe the adoption of FSP FAS No. 13-1 will have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements.

20

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Electronic Arts Inc.:

We have reviewed the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of Electronic Arts Inc. and
subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2005, the related condensed consolidated statements
of operations for the three-month and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2005 and December 25,
2004, and the related condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the nine-month periods
ended December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004.    These condensed consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management.

We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying
analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting
matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which
is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly,
we do not express such an opinion.

Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the
condensed consolidated financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.

We have previously audited in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of Electronic Arts Inc. and subsidiaries as
of March 26, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity and
comprehensive income, and cash flows for the year then ended (not presented herein); and in our
report dated June 3, 2005, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated
balance sheet as of March 26, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the
consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived.

KPMG LLP  
Mountain View, California 
February 7, 2006

21

Table of Contents   

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

This Quarterly Report on   Form 10-Q   contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of
historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results of operations
or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on   Form 10-Q   are forward looking. We use
words such as  anticipate ,  believe ,  expect ,  intend  (and the negative of any of these terms),
 future  and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These
forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect management s
current expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict.
Our actual results could differ materially. We will not necessarily update information if any
forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may affect
our future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report below under the
heading  Risk Factors , as well as in our Annual Report on   Form 10-K   for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) on June 7, 2005 and in
other documents we have filed with the SEC. 

OVERVIEW  

The following overview is a top-level discussion of our operating results as well as some of the
trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these
trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the three and nine months
ended December 31, 2005, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be
exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided
elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including in the remainder of  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations ,  Risk Factors  or the Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements and related notes. Additional information can be found within the  Business 
section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 as filed with
the SEC on June 7, 2005 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC.

About Electronic Arts 

We develop, market, publish and distribute interactive software games that are playable by
consumers on home video game consoles (such as the Sony PlayStation      2, Microsoft
Xbox      and Xbox 360 TM  , and Nintendo GameCube TM  consoles), personal
computers, mobile platforms   including hand-held game players (such as the Game Boy     
Advance, Nintendo DS TM  and PlayStation      Portable  PSP TM  ) and
cellular handsets   and online, over the Internet and other proprietary online networks. Some of
our games are based on content that we license from others (e.g., Madden NFL Football, Harry Potter
and FIFA Soccer), and some of our games are based on our own wholly-owned intellectual property
(e.g., The Sims TM  and Need for Speed TM ). Our goal is to develop titles which
appeal to the mass markets, which often means translating and localizing them for sale in
non-English speaking countries. In addition, we also attempt to create software game  franchises 
that allow us to publish new titles on a recurring basis that are based on the same property.
Examples of this are the annual iterations of our sports-based franchises (e.g., NCAA     
Football and FIFA Soccer), titles based on long-lived movie properties (e.g., James
Bond TM  and Harry Potter) and wholly-owned properties that can be successfully sequeled
(e.g., The Sims and Need for Speed).

Overview of Financial Results 

Total net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2005 was $1,270 million, down 11 percent
as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2004. Net revenue for the three months ended
December 31, 2005 was driven by sales of  Need for Speed 
Most Wanted, FIFA 06, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire , the
Sims  2  and  Madden NFL 06 , each selling over
two million copies in the quarter.  NBA Live 06, SSX  On
Tour, Tiger PGA Tour  06, From Russia with Love   and
 Battlefield 2: Modern Combat   also had strong sales, each
selling over one million copies in the quarter.

Net income for the three months ended December 31, 2005 was $259 million as compared to $375
million for the three months ended December 31, 2004. Diluted net income per share for the three
months ended December 31, 2005 was $0.83 as compared to $1.18 for the three months ended December
31, 2004.

We generated $259 million in cash from operating activities during the nine months ended December
31, 2005 as compared to generating $160 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2004. The
increase in cash generated from operating activities was primarily due to a higher percentage of
net revenue recognized in the first two months of our third quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared to
the third quarter of fiscal 2005, which allowed us to collect a higher percentage of our net
revenue during the quarter.

22

Table of Contents   

Management s Overview of Historical and Prospective Business Trends 

Transition to Next-Generation Consoles.  Our industry is cyclical and has entered into a transition
stage heading into the next cycle. In November 2005, Microsoft launched the Xbox 360, and over the
course of the next twelve months, we expect Sony and Nintendo to introduce new video game consoles,
as well. During this transition, we intend to continue developing new titles for the current
generation of video game consoles while we also continue to make significant investments in the
development of products that operate on the next-generation consoles. We have incurred, and expect
to continue to incur, higher costs during this transition to next-generation consoles. Moreover, we
expect development costs for next-generation video games to be greater on a per-title basis than
development costs for current-generation video games. We also expect that, as the current
generation of consoles reach the end of their cycle and next-generation consoles are introduced
into the market, sales of video games for current-generation consoles will continue to decline as
consumers replace their current-generation consoles with next-generation consoles, or defer game
software purchases until they are able to purchase a next-generation platform. We also expect our
operating expenses to increase for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006 as compared to prior
fiscal years, primarily as a result of the transition. In addition, we expect our net revenue,
gross profit and net income to decrease in our fiscal year ending March 31, 2006 as compared to the
prior fiscal year. Throughout the remainder of this transition, we expect our operating results to
continue to be volatile and difficult to predict, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate
significantly.

Expansion of Mobile Platforms . The introduction of the PSP and Nintendo DS has resulted in
increased sales of titles for mobile platforms. During the three months ended December 31, 2005,
our net revenue from sales of our titles for mobile platforms increased to $192 million from $55
million for the three months ended December 31, 2004. Similarly, during the nine months ended
December 31, 2005, our net revenue from sales of our titles for mobile platforms increased to $305
million from $83 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2004. As the mobile platform
installed base continues to grow, we expect that sales of our titles for these platforms may become
an increasingly important part of our business, particularly during the transition from
current-generation to next-generation consoles.

Increasing Cost of Titles.  Titles have become increasingly expensive to produce and market as the
platforms on which they are played continue to advance technologically and consumers demand
continual improvements in the overall gameplay experience. We expect this trend to continue
throughout the transition from current-generation to next-generation consoles as (1) we become more
familiar with, and gain expertise in, developing titles for next-generation consoles, (2) we
require larger production teams to create our titles, (3) the technology needed to develop titles
becomes more complex, (4) the number and nature of the platforms for which we develop titles
increases and becomes more diverse, (5) the cost of licensing the third-party intellectual property
we use in many of our titles increases, and (6) we develop new methods to distribute our content
via the Internet and on hand-held and wireless devices.

Software Prices.  We expect the average prices of our titles for current-generation consoles to
continue to decline as (1) more value-oriented consumers purchase current-generation consoles, (2)
a greater number of competitive titles are published, and (3) consumers defer purchases in
anticipation of next-generation consoles. As a result, we expect our gross margins to be negatively
impacted.

Sales of  Hit  Titles.  Sales of  hit  titles, several of which were top sellers across a number of
international markets, contributed significantly to our net revenue. Our top-selling titles across
all platforms worldwide during the three months ended December 31, 2005 were  Need for Speed Most
Wanted ,  FIFA 06 ,  Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire ,  The Sims 2  and  Madden NFL 06.  Hit titles are
important to our financial performance because they benefit from overall economies of scale. We
have developed, and it is our objective to continue to develop, many of our hit titles to become
franchise titles that can be regularly iterated.

International Operations and Sales and Foreign Exchange Impact.  Net revenue from international
sales accounted for approximately 46 percent of our total net revenue during the first nine months
of fiscal 2006 and approximately 47 percent of our total net revenue during the first nine months
of fiscal 2005. Our international net revenue was primarily driven by sales in Europe and, to a
lesser extent, in Asia. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact on our net revenue of $12
million, or less than 1 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the
nine months ended December 31, 2004. Foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact on our net
revenue of $21 million, or 1 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2005 as compared to
the three months ended December 31, 2004. We expect foreign currency movements to negatively impact
our revenue for the remaining three months of fiscal 2006. We anticipate that international net
revenue will increase as a percentage of net revenue during the remainder of fiscal 2006 as the
console installed base continues to expand

23

Table of Contents   

outside of North America. In particular, we believe that in order to succeed in Asia, it is important to develop content locally. As
such, we expect to continue to devote resources to hiring local development talent and expanding
our infrastructure outside of North America, most notably, through the expansion and creation of
local studio facilities in Asia. In addition, we anticipate establishing online game marketing,
publishing and distribution functions in China. As part of this strategy, we may seek to partner
with established local companies through acquisitions, joint ventures or other similar
arrangements. Our international business has also grown through acquisitions and investments such
as our acquisition of Criterion Software Group Ltd. and our tender offer for Digital Illusions C.E.
( DICE ) in fiscal 2005.

Expansion of Studio Resources and Technology.  In fiscal 2005, we devoted significant resources to
the overall expansion of our studio facilities in North America and Europe. As we move through the
life cycle of current-generation consoles, we will continue to devote significant resources to the
development of current-generation titles while at the same time continuing to invest heavily in
tools, technologies and titles for the next-generation of platforms and technology.

Increasing Licensing Costs.  We generate a significant portion of our net revenue and operating
income from games based on licensed content such as Madden NFL Football, FIFA, James Bond and Harry
Potter. We have recently entered into new licenses and renewed older licenses, some of which
contain higher royalty rates than similar license agreements we have entered into in the past. As a
result, we expect our gross margins to continue to be negatively impacted.

Acquisition of JAMDAT . In December 2005, we entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire
JAMDAT Mobile Inc., a global publisher of wireless games and other
wireless entertainment applications. We will pay $27 per share in cash in exchange for each share
of JAMDAT common stock and assume outstanding stock options for a total purchase price of
approximately $680 million, plus transaction costs. This acquisition is subject to customary
closing conditions, including approval by JAMDAT s stockholders and regulatory approvals, and is
expected to close during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses
during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be
critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and
results of operations but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires
both judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result,
actual results may differ materially from our estimates.

Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns, Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves 

We principally derive revenue from sales of packaged interactive software games designed for play
on video game consoles (such as the PlayStation 2, Xbox, Xbox 360 and Nintendo GameCube), PCs and
mobile platforms including hand-held game players (such as the Nintendo Game Boy Advance, Nintendo
DS and Sony PSP) and cellular handsets. We evaluate the recognition of revenue based on the
criteria set forth in Statement of Position ( SOP ) 97-2,
  Software Revenue Recognition  , as
amended by SOP 98-9,   Modification of SOP 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to
Certain Transactions   and Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 101,   Revenue Recognition in
Financial Statements  , as revised by SAB No. 104,
  Revenue Recognition  . We evaluate revenue
recognition using the following basic criteria and recognize revenue when all four of the following
criteria are met:

Evidence of an arrangement: Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the
terms and conditions to deliver products must be present in order to recognize revenue. 

Delivery: Delivery is considered to occur when the products are shipped and risk of loss
and reward have been transferred to the customer. For online games and services, revenue is
recognized as the service is provided. 

Fixed or determinable fee: If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or
determinable, we recognize that amount as revenue when the amount becomes fixed or
determinable. 

24

Table of Contents   

Collection is deemed probable: At the time of the transaction, we conduct a credit review
of each customer involved in a significant transaction to determine the creditworthiness of
the customer. Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we
determine that collection is not probable, we recognize revenue when collection becomes
probable (generally upon cash collection). 

Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions
and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. For
example, for multiple element arrangements, we must make assumptions and judgments in order to: (1)
determine whether and when each element has been delivered; (2) determine whether undelivered
products or services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products and services; (3)
determine whether vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value ( VSOE ) exists for each
undelivered element; and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements we must deliver.
Changes to any of these assumptions or judgments, or changes to the elements in a software
arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in
a particular period.

Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors ( channel partners ), is recognized
when the above criteria are met. We reduce product revenue for estimated future returns, price
protection, and other offerings, which may occur with our customers and channel partners. In
certain countries, we have stock-balancing programs for our PC products, which allow for the
exchange of PC products by resellers under certain circumstances. It is our general practice to
exchange products or give credits, rather than give cash refunds.

In certain countries, from time to time, we decide to provide price protection for both our PC and
video game system products. In our decision, we analyze historical returns, current sell-through of
distributor and retailer inventory of our products, current trends in the video game market and the
overall economy, changes in consumer demand and acceptance of our products and other related
factors when evaluating the adequacy of the sales returns and price protection allowances. In
addition, we monitor the volume of our sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as
substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price
protection costs in subsequent periods.

In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold
products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market
conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing
products. For example, the risk of product returns and/or price protection for our products may
continue to increase as the PlayStation 2, Xbox and Nintendo GameCube consoles move through their
lifecycles and an increasing number and aggregate amount of competitive products heighten pricing
and competitive pressures. While management believes it can make reliable estimates regarding these
matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates changed, our
returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we
report. For example, if actual returns and/or price protection were significantly greater than the
reserves we have established, our actual results would decrease our reported total net revenue.
Conversely, if actual returns and/or price protection were significantly less than our reserves,
this would increase our reported total net revenue.

Significant judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting
period. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating customer creditworthiness in
the context of current economic trends and historical experience. Depending upon the overall
economic climate and the financial condition of our customers, the amount and timing of our bad
debt expense and cash collection could change significantly.

Royalties and Licenses 

Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software
developers and (3) co-publishing and/or distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of
payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other
organizations for our use of their trademark, copyright, personal publicity rights, content and/or
other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for
the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and distribution
royalties are payments made to third parties for delivery of product.

Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in
advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid.
These royalty-based obligations are expensed to cost of goods sold at the greater of the
contractual or effective royalty rate based on expected net product sales. Significant judgment is
required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation
of effective royalty rates requires us to

25

Table of Contents   

project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate (1) the total number of titles subject to the
contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect
to sell, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for hit-based titles is particularly
difficult due to the inherent risk of such titles. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections
change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the royalty expense we
recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing
affiliates are generally in connection with the development of a particular product and, therefore,
we are generally subject to development risk prior to the general release of the product.
Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed as
research and development as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product
(primarily royalty-based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of goods sold at the higher of
the contractual or effective royalty rate based on expected net product sales.

Minimum guaranteed royalty obligations are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the
contractual amount when no significant performance remains with the licensor. When significant
performance remains with the licensor, we record royalty payments as an asset when actually paid
rather than upon execution of the contract. Minimum royalty payment obligations are classified as
current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next
twelve months. As of December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005, approximately $34 million and $51
million, respectively, of minimum guaranteed current and long-term royalty obligations had been
recognized.

Each quarter, we also evaluate the future realization of our royalty-based assets as well as any
unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized
through product sales. Any impairments determined before the launch of a product are charged to
research and development expense. Impairments determined post-launch are charged to cost of goods
sold. In either case, we rely on estimated revenue to evaluate the future realization of prepaid
royalties and commitments. If actual sales or revised revenue estimates fall below the initial
revenue estimate, then the actual charge taken may be greater in any given quarter than
anticipated. We had no impairments during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005.
Impairments for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2004 were $1 million and $3 million,
respectively.

Valuation of Long-Lived Assets 

We evaluate both purchased intangible assets and other long-lived assets in order to determine if
events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in value exists. This evaluation
requires us to estimate, among other things, the remaining useful lives of the assets and future
cash flows of the business. These evaluations and estimates require the use of judgment. Our actual
results could differ materially from our current estimates.

Under current accounting standards, we make judgments about the recoverability of purchased
intangible assets and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
a potential impairment in the remaining value of the assets recorded on our condensed consolidated
balance sheets. In order to determine if a potential impairment has occurred, management makes
various assumptions about the future value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and
estimated cash flows. Our future net cash flows are primarily dependent on the sale of products for
play on proprietary video game consoles, hand-held game players and PCs (collectively referred to
as  platforms ). The success of our products is affected by our ability to accurately predict which
platforms and which products we develop will be successful. Also, our revenue and earnings are
dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules. Due to product sales shortfalls, we
may not realize the future net cash flows necessary to recover our long-lived assets, which may
result in an impairment charge being recorded in the future. There were no impairment charges
recorded in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.

Income Taxes 

In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax
law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Condensed
Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the
jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such
periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our current tax
exposures in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues, require
extended periods of time to resolve, and require us to make judgments, such as anticipating the
positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the
outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. We are also required to make determinations of the need
to record deferred tax liabilities and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. A valuation
allowance is established to the extent recovery of deferred tax assets is not likely based on our
estimation of future taxable income in each jurisdiction.

26

Table of Contents   

In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international
structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions, changes in the geographic mix
and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation
allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and
interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the
estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective income tax
rate and result in a variance between the projected effective tax rate for any quarter and the
final effective tax rate for the fiscal year. For example, during the three months ended September
30, 2005, we resolved various tax-related matters with foreign tax authorities which decreased our
tax expense and engaged in certain intercompany transactions which increased our income tax
expense. Collectively, these items resulted in a net decrease in tax expense for the quarter of
approximately $9 million. Conversely, we expect our acquisition
of JAMDAT Mobile Inc. to adversely impact our effective tax rate.

With respect to our projected effective income tax rate each quarter prior to the end of a fiscal
year, we are required to make a projection of several items, including our projected mix of
full-year income in each jurisdiction in which we operate and the related income tax expense in
each jurisdiction. The projected annual effective income tax rate is also adjusted for taxes
related to certain anticipated changes in how we do business. Significant non-recurring charges are
taken in the quarter incurred. The actual results could vary from those projected, and as such, the
overall effective income tax rate for a fiscal year could be different from that previously
projected for the full year.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Our fiscal year is reported on a 52/53-week period that, historically, has ended on the final
Saturday of March in each year. Beginning with the current fiscal year ending March 31, 2006, we
will end our fiscal year on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal
years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 contain the following number of weeks:

Our results of operations for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 contain
the following number of weeks:

For the three months ended June 30, 2005, there was one additional week included in our results of
operations as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2004.

For simplicity of presentation, all fiscal periods are treated as ending on a calendar month end.

Net Revenue  

We principally derive net revenue from sales of packaged interactive software games designed for
play on video game consoles (such as the PlayStation 2, Xbox, Xbox 360 and Nintendo GameCube), PCs
and mobile platforms which include hand-held game players (such as the Nintendo Game Boy Advance,
Nintendo DS and Sony PSP) and cellular handsets. Additionally, in Europe and Asia, we generate a
significant portion of net revenue by marketing and selling third-party interactive software games
through our established distribution network. We also derive net revenue from selling subscriptions
to some of our online games, programming third-party web sites with our game content, allowing
other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and
selling advertisements on our online web pages.

27

Table of Contents   

From a geographical perspective, our total net revenue for the three and nine months ended December
31, 2005 and 2004 was as follows (in millions):

North America 

For the three months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue in North America was $618 million, driven
primarily by sales of  Need for Speed Most Wanted, Madden NFL 06, Harry Potter and the Goblet of
Fire  and  The Sims 2  as well as sales of titles for the PSP, which was launched in North America
during the three months ended March 31, 2005, and sales of titles for the Xbox 360 launched during
the three months ended December 31, 2005. Overall, net revenue decreased $74 million, or 11
percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in current-year net
revenue was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our NFL Street franchise and the release of  The
Urbz   TM   : Sims in the City   TM   during the three months ended December 31, 2004 as
there were no corresponding titles released during the three months ended December 31, 2005, (2)
lower sales from our Lord of the Rings franchise which was released on multiple platforms during
the three months ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the release of the current-year title on
one platform, the PSP, during the three months ended December 31, 2005, and (3) lower sales from
our Need for Speed franchise. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by (1) the release
of  Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire  and  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat  during the
third quarter of fiscal 2006, as well as (2) higher revenue from our Madden franchise primarily
resulting from the release of  Madden NFL 06  on the Xbox 360 and PSP in the current year.

For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue in North America was $1,245 million,
driven primarily by sales of  Madden NFL 06 ,  Need for Speed Most Wanted, NBA LIVE 06  and  NCAA
Football 06 , as well as sales of titles for the PSP and Xbox 360 .  Overall, net revenue was down
$131 million, or 10 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2004. This decrease
was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our NFL Street, Fight Night and Def Jam franchises and
the release of  The Urbz: Sims in the City  during the three months ended December 31, 2004 as there
were no corresponding titles released during the nine months ended December 31, 2005, (2) lower
sales from our Lord of the Rings franchise which was released on multiple platforms during the
three months ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the release of the current-year title on one
platform, the PSP, during the three months ended December 31, 2005, and (3) lower sales from our
Need for Speed franchise. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by current-year sales
from (1) the release of  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat  during the third quarter of fiscal 2006, (2)
higher revenue from our Madden franchise primarily resulting from the release of  Madden NFL 06  on
the Xbox 360 and PSP in the current year, as well as (3) the current-year release of  Marvel
Nemesis   TM   : Rise of the Imperfects   TM  .

Europe 

For the three months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue in Europe was $577 million, driven
primarily by sales of  Need for Speed Most Wanted, FIFA 06 ,  Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire  and
 The Sims 2 , as well as sales of titles for the PSP which was launched in Europe during the three
months ended September 30, 2005 and sales of titles for the Xbox 360 launched during

28

Table of Contents   

the three months ended December 31, 2005. Overall, net revenue declined $89 million, or 13 percent,
as compared to the three months ended December 30, 2004. We estimate that foreign exchange rates
(primarily the Euro and the British pound sterling) decreased reported European net revenue by
approximately $20 million, or 3 percent, net of realized gains from hedging activities, for the
three months ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2004. The
decrease in net revenue was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings franchise,
(2) lower sales from our FIFA franchise resulting from the release of  FIFA 06  in Europe during the
second quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared to  FIFA Soccer 2005 , which was released in the third
quarter of fiscal 2005, and (3) the release of  The Urbz: Sims in the City  during the three months
ended December 31, 2004 as there was no corresponding title released during the three months ended
December 31, 2005. The overall decline in net revenue was mitigated by the release of  Harry Potter
and the Goblet of Fire  during the third quarter of fiscal 2006.

For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue in Europe was $912 million, driven
primarily by sales of  FIFA 06, Need for Speed Most Wanted, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire  and
 The Sims 2 , as well as sales of titles for the PSP and Xbox 360. Overall, net revenue declined $154
million, or 14 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2004. We estimate that
foreign exchange rates (primarily the Euro and the British pound sterling) decreased reported
European net revenue by approximately $14 million, or 1 percent, net of realized gains from hedging
activities, for the nine months ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the nine months ended
December 31, 2004. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, we estimate that European net
revenue decreased by approximately $140 million, or 13 percent, for the nine months ended December
31, 2005. The overall decrease in net revenue was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of
the Rings and The Sims franchises, (2) the release of  The Urbz: Sims in the City  during the three
months ended December 31, 2004 as there was no corresponding title released during the nine months
ended December 31, 2005, and (3) higher prior year sales of  UEFA Euro 2004   TM  , which was
released in the three months ended June 30, 2004 in conjunction with the UEFA Euro 2004 football
tournament held in Europe. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by the release of
multiple titles from our Battlefield franchise during fiscal 2006.

Asia 

For the three months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue in Asia increased by $5 million, or 7
percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2004. We estimate that foreign exchange
rates decreased reported Asia net revenue by approximately $1 million, or 2 percent, for the three
months ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2004. The
increase in net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2005 was driven primarily by sales
of titles for the PSP.

For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue in Asia increased by $20 million, or 15
percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2004. We estimate that foreign exchange
rates increased reported Asia net revenue by approximately $2 million, or 1 percent, for the nine
months ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2004. The increase
in net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2005 was driven primarily by sales of titles
for the PSP.

29

Table of Contents   

Our total net revenue by product line for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and
2004 was as follows (in millions):

30

Table of Contents   

PlayStation 2 

For the three months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation
2 was $495 million, driven primarily by sales of  Need for Speed Most Wanted, FIFA 06  and  Harry
Potter and the Goblet of Fire.  We released eight titles for the Play Station 2 during the three
months ended December 31, 2005, as compared to nine titles in the three months ended December 31,
2004. Overall, PlayStation 2 net revenue decreased $166 million, or 25 percent, as compared to the
three months ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in current-year net revenue was primarily due to
(1) lower sales of current-year releases from our Need for Speed franchise, (2) lower sales from
our NBA Live franchise resulting from the release of  NBA LIVE 06  during the second quarter of
fiscal 2006 as compared to  NBA LIVE 2005 , which was released in the third quarter of fiscal 2005,
(3) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings franchise, which did not have a current-year release,
(4) the release of  The Urbz: Sims in the City  during the three months ended December 31, 2004 as
there was no corresponding title released during the three months ended December 31, 2005, and (5)
lower sales from our FIFA franchise as  FIFA 06  was released in Europe during the three months ended
September 30, 2005, as compared to  FIFA Soccer 2005 , which was released during the three months
ended December 31, 2004. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by the release of  Harry
Potter and the Goblet of Fire  during the three months ended December 31, 2005.

For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2
was $916 million, driven primarily by sales of  Madden NFL 06, Need for Speed Most Wanted  and  FIFA
06 . We released 20 titles for the PlayStation 2 during the nine months ended December 31, 2005, as
compared to 21 titles in the nine months ended December 31, 2004. Overall, PlayStation 2 net
revenue decreased $219 million, or 19 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31,
2004. The decrease was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings, Fight Night and
Def Jam franchises, none of which had current-year releases, (2) the release of  The Urbz: Sims in
the City  during the three months ended December 31, 2004 as there was no corresponding title
released during the nine months ended December 31, 2005, and (3) lower sales of current-year
releases from our Need for Speed and Bond franchises. The overall decrease in net revenue was
mitigated by the release of  Medal of Honor European Assault ,  which did not have a corresponding
release in the nine months ended December 31, 2004.

Xbox 

For the three months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox was
$152 million, driven primarily by sales of  Need for Speed Most Wanted  and  Battlefield 2: Modern
Combat.  We released eight titles for the Xbox during the three months ended December 31, 2005, as
compared to nine titles in the three months ended December 31, 2004. Overall, Xbox net revenue
decreased $81 million, or 35 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2004. The
decrease was primarily due to (1) lower sales of current-year releases from our Need for Speed and
FIFA franchises, (2) lower sales from our NBA Live franchise resulting from the release of  NBA LIVE
06  during the second quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared to  NBA LIVE 2005 , which was released in the
third quarter of fiscal 2005, (3) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings and NFL Street franchises,
neither of which had a current-year release, and (4) the release of  The Urbz: Sims in the City 
during the three months ended December 31, 2004, as there was no corresponding title released
during the three months ended December 31, 2005.

For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox was $332
million, driven primarily by sales of  Madden NFL 06  and  Need for Speed Most Wanted.  We released 20
titles for the Xbox during each of the nine-month periods ended December 31, 2005 and December 31,
2004. Overall, Xbox net revenue decreased $100 million, or 23 percent, as compared to the nine
months ended December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of
the Rings, Fight Night and Def Jam franchises, none of which had current-year releases, (2) the
release of  The Urbz: Sims in the City , during the three months ended December 31, 2004 as there was
no corresponding title released during the nine months ended December 31, 2005, and (3) lower sales
of current-year releases from our Need for Speed and Bond franchises. The overall decrease in net
revenue was mitigated by the release of  Battlefield 2: Modern Combat,  which did not have a
corresponding release in the nine months ended December 31, 2004.

Xbox 360 

The Xbox 360 was launched in limited quantities in North America, Europe and Japan, during the
three months ended December 31, 2005. Net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360, was $76
million for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005, driven by sales of  Need for Speed
Most Wanted ,  Madden NFL 06  and three other titles released for the Xbox 360 during the three months
ended December 31, 2005.

31

Table of Contents   

Nintendo GameCube 

For the three months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo
GameCube was $69 million, driven primarily by sales of  Need for Speed Most Wanted  and  Harry Potter
and the Goblet of Fire.  We released five titles for the Nintendo GameCube during the three months
ended December 31, 2005, as compared to seven titles in the three months ended December 31, 2004.
Overall, Nintendo GameCube net revenue decreased $40 million, or 37 percent, as compared to three
months ended December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of
the Rings and NFL Street franchises, neither of which had current-year releases, (2) the release of
 The Urbz: Sims in the City  during the three months ended December 31, 2004 as there was no
corresponding title released during the three months ended December 31, 2005, and (3) lower sales
of current-year releases from our Need for Speed, Bond and FIFA franchises. The overall decrease in
net revenue was mitigated by the release of  Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire  during the three
months ended December 31, 2005.

For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo
GameCube was $118 million, driven primarily by sales of  Need for Speed Most Wanted, Harry Potter
and the Goblet of Fire  and  Madden NFL 06.  We released 13 titles for the Nintendo GameCube during
the nine months ended December 31, 2005, as compared to 15 titles in the nine months ended December
31, 2004. Overall, Nintendo GameCube net revenue decreased $56 million, or 32 percent, as compared
to the nine months ended December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily due to (1) lower sales from
our Lord of the Rings, NFL Street and Def Jam franchises, none of which had current-year releases,
(2) the release of  The Urbz: Sims in the City  during the three months ended December 31, 2004 as
there was no corresponding title released during the nine months ended December 31, 2005, and (3)
lower sales of current-year releases from our Need for Speed and Bond franchises.

PC 

For the three months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue from sales of titles for the PC was $148
million, driven primarily by sales of titles from our Sims franchise,  Need for Speed Most Wanted 
and  Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.  We released seven titles for the PC during each of the
three-month periods ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. Overall, PC net revenue
decreased $91 million, or 38 percent, as compared to three months ended December 31, 2004. The
decrease was primarily due to (1) lower sales from our Lord of the Rings and Medal of Honor
franchises, neither of which had titles released during the three months ended December 31, 2005,
and (2) significantly higher prior year sales of  The Sims 2 . The overall decrease in net revenue
was mitigated by the current-year release of  Battlefield 2: Special Forces  . Starting on January
27, 2005, we consolidated DICE s financial results into our financial statements, and, therefore,
have characterized  Battlefield 2  PC-based revenue as part of our PC product line. Prior to
consolidating DICE s financial results, we classified revenue from the Battlefield franchise as
co-publishing and distribution revenue.

For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, net revenue from sales of titles for the PC was $313
million, driven primarily by sales of titles from our Sims franchise and  Battlefield 2 . We released
15 titles for the PC during the nine months ended December 31, 2005, as compared to 16 titles in
the nine months ended December 31, 2004. Overall, PC net revenue decreased $133 million, or 30
percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily due to
(1) significantly higher prior year sales of  The Sims 2 , and (2) lower sales from our Medal of
Honor and Lord of the Rings franchises, neither of which had titles released during the nine months
ended December 31, 2005. The overall decrease in net revenue was mitigated by current-year sales of
products from our Battlefield franchise.

Mobility 

Net revenue from mobile products increased from $55 million in the three months ended December 31,
2004 to $192 million in the three months ended December 31, 2005. Mobile products include games for
all mobile devices such as hand-helds and cellular handsets. The increase in mobility net revenue
for the three months ended December 31, 2005 was primarily due to sales of titles for the PSP and the
Nintendo DS that were released in certain regions during the six months ended March 31, 2005.

Net revenue from mobile products increased from $83 million in the nine months ended December 31,
2004 to $305 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2005. The increase in mobility net
revenue was primarily due to sales of titles for the PSP and Nintendo DS. The increase was
partially offset by lower sales of titles for the Game Boy Advance.

32

Table of Contents   

Co-Publishing and Distribution 

Net revenue from co-publishing and distribution products increased from $79 million in the three
months ended December 31, 2004 to $99 million in the three months ended December 31, 2005. The
increase was primarily due to revenue from  Half-Life    2  and the release of  Black   White  2  during
the three months ended December 31, 2005.

Net revenue from co-publishing and distribution products decreased from $195 million in the nine
months ended December 31, 2004 to $161 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2005. The
decrease was primarily due to (1) the change in our classification of sales of products from our
Battlefield franchise, which, as discussed above, we no longer classify as co-publishing and
distribution revenue, and (2) higher prior-year sales of various co-publishing and distribution
titles.

Subscription Services 

Net revenue from subscription services increased from $39 million in the nine months ended December
31, 2004 to $45 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2005. The increase in net revenue was
primarily due to an increase in the number of paying subscribers to Club Pogo , partially offset by
a decrease in net revenue from  Ultima Online   and  The Sims Online  .

Cost of Goods Sold  

Cost of goods sold for our disk-based and cartridge-based products consists of (1) product costs,
(2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations and
independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other
vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post-launch prepaid
royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, and (7) operations expenses. Volume
discounts are generally recognized upon achievement of milestones and vendor reimbursements are
generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of goods sold for our online
product subscription business consists primarily of data center and bandwidth costs associated with
hosting our web sites, credit card fees and royalties for use of third-party intellectual
properties. Cost of goods sold for our web site advertising business primarily consists of
ad-serving costs.

Cost of goods sold for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows
(in millions):

In the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005, cost of goods sold as a percentage of total
net revenue increased by 4.3 and 3.2 percentage points,
respectively. These increases were driven by:

Higher average product costs as a percentage of total net revenue in North America
and Europe during the three months ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the three
months ended December 31, 2004 driven by lower average revenue per unit resulting from
pricing actions taken or expected to be taken; 

Higher costs as a percentage of total net revenue associated with our co-publishing
and distribution agreements as  Half Life 2 ,  Black   White 2  and  Resident Evil    4  were
released; and 

Higher license royalties as a percentage of total net revenue due to our new license
agreements with the NFL, Players Inc. and Collegiate Licensing
Company. 

Offsetting the increases in both the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 as compared to
the three and nine months ended December 31, 2004 were lower net manufacturing royalties and lower
third-party development royalties as a percentage of total net revenue due to the internal
development of  Burnout  Revenge  in the current year as compared to the external development of
 Burnout  3:Takedown   in the prior year.

We expect cost of goods sold to increase as a percentage of total net revenue during fiscal 2006 as
compared to fiscal 2005. We have experienced and expect to continue to see margin pressure as a
result of decreases in average selling prices as current-generation platforms mature and our
industry transitions to next-generation technology. In addition, we have experienced higher

33

Table of Contents   

license royalty rates as a percentage of revenue and expect this trend to continue. Although there
can be no assurance, and our actual results could differ materially, we expect this pressure to be
partially offset by lower net manufacturing royalty rates and lower third-party development
royalties.

Marketing and Sales   

Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs and advertising, marketing and
promotional expenses, net of advertising expense reimbursements from third parties.

Marketing and sales expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as
follows (in millions):

For the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005, marketing and sales expenses increased by
$14 million, or 11 percent, and $25 million, or 8 percent, respectively, as compared to the three
and nine months ended December 31, 2004. These increases were primarily due to (1) our marketing
and advertising, promotional and related contracted service expenses as a result of increased
advertising to support our titles, and (2) an increase in facility-related expenses in support of
our marketing and sales functions worldwide.

We expect marketing and sales expense as a percentage of net revenue to increase for the twelve
months ending March 31, 2006 as compared to the prior fiscal year.

General and Administrative   

General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and
administrative staff, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances
for doubtful accounts.

General and administrative expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004
were as follows (in millions):

For the three months ended December 31, 2005, general and administrative expenses decreased by $20
million, or 26 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2004 primarily due to
higher personnel-related litigation expenses and other employee-related costs in the prior year.

For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, general and administrative expenses increased by $5
million, or 3 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2004 primarily due to
higher wages resulting from an increase in headcount as well as an increase in professional and
contracted services to support our business. These increases were partially offset by higher
personnel-related litigation expenses in the prior year.

We expect general and administrative expense as a percentage of net revenue to remain relatively
unchanged for the twelve months ending March 31, 2006 as compared to the prior year.

34

Table of Contents   

Research and Development   

Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for
personnel-related costs, consulting, equipment depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties
for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online business include expenses
incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection
with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also
include expenses associated with the development of web site content, network infrastructure direct
expenses, software licenses and maintenance, and network and management overhead.

Research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004
were as follows (in millions):

For the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005, research and development expenses increased
by $21 million, or 11 percent, and $98 million, or 21 percent, respectively, as compared to the
three and nine months ended December 31, 2004. These increases were primarily due to an increase in
personnel-related costs resulting from an increase in employee headcount in our Canadian and
European studios as we increased our internal development efforts and invested in next-generation
tools, technologies and titles, as well as our recent consolidation of DICE. To a lesser extent,
these increases were also due to higher facilities-related costs offset by lower third-party
development costs.

We expect research and development expense as a percentage of net revenue to increase for the
twelve months ending March 31, 2006 as compared to the prior year.

Acquired In-process Technology  

Acquired in-process technology charges for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and
2004 were as follows (in millions):

The acquired in-process technology was the result of our acquisition of Criterion Software during
the three and nine months ended December 31, 2004. Acquired in-process technology includes the
value of products in the development stage that are not considered to have reached technological
feasibility or have alternative future use. Accordingly, the acquired in-process technology was
expensed in the Consolidated Statements of Operations upon consummation of this acquisition.

Should our acquisition of JAMDAT Mobile Inc. close as expected during our fourth quarter of
fiscal 2006, we would expect to incur expenses related to acquired in-process technology at that time.

35

Table of Contents   

Restructuring Charges  

Restructuring charges for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as
follows (in millions):

In connection with our intention to establish an international publishing headquarters in Geneva,
Switzerland, during the next nine months, we expect to open a new facility in Geneva, relocate
certain current employees to Geneva, hire new employees in Geneva, close certain facilities in the
UK, and make other related changes in our international publishing business. We intend to treat
certain costs that are directly associated with our international publishing reorganization as
 restructuring costs  (as defined by SFAS No. 146,   Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities  ). Other costs that are not properly categorized as restructuring costs will
generally be treated as normal operating expenses in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Operations. In accordance with SFAS No. 146, we will generally expense the restructuring costs as
they are incurred and accrue costs associated with certain facility closures at the time we exit
the facility.

We expect to incur between $55 million and $65 million in total restructuring costs, substantially
all of which will result in cash expenditures. These restructuring costs will consist primarily of
employee-related relocation assistance (approximately $43 million), facility exit costs
(approximately $10 million), as well as other reorganization
costs (approximately $8 million). While we may incur severance costs paid to terminating employees in connection with the
reorganization, we do not expect these costs to be significant. Approximately $15 million of these charges will be incurred during fiscal 2006, of which $7 million
for the closure of certain UK facilities and $1 million in other costs in connection with our
international publishing reorganization were incurred during the three months ended
December 31, 2005 and included in restructuring charges in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Operations.

Interest and Other Income, Net  

Interest and other income, net, for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were
as follows (in millions):

For the three months ended December 31, 2005, interest and other income, net, decreased by $3
million, or 13 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2004 primarily due to a
decrease of $8 million from gains on investments and net gains on our foreign currency activities.
This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $5 million in interest income as a result of
higher yields on our cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment balances.

For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, interest and other income, net, increased by $5
million, or 11 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2004 primarily due to an
increase of $23 million in interest income as a result of higher yields on our cash, cash
equivalent and short-term investment balances, partially offset by a decrease of $11 million in
gains on investments and a decrease of $6 million in net gains on our foreign currency activities.

36

Table of Contents   

Income Taxes   

Income taxes for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows (in
millions):

Our effective income tax rate reflects our significant operations outside the U.S., which are
generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent. Our effective income tax
rates were 29 percent and 27 percent for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2005,
respectively. The nine month rate reflected the impact of certain adjustments recorded in the three
months ended September 30, 2005 as a result of the resolution of various tax-related matters with
foreign tax authorities, offset by additional income taxes resulting from certain intercompany
transactions during the three months ended September 30, 2005. The net impact of these adjustments
was that we recognized $9 million (or $0.03 per basic and diluted share) less income tax expense
for the nine months ended December 31, 2005 than we would have recognized had our projected annual
effective income tax rate remained at 29 percent

During the three months ended December 31, 2004, our effective income tax rate was 31 percent which
differed from our previously projected annual effective income tax rate of 29 percent for fiscal
2005 due to an adjustment recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2004 related to certain
tax audit developments and tax charges related to the Criterion acquisition. As a result, we
recognized $10 million (or $0.03 per basic and diluted share) more income tax expense during the
three months ended December 31, 2004 than we would have recognized had our projected effective
income tax rate remained at 29 percent.

Should our acquisition of JAMDAT Mobile Inc. close as expected during our fourth quarter of
fiscal 2006, we expect acquisition-related charges to adversely impact our effective tax rate for the
three months and fiscal year ended March 31, 2006.

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Jobs Act ), enacted on October 22, 2004, provides for
a temporary 85 percent dividends received deduction on certain foreign earnings repatriated in
fiscal 2005 or fiscal 2006. The deduction would result in an approximate 5.25 percent federal tax
on a portion of the foreign earnings repatriated. State, local and foreign taxes could apply as
well. To qualify for this federal tax deduction, the earnings must be reinvested in the United
States pursuant to a domestic reinvestment plan established by our Chief Executive Officer and
approved by the Board of Directors. Certain other criteria in the Jobs Act must be satisfied as
well. The maximum amount of our foreign earnings that we may repatriate subject to the Jobs Act
deduction is $500 million.

We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be
indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. As a result of
the Jobs Act, we are in the process of evaluating whether we will
make a decision during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 to change our intentions regarding a
portion of our foreign earnings and take advantage of the repatriation provisions of the Jobs Act,
and if so, the amount that we would repatriate. We may not take advantage of the new law at all. In
addition to not having made a decision to repatriate any foreign earnings, we are not yet in a
position to accurately determine the impact of a qualifying repatriation, should we choose to make
one, on our income tax expense for fiscal 2006. If we decide to repatriate a portion of our foreign
earnings, we would be required to recognize income tax expense related to the federal, state, local
and foreign taxes that we would incur on the repatriated earnings in
the forth quarter of fiscal 2006. We
estimate that the reasonably possible amount of the income tax
expense could be up to $27 million if we were to repatriate the
maximum amount eligible for the favorable treatment under the Jobs
Act.

In July 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued an exposure draft of a
proposed interpretation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 109,
  Accounting for Income Taxes   which addresses the accounting for uncertain tax positions. The
proposed interpretation provides that the best estimate of the impact of a tax position would be
recognized in an entity s financial statements only if it is probable that the position will be
sustained on audit based solely on its technical merits. This proposed interpretation also would
provide guidance on disclosure, accrual of interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods
and transition. We cannot predict what actions the FASB will take or how any such actions might
ultimately affect our financial position or results of operations. In January 2006, the FASB
announced that companies would not have to apply the proposed interpretation until fiscal years
beginning after December 31, 2006.

37

Table of Contents   

Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

In March 2004, the FASB ratified the measurement and recognition guidance and certain disclosure
requirements for impaired securities as described in Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Issue No.
03-1,   The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its
Application to Certain Investments  .
In June 2005, the FASB directed its staff to issue proposed FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) EITF
03-1-a,   Implementation Guidance for the Application of Paragraph 16 of EITF Issue No. 03-1 ,  as
final. The FASB retitled this FSP as FSP Financial Accounting
Standard ( FAS ) 115-1,   The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment
and Its Application to Certain Investments  . The final FSP supersedes EITF Issue No. 03-1 and EITF
Topic D-44,   Recognition of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment upon the Planned Sale of a Security
Whose Cost Exceeds Fair Value  . The final FSP replaces the guidance set forth in paragraphs 10
through 18 of EITF Issue No. 03-1 with references to existing other-than-temporary impairment
guidance. In September 2005, the FASB decided to retain the paragraph in the proposed FSP on how to
account for debt securities subsequent to an other-than-temporary impairment. The FASB also decided
to add a footnote to clarify that the proposed FSP does not address when a holder of a debt
security would place a debt security on nonaccrual status or how to subsequently report income on a
nonaccrual debt security. The FASB decided that transition would be applied prospectively and the
effective date would be reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. In November 2005, the
FASB issued FSP FAS 115-1. We are currently evaluating what impact the adoption of the measurement
and recognition guidance in FSP FAS 115-1 will have on our consolidated financial statements.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,   Inventory Costs   an amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4  . SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin ( ARB ) No. 43,
Chapter 4,   Inventory Pricing  , to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility
expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage) and requires that those items be
recognized as current-period charges. SFAS No. 151 also requires that allocation of fixed
production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production
facilities. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning
after June 15, 2005. We believe the adoption of SFAS No. 151 will not have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) ( SFAS No. 123R ),   Share-Based
Payment  . SFAS No. 123R requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions
be recognized in financial statements using a fair-value-based method. The statement replaces SFAS
No. 123,   Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation  , supersedes Accounting Principles Board
( APB ) No. 25,   Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees  , and amends SFAS No. 95,   Statement
of Cash Flows  . While the fair value method under SFAS No. 123R is similar to the fair value method
under SFAS No. 123 with regards to measurement and recognition of stock-based compensation, we are
currently evaluating the impact of several of the key differences between the two standards on our
consolidated financial statements. For example, SFAS No. 123 permits us to recognize forfeitures as
they occur while SFAS No. 123R will require us to estimate future forfeitures and adjust our
estimate on a quarterly basis. SFAS No. 123R also will require a classification change in the
statement of cash flows, whereby a portion of the tax benefit from stock options will move from
operating cash flow activities to financing cash flow activities (total cash flows will remain
unchanged). In October 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 123(R)-2,   Practical Accommodation to the Application of Grant Date As Defined
in FASB Statement No. 123(R)  . The FASB provides companies with a  practical accommodation  when
determining the grant date of an award subject to SFAS 123R. If (1) the award is a unilateral
grant, that is, the recipient does not have the ability to negotiate the key terms and conditions
of the award with the employer, (2) the key terms and conditions of the award are expected to be
communicated to an individual recipient within a relatively short time period, and (3) all other
criteria in the grant date definition have been met, then a mutual understanding of the key terms
and conditions of an award is presumed to exist at the date the award is approved. In November
2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 123(R)-3,   Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax
Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards  . The FASB allows for a practical exception in calculating
the additional paid-in capital pool of excess tax benefits upon adoption that is available to
absorb tax deficiencies recognized subsequent to adoption SFAS No. 123R. Accordingly, we may adopt
either the method prescribed under SFAS No. 123R or the one prescribed under FSP FAS No. 123(R)-3.
We have not yet determined which method to adopt.

In
March 2005, the SEC released SAB No. 107,
  Share-based Payment  , which provides the views of the
staff regarding the interaction between SFAS No. 123R and certain SEC rules and regulations for
public companies. In April 2005, the SEC adopted a rule that amends the compliance dates of SFAS
No. 123R. Under the revised compliance dates, we will be required to adopt the provisions of SFAS
No. 123R no later than our first quarter of fiscal 2007. While we continue to evaluate the impact
of SFAS No. 123R on our consolidated financial statements, we currently believe that the expensing
of stock-based compensation will have an impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Operations similar to our pro forma disclosure under SFAS No. 123, as amended.

38

Table of Contents   

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,   Accounting Changes and Error Corrections A Replacement
of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3  . SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the
accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. Under previous guidance, changes in
accounting principle were recognized as a cumulative affect in the net income of the period of the
change. The new Statement requires retrospective application of changes in accounting principle,
limited to the direct effects of the change, to prior periods  financial statements, unless it is
impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the
change. Additionally, this Statement requires that a change in depreciation, amortization or
depletion method for long-lived, nonfinancial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting
estimate affected by a change in accounting principle and that correction of errors in previously
issued financial statements should be termed a  restatement . SFAS No. 154 is effective for
accounting changes and correction of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005.
We do not believe that upon adoption of SFAS No. 154 will have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements, however, after adoption, if a change in accounting principle is
made, SFAS No. 154 could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In October 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 13-1,   Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred during a
Construction Period  , which provides that rental costs associated with ground or building operating
leases that are incurred during a construction period shall be recognized as rental expense. FSP
FAS No. 13-1 is required to be applied to the first reporting period beginning after December 15,
2005. We do not believe the adoption of FSP FAS No. 13-1 will have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Changes in Cash Flow  
During the nine months ended December 31, 2005, we generated $259 million of cash from operating
activities as compared to $160 million of cash generated for the nine months ended December 31,
2004. The increase in cash generated from operating activities was primarily due to a higher
percentage of revenue recognized in the first two months of our third quarter of fiscal 2006 as
compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2005, which allowed us to collect a higher percentage of
our net revenue during the quarter. As compared to fiscal 2005, we expect lower operating cash
flows during the remainder of fiscal 2006.

For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, our primary use of cash in non-operating activities
consisted of $709 million used to repurchase and retire a portion of our common stock, $347 million
used to purchase short-term investments, and $87 million in capital expenditures primarily related
to the expansion of our Vancouver studio and investments in our worldwide development tools,
technologies and equipment. These non-operating expenditures were offset by $948 million in
proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments and $151 million in proceeds from
sales of common stock through our stock plans. We anticipate making continued capital investments
in our Vancouver studio during fiscal 2006.

In December 2005, we entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire JAMDAT Mobile Inc., a
global publisher of wireless games and other wireless entertainment applications. We will pay $27 per share in cash in

39

Table of Contents   

exchange for each share of JAMDAT common stock
and assume outstanding stock options for a total purchase price of approximately $680 million, plus
transaction costs. This acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval
by JAMDAT s stockholders and regulatory approvals, and is expected to close during our fourth
quarter of fiscal 2006.

Short-term investments and marketable equity securities  
As of December 31, 2005, our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was
comprised of 57 percent cash and cash equivalents and 43 percent short-term investments. As of
March 31, 2005, 43 percent of our portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents and 57 percent
of our portfolio consisted of short-term investments. In absolute dollars, our cash and equivalents
increased from $1,270 million as of March 31, 2005 to $1,462 million as of December 31, 2005. This
increase was primarily due to $948 million in proceeds received from maturities and sales of
short-term investments partially offset by $709 million of cash used for our common stock
repurchase program during the first six months of fiscal 2006. Due to our mix of fixed and variable
rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term
interest rates. As of December 31, 2005, our short-term investments included gross unrealized
losses of approximately $14 million, or 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time
to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or
other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs.
Depending on which short-term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize
a portion of the gross unrealized losses.

Marketable equity securities increased to $167 million as of December 31, 2005, from $140 million
as of March 31, 2005, primarily due to an increase in the unrealized gain on our investment in
Ubisoft Entertainment.

Receivables, net  
Our gross accounts receivable balances were $829 million and $458 million as of December 31, 2005
and March 31, 2005, respectively. The increase in our accounts receivable balance was expected due
to our higher sales volume in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared to the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2005. We expect our accounts receivable balance to decrease during the three months ending
March 31, 2006 based on our seasonal product release schedule. Reserves for sales returns, pricing
allowances and doubtful accounts increased from $162 million as of March 31, 2005 to $262 million
as of December 31, 2005. Reserves for sales returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts
increased in absolute dollars and as a percentage of trailing six and nine month net revenue as of
December 31, 2005 as compared to March 31, 2005 primarily as a result of the seasonality in our
business. Reserves for sales returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts increased in both
absolute dollars from $206 million as of December 31, 2004 to $262 million as of December 31, 2005,
and as a percentage of trailing six and nine month net revenue from 10 percent and 8 percent,
respectively, as of December 31, 2004, to 13 percent and 11 percent, respectively, as of December
31, 2005 as a result of lower anticipated demand for our products and the continued decline in the
average prices of our titles for current-generation consoles due to the competitive retail
environment. We believe these reserves are adequate based on historical experience and our current
estimate of potential returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts.

Inventories  
Inventories increased to $76 million as of December 31, 2005, from $62 million as of March 31,
2005, primarily due to the seasonality of our business. Other than  Need for Speed Most Wanted , no
single title represented more than $4 million of inventory as of December 31, 2005.

Other current assets  
Other current assets increased to $208 million as of December 31, 2005, from $164 million as of
March 31, 2005, primarily due to an increase in advertising credits owed to us by our suppliers and
an increase in prepaid royalties as we continue to invest in our product development and content.

Accounts payable  
Accounts payable increased to $187 million as of December 31, 2005, from $134 million as of March
31, 2005, primarily due to higher sales volumes and higher expenditures to support the seasonality
of our business worldwide in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared to the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2005.

Accrued and other liabilities  
Our accrued and other liabilities increased to $760 million as of December 31, 2005 from $694
million as of March 31, 2005. The increase was primarily due to an increase in accrued value added
taxes, royalties payable and deferred revenue. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in
income taxes payable primarily due to a $73 million reduction we recorded during

40

Table of Contents   

the nine months ended December 31, 2005 following a recent U.S. Tax Court ruling regarding the proper allocation of
the tax deduction for stock options between U.S. and foreign entities. Although the Tax Court
ruling remains subject to appeal, as a precedent, it is relevant to our situation. Accordingly, we
released a reserve of $73 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2005, whereby, we
recorded a reduction to our income tax payable and an increase to additional paid-in capital. This
had no impact on our statement of operations or on our net operating cash flow.

Financial Condition  
We believe that existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, marketable equity
securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements
for at least the next twelve months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures,
our JAMDAT acquisition and potential future acquisitions or strategic investments. We may choose at
any time to raise additional capital to strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion,
pursue strategic acquisitions and investments or to take advantage of business opportunities as
they arise. There can be no guarantee that such additional capital will be available to us on
favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing
stockholders.

Our two lease agreements with Keybank National Association, described in the  Off-Balance Sheet
Commitments  section below, are scheduled to expire in June 2006 and July 2006. We currently are
evaluating whether to extend the leases, purchase the properties under lease, or identify a
third-party buyer for the properties when the leases expire. Should we choose to renew the leases,
our lease payments may change from the amounts under the current lease agreements. Should we choose
to purchase the properties, we could incur a cash outflow of approximately $200 million. We have
not yet determined the course of action that we will take.

A portion of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments that was generated from
operations domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions (approximately $847 million as of December 31,
2005) is designated as indefinitely reinvested in the respective tax jurisdiction. While we have no
plans to repatriate these funds to the United States in the short
term (other than possibly pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act
of 2004, as described below), if we were required to do
so in order to fund our operations in the United States, we would accrue and pay additional taxes
in connection with their repatriation. We are in the process of evaluating whether we will
repatriate foreign earnings under the repatriation provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of
2004. We estimate that the reasonably possible amount of the income
tax expense could be up to $27
million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.

On October 18, 2004, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to an aggregate
of $750 million of our common stock. Pursuant to the authorization, we were able to repurchase
shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market or through privately negotiated
transactions over the course of a twelve-month period. Our common stock repurchase program was
completed in September 2005. We repurchased and retired the following (in millions):

We have a  shelf  registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any
time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings up
to a total amount of $2.0 billion. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement
accompanying the base prospectus, we will use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities
offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for
working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and
distribution efforts and, if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending
such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may
conduct concurrent or other financings at any time.

Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties
including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our titles on new
platforms and new versions of our titles on existing platforms, our ability to collect our accounts
receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and
attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of competition, the economic conditions in
the domestic and international markets, seasonality in operating results, risks of product returns
and the other risks described in the  Risk Factors  section below.

41

Table of Contents   

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments 

Letters of Credit  
In July 2002, we provided an irrevocable standby letter of credit to Nintendo of Europe. The
standby letter of credit guarantees performance of our obligations to pay Nintendo of Europe for
trade payables. The original letter of credit guaranteed our trade payable obligations to Nintendo
of Europe of up to    18 million. In April 2005, we reduced the guarantee to    8 million and in
September 2005 we increased the guarantee to    15 million. This standby letter of credit expired in
July 2005 and was renewed through July 2006. As of December 31, 2005, we had    2 million payable to
Nintendo of Europe covered by this standby letter of credit.

In August 2003, we provided an irrevocable standby letter of credit to 300 California Associates
II, LLC in replacement of our security deposit for office space. The standby letter of credit
guarantees performance of our obligations to pay our lease commitment up to approximately $1
million. The standby letter of credit expires in December 2006. As of December 31, 2005, we did not
have a payable balance covered by this standby letter of credit.

Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments  
The products produced by our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists,
software programmers and by non-employee software developers ( independent artists  or  third-party
developers ). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third-party
developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the
completion of specified development milestones.

Contractually, these payments are considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of
the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent
artists and third-party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content
license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that are not
dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include:
FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation and UEFA (professional soccer); NASCAR (stock car racing); National
Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR (professional golf); Tiger Woods
(professional golf); National Hockey League and NHLPA (professional hockey); Warner Bros. (Harry
Potter, Batman and Superman); MGM (James Bond); New Line Productions (The Lord of the Rings); Saul
Zaentz Company (The Lord of the Rings); Marvel Enterprises (fighting); John Madden (professional
football); National Football League Properties, Arena Football League and PLAYERS Inc.
(professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football, basketball and
baseball); ISC (stock car racing); Simcoh (Def Jam); Viacom Consumer Products (The Godfather);
Valve Corporation (Half-Life and Counter-Strike); ESPN (content in EA SPORTS TM  games);
and Twentieth Century Fox Licensing and Merchandising (The Simpsons). These developer and content
license commitments represent the sum of (i) the cash payments due under non-royalty-bearing
licenses and services agreements and (ii) the minimum payments and advances against royalties due
under royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon
performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related marketing
commitments are included in the table below.

The following table summarizes our minimum contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of
December 31, 2005, and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future
periods (in millions):

42

Table of Contents   

(1)  
       
     See discussion on operating leases in the  Off-Balance Sheet Commitments 
section below for additional information. 

(2)  
       
     Developer/licensor commitments include $34 million of commitments to
developers or licensors that have been recorded in current and long-term liabilities and a
corresponding amount in current and long-term assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance
Sheets as of December 31, 2005 because the developer or licensor does not have any performance
obligations to us. 

The lease commitments disclosed above include contractual rental commitments of $23 million under
real estate leases for unutilized office space due to our restructuring activities. These amounts,
net of estimated future sub-lease income, were expensed in the periods of the related restructuring
and are included in our accrued and other liabilities reported on our Condensed Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005. See Note 5 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements.

The
commitments disclosed above do not include our JAMDAT acquisition commitment. See below.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS  

Lease Commitments 

We lease certain of our current facilities and certain equipment under non-cancelable operating
lease agreements. We are required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for
certain of our facilities and will be required to pay any increases over the base year of these
expenses on the remainder of our facilities.

In February 1995, we entered into a build-to-suit lease with a third party for our headquarters
facility in Redwood City, California, which was refinanced with Keybank National Association in
July 2001 and expires in July 2006. We accounted for this arrangement as an operating lease in
accordance with SFAS No. 13,   Accounting for Leases  , as amended. Existing campus facilities
developed in phase one comprise a total of 350,000 square feet and provide space for sales,
marketing, administration and research and development functions. We have an option to purchase the
property (land and facilities) for a maximum of $145 million or, at the end of the lease, to
arrange for (i) an extension of the lease or (ii) sale of the property to a third party while we
retain an obligation to the owner for approximately 90 percent of the difference between the sale
price and the guaranteed residual value of up to $129 million if the sales price is less than this
amount, subject to certain provisions of the lease.

In December 2000, we entered into a second build-to-suit lease with Keybank National Association
for a five and one-half year term beginning December 2000 to expand our Redwood City, California
headquarters facilities and develop adjacent property adding approximately 310,000 square feet to
our campus. Construction was completed in June 2002. We accounted for this arrangement as an
operating lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, as amended. The facilities provide space for sales,
marketing, administration and research and development functions. We have an option to purchase the
property for a maximum of $130 million or, at the end of the lease, to arrange for (i) an extension
of the lease or (ii) sale of the property to a third party while we retain an obligation to the
owner for approximately 90 percent of the difference between the sale price and the guaranteed
residual value of up to $119 million if the sales price is less than this amount, subject to
certain provisions of the lease.

We believe the estimated fair values of both properties under these operating leases are in excess
of their respective guaranteed residual values as of December 31, 2005.

For the two lease agreements with Keybank National Association, as described above, the lease rates
are based upon the LIBOR plus a margin and require us to maintain certain financial covenants as
shown below, all of which we were in compliance with as of December 31, 2005.

43

Table of Contents   

As our two lease agreements with Keybank National Association are scheduled to expire in June 2006
and July 2006, we currently are evaluating whether to extend the leases, purchase the properties
under lease, or identify a third-party buyer for the properties when the leases expire. We have not
yet determined the course of action we will take. See the  Liquidity and Capital Resources  section
above for additional information.

Acquisition of JAMDAT 

In December 2005, we entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire JAMDAT Mobile Inc., a
global publisher of wireless games and other wireless entertainment applications. We will pay $27 per share in cash in exchange for each share of JAMDAT common stock
and assume outstanding stock options for a total purchase price of approximately $680 million, plus
transaction costs. This acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval
by JAMDAT s stockholders and regulatory approvals, and is expected to close during our fourth
quarter of fiscal 2006.

Litigation 

On July 29, 2004, a class action lawsuit,  Kirschenbaum v. Electronic Arts Inc. , was filed against
us in Superior Court in San Mateo, California, alleging that we improperly classified  Image
Production Employees  in California as exempt employees. On October 17, 2005, the court granted
its preliminary approval of a settlement pursuant to which we agreed to make a lump sum payment of
$15.6 million, which we paid to a third-party administrator during the three months ended December
31, 2005, to cover (a) all claims allegedly suffered by the class members, (b) plaintiffs 
attorneys  fees, not to exceed 25% of the total settlement amount, (c) plaintiffs  costs and
expenses, (d) any incentive payments to the named plaintiffs that may be authorized by the court,
and (e) all costs of administration of the settlement. On January 27, 2006, the court granted its
final approval of the settlement.

On February 14, 2005, a second employment-related class action lawsuit,  Hasty v. Electronic Arts
Inc.,  was filed against us in Superior Court in San Mateo, California. The complaint alleges that
we improperly classified  Engineers  in California as exempt employees and seeks injunctive relief,
unspecified monetary damages, interest and attorneys  fees. On or about March 16, 2005, we received
a first amended complaint, which contains the same material allegations as the original complaint.
We answered the first amended complaint on April 20, 2005.

On March 24, 2005, a class action lawsuit was filed against us and certain of our officers and
directors. The complaint, which asserts claims under Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 based on allegedly false and misleading statements, was filed in the United
States District Court, Northern District of California, by an individual purporting to represent a
class of purchasers of EA common stock. Additional class action lawsuits were filed in the same
court by other individuals asserting the same claims against us. On May 9, 2005, the court
consolidated the complaints, and on January 26, 2006, the court dismissed the consolidated
complaint with prejudice. Separately, there are two shareholder derivative actions pending in the
Superior Court, San Mateo County, and one shareholder derivative action pending in the United
States District Court, Northern District of California, all of which assert claims based on
substantially the same factual allegations as set forth in the federal securities class action. We
have not yet responded to any of the derivative action complaints.

In addition, we are subject to other claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of
business. Our management considers that any liability from any reasonably foreseeable disposition
of such other claims and litigation, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.

Director Indemnity Agreements 

We have entered into indemnification agreements with the members of our Board of Directors at the
time they join the Board to indemnify them to the extent permitted by law against any and all
liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the directors as a
result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the
directors are sued as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors.

44

Table of Contents   

RISK FACTORS  

Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial
performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and
financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our
expectations and the market value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed
below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently
known to us or that we currently do not believe are material that may harm our business and
financial performance.

Our business is highly dependent on the success, timely release and availability of new video game
platforms, on the continued availability of existing video game platforms, as well as our ability
to develop commercially successful products for these platforms.  

We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms
manufactured by third parties, such as Sony s PlayStation 2 and Microsoft s Xbox. The success of
our business is driven in large part by the availability of an adequate supply of
current-generation video game platforms, the timely release, adequate supply, and success of new
video game hardware systems, our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be most
successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop commercially successful products for
these platforms. We must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well
in advance of the anticipated introduction of a new platform. A new platform for which we are
developing products may be delayed, may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than
anticipated. If the platforms for which we are developing products are not released when
anticipated, are not available in adequate amounts to meet consumer demand, or do not attain wide
market acceptance, our revenue will suffer, we may be unable to fully recover the resources we have
committed, and our financial performance will be harmed.

Our industry is cyclical and has entered a transition period heading into the next cycle. During
the transition, we expect our costs to increase, we may experience a decline in sales as consumers
anticipate and adopt next-generation products and our operating results may suffer and become more
difficult to predict.  

Video game platforms have historically had a life cycle of four to six years, which causes the
video game software market to be cyclical as well. Sony s PlayStation 2 was introduced in 2000 and
Microsoft s Xbox and the Nintendo GameCube were introduced in 2001. Microsoft released the Xbox360
in November 2005, and over the course of the next twelve months, we expect Sony and Nintendo to
introduce new video game players into the market as well (so-called  next-generation platforms ).
As a result, we believe that the interactive entertainment industry has entered into a transition
stage leading into the next cycle. During this transition, we intend to continue developing and
marketing new titles for current-generation video game platforms while we also make significant
investments developing products for the next-generation platforms. We have incurred and expect to
continue to incur increased costs during the transition to next-generation platforms, which are not
likely to be offset in the near future. Moreover, we expect development costs for next-generation
video games to be greater on a per-title basis than development costs for current-generation video
games.

We also expect that, as the current generation of platforms reaches the end of its cycle and
next-generation platforms are introduced into the market, sales of video games for
current-generation platforms will decline as consumers replace their current-generation platforms
with next-generation platforms, or defer game software purchases until they are able to purchase a
next-generation platform. This decline in current-generation product sales may not be offset by
increased sales of products for the new platforms. For example, following the launch of Sony s
PlayStation 2 platform, we experienced a significant decline in revenue from sales of products for
Sony s older PlayStation game console, which was not immediately offset by revenue generated from
sales of products for the PlayStation 2. If the increased costs we have incurred and expect to
continue to incur are not offset during the transition, our operating results will suffer and our
financial position will be harmed. In addition, during the transition, we expect our operating
results to be more volatile and difficult to predict, which could cause our stock price to
fluctuate significantly.

Our platform licensors set the royalty rates and other fees that we must pay to publish games for
their platforms, and therefore have significant influence on our costs. If one or more of the
platform licensors adopt a different fee structure for future game consoles or we are unable to
obtain such licenses, our profitability will be materially impacted.  

In November 2005, Microsoft released the Xbox 360 and, over the course of the next twelve months,
we expect Sony and Nintendo to introduce new video game players into the market in various parts of
the world. In order to publish products for a

45

Table of Contents   

new video game player, we must take a license from the platform licensor, which gives the platform
licensor the opportunity to set the fee structure that we must pay in order to publish games for
that platform.

Similarly, certain platform licensors have retained the flexibility to change their fee structures
for online gameplay and features for their consoles. The control that platform licensors have over
the fee structures for their future platforms and online access makes it difficult for us to
predict our costs and profitability in the medium to long term. It is also possible that platform
licensors may choose not to renew our licenses. Because publishing products for video game consoles
is the largest portion of our business, any increase in fee structures or failure to secure a
license relationship would significantly harm our ability to generate revenues and/or profits.

If we do not consistently meet our product development schedules, our operating results will be
adversely affected.  

Our business is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of consumer demand, and a significant
percentage of our revenue, occurring in the December quarter. In addition, we seek to release many
of our products in conjunction with specific events, such as the release of a related movie or the
beginning of a sports season or major sporting event. If we miss these key selling periods for any
reason, including product delays or delayed introduction of a new platform for which we have
developed products, our sales will suffer disproportionately. Our ability to meet product
development schedules is affected by a number of factors, including the creative processes
involved, the coordination of large and sometimes geographically dispersed development teams
required by the increasing complexity of our products, and the need to refine and tune our products
prior to their release. We have in the past experienced development delays for several of our
products. Failure to meet anticipated production or  go live  schedules may cause a shortfall in
our revenue and profitability and cause our operating results to be materially different from
expectations.

Our business is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, any of which
could significantly harm our operating results.  

Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment industry,
many of which are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our operating results
and include: the popularity, price and timing of our games and the platforms on which they are
played; economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in
consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and
critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily
be predicted.

If the average price of current-generation titles continues to decline, our operating results will
suffer.  

As a result of a more value-oriented consumer base, a greater number of current-generation titles
being published, and significant pricing pressure from our competitors, we have experienced a
decrease in the average price of our titles for current-generation platforms. Although we believe
that a few of the most popular current-generation titles will continue to be launched at premium
price points, as the interactive entertainment industry transitions to next-generation platforms,
we expect there to be fewer current-generation titles able to command premium price points, and we
expect that even these titles will be subject to price reductions at an earlier point in their
sales cycle than we have seen in prior years. We expect the average price of current-generation
titles to continue to decline, which will have a negative effect on our margins and operating
results.

Technology changes rapidly in our business and if we fail to anticipate or successfully implement
new technologies, the quality, timeliness and competitiveness of our products and services will
suffer.  

Rapid technology changes in our industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance,
which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our products and
services competitive in the market. Therefore, we usually start our product development with a
range of technical development goals that we hope to be able to achieve. We may not be able to
achieve these goals, or our competition may be able to achieve them more quickly than we can. In
either case, our products and services may be technologically inferior to our competitors , less
appealing to consumers, or both. If we cannot achieve our technology goals within the original
development schedule of our products and services, then we may delay their release until these
technology goals can be achieved, which may delay or reduce revenue and increase our development
expenses. Alternatively, we may increase the resources employed in research and development in an
attempt to accelerate our development of new technologies, either to preserve our product or
service launch schedule or to keep up with our competition, which would increase our development
expenses.

46

Table of Contents   

Our business is intensely competitive and  hit  driven. If we do not continue to deliver  hit 
products or if consumers prefer our competitors  products over our own, our operating results could
suffer.  

Competition in our industry is intense and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge. While
many new products are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of  hit  titles accounts
for a significant portion of total net revenue in our industry. Hit products published by our
competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause our
product sales to fall below our expectations. If our competitors develop more successful products,
offer competitive products at lower price points, or if we do not continue to develop consistently
high-quality and well-received products, our revenue, margins, and profitability will decline.

If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to intellectual property, we will publish fewer
hit titles and our revenue, profitability and cash flows will decline. Competition for these
licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs.  

Many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. For
example, our EA SPORTS products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players 
associations. Similarly, many of our other hit franchises, such as James Bond, Harry Potter and
Lord of the Rings, are based on key film and literary licenses. Competition for these licenses is
intense. If we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses with significant
commercial value, our revenues and profitability will decline significantly. Competition for these
licenses may also drive up the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor,
which could significantly increase our costs.

If patent claims continue to be asserted against us, we may be unable to sustain our current
business models or profits.  

Many patents have been issued that may apply to widely-used game technologies. Additionally,
infringement claims under many recently issued patents are now being asserted against Internet
implementations of existing games. Several such claims have been asserted against us. Such claims
can harm our business. We incur substantial expenses in evaluating and defending against such
claims, regardless of the merits of the claims. In the event that there is a determination that we
have infringed a third-party patent, we could incur significant monetary liability and be prevented
from using the rights in the future, which could negatively impact our operating results.

Other intellectual property claims may increase our product costs or require us to cease selling
affected products.  

Many of our products include extremely realistic graphical images, and we expect that as technology
continues to advance, images will become even more realistic. Some of the images and other content
are based on real-world examples that may inadvertently infringe upon the intellectual property
rights of others. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our products
do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is possible that third parties still
may claim infringement. From time to time, we receive communications from third parties regarding
such claims. Existing or future infringement claims against us, whether valid or not, may be time
consuming and expensive to defend. Such claims or litigations could require us to stop selling the
affected products, redesign those products to avoid infringement, or obtain a license, all of which
would be costly and harm our business.

From time to time we may become involved in other litigation which could adversely affect us.  

We are currently, and from time to time in the future may become, subject to other claims and
litigation, which could be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. In
addition, the outcome of any claims or litigation may be difficult to predict and could have a
material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For further
information regarding certain claims and litigation in which we are currently involved, see  Part
II   Item 1. Legal Proceedings  below.

Our business, our products and our distribution are subject to increasing regulation of content,
consumer privacy, distribution and online delivery in the key territories in which we conduct
business. If we do not successfully respond to these regulations, our business may suffer.  

Legislation is continually being introduced that may affect both the content of our products and
their distribution. For example, privacy laws in the United States and Europe impose various
restrictions on our web sites. Those rules vary by territory although the Internet recognizes no
geographical boundaries. Other countries, such as Germany, have adopted laws regulating content

47

Table of Contents   

both in packaged goods and those transmitted over the Internet that are stricter than current
United States laws. In the United States, the federal and several state governments are continually
considering content restrictions on products such as ours, as well as restrictions on distribution
of such products. For example, recent legislation has been adopted in several states, and could be
proposed at the federal level, that prohibits the sale of certain games (e.g., violent games or
those with  M  or  AO  ratings) to minors. Any one or more of these factors could harm our business
by limiting the products we are able to offer to our customers, by limiting the size of the
potential market for our products, and by requiring additional differentiation between products for
different territories to address varying regulations. This additional product differentiation could
be costly.

If one or more of our titles were found to contain hidden, objectionable content, our business
could suffer.  

Throughout the history of our industry, many video games have been designed to include certain
hidden content and gameplay features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat codes or
other technological means that are intended to enhance the gameplay experience. However, in several
cases, the hidden content or feature was included in the game by an employee who was not authorized
to do so or by an outside developer without the knowledge of the publisher. From time to time, some
hidden content and features have contained profanity, graphic violence and sexually explicit or
other objectionable material. In a few cases, the Entertainment Software Ratings Board ( ESRB ) has
reacted to discoveries of hidden content and features by reviewing the rating that was originally
assigned to the product, requiring the publisher to change the game packaging and/or fining the
publisher. Retailers have on occasion reacted to the discovery of such hidden content by pulling
these games from their shelves, refusing to sell them, and demanding that their publishers accept
them as product returns. Likewise, consumers have reacted to the revelation of hidden content by
refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games they ve already purchased, and
refraining from buying other games published by the company whose game contained the objectionable
material.

We have implemented preventative measures designed to reduce the possibility of hidden,
objectionable content from appearing in the video games we publish. Nonetheless, these preventative
measures are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding, and reasonable resource
constraints. If a video game we published were found to contain hidden, objectionable content, the
ESRB could demand that we recall a game and change its packaging to reflect a revised rating,
retailers could refuse to sell it and demand we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns
from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. This
could have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. In
addition, our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other video games we sell. If
any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be
significantly harmed.

If we do not continue to attract and retain key personnel, we will be unable to effectively conduct
our business. In addition, compensation-related changes in accounting requirements, as well as
evolving legal and operational factors, could have a significant impact on our expenses and
operating results.  

The market for technical, creative, marketing and other personnel essential to the development and
marketing of our products and management of our businesses is extremely competitive. Our leading
position within the interactive entertainment industry makes us a prime target for recruiting of
executives and key creative talent. If we cannot successfully recruit and retain the employees we
need, or replace key employees following their departure, our ability to develop and manage our
businesses will be impaired.

We annually review and evaluate with the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors the
compensation and benefits that we offer our employees to ensure that we are able to attract and
retain our talent. Within our regular review, we have considered recent changes in the accounting
treatment of stock options, the competitive market for technical, creative, marketing and other
personnel, and the evolving nature of job functions within our studios, marketing organizations and
other areas of the business. Any changes we make to our compensation programs could result in
increased expenses and have a significant impact on our operating results.

Our platform licensors are our chief competitors and frequently control the manufacturing of and/or
access to our video game products. If they do not approve our products, we will be unable to ship
to our customers.  

Our agreements with hardware licensors (such as Sony for the PlayStation 2, Microsoft for the Xbox
and Nintendo for the Nintendo GameCube) typically give significant control to the licensor over the
approval and manufacturing of our products, which could, in certain circumstances, leave us unable
to get our products approved, manufactured and shipped to customers. These hardware licensors are
also our chief competitors. In most events, control of the approval and manufacturing process by

48

Table of Contents   

the platform licensors increases both our manufacturing lead times and costs as compared to those
we can achieve independently. While we believe that our relationships with our hardware licensors
are currently good, the potential for these licensors to delay or refuse to approve or manufacture
our products exists. Such occurrences would harm our business and our financial performance.

We also require compatibility code and the consent of Microsoft and Sony in order to include online
capabilities in our products for their respective platforms. As online capabilities for video game
platforms become more significant, Microsoft and Sony could restrict our ability to provide online
capabilities for our console platform products. If Microsoft or Sony refused to approve our
products with online capabilities or significantly impacted the financial terms on which these
services are offered to our customers, our business could be harmed.

Our international net revenue is subject to currency fluctuations.  

For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, international net revenue comprised 46 percent of our
total net revenue. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, international net revenue comprised 47
percent of our total net revenue. We expect foreign sales to continue to account for a significant
portion of our total net revenue. Such sales are subject to unexpected regulatory requirements,
tariffs and other barriers. Additionally, foreign sales are primarily made in local currencies,
which may fluctuate against the U.S. dollar. While we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to
mitigate some foreign currency risk associated with foreign currency denominated assets and
liabilities (primarily certain intercompany receivables and payables) and from time to time,
foreign currency option contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions (primarily
related to a portion of the revenue generated by our operational subsidiaries), our results of
operations, including our reported net revenue and net income, and financial condition would be
adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations, particularly the Euro and Pound
Sterling.

Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our
operating results and financial condition.  

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in
the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the
ultimate tax determination is uncertain.

We are also required to estimate what our taxes will be in the future. Although we believe our tax
estimates are reasonable, the estimate process is inherently uncertain, and our estimates are not
binding on tax authorities. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in our
business, including the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in
the elections we make, changes in applicable tax laws as well as other factors. Further, our tax
determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits
could adversely affect our income tax provision. Should our ultimate tax liability exceed our
estimates, our income tax provision and net income could be materially affected.

We are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use,
value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and
various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect
to these non-income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations,
changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on our
operating results and financial condition.

Changes in our worldwide operating structure could have adverse tax consequences.  

As we expand our international operations and implement changes to our operating structure or
undertake intercompany transactions in response to changing tax laws, expiring rulings, and our
current and anticipated business and operational requirements, our tax expense could increase. For
example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we incurred additional income taxes resulting from
certain intercompany transactions.

In addition, while our current intention is to invest indefinitely our undistributed foreign
earnings offshore, we are in the process of evaluating whether we will change our intentions
regarding a portion of our foreign earnings and take advantage of the repatriation provision of the
Jobs Act, and if so, the amount that we would intend to repatriate. We may decide not to take
advantage of the new law at all. In addition to not having made a decision to repatriate any
foreign earnings, we are not yet in a

49

Table of Contents   

position to determine the impact of a qualifying repatriation, should we choose to make one, on our
income tax expense for fiscal 2006.

Our reported financial results could be adversely affected by changes in financial accounting
standards or by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it
evolves.  

As a result of the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the review of accounting policies by the
SEC and national and international accounting standards bodies, the frequency of accounting policy
changes may accelerate. For example, the FASB has issued a new standard that will require us to
adopt a different method of determining and accounting for the compensation expense of our employee
stock options. This and other possible changes to accounting standards, could adversely affect our
reported results of operations although not necessarily our cash flows. Further, accounting
policies affecting software revenue recognition have been the subject of frequent interpretations,
which could significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products. As we
enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or
future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for
revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily
on our cash flows.

The majority of our sales are made to a relatively small number of key customers. If these
customers reduce their purchases of our products or become unable to pay for them, our business
could be harmed.  

In the quarter ended December 31, 2005, over 70 percent of our U.S. sales were made to five key
customers. In Europe, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 32 percent of our sales in
that territory during the nine months ended December 31, 2005. Worldwide, we had direct sales to
one customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., which represented approximately 13 percent of total net
revenue in the nine months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, we believe it likely that, had
GameStop Corp. s acquisition of Electronics Boutique Holdings Corp. occurred on April 1, 2005, the
combined company would have represented greater than 10 percent of total net revenue for the nine
months ended December 31, 2005. Though our products are available to consumers through a variety of
retailers, the concentration of our sales in one, or a few, large customers could lead to a
short-term disruption in our sales if one or more of these customers significantly reduced their
purchases or ceased to carry our products, and could make us more vulnerable to collection risk if
one or more of these large customers became unable to pay for our products. Additionally, our
receivables from these large customers increase significantly in the December quarter as they stock
up for the holiday selling season. Also, having such a large portion of our total net revenue
concentrated in a few customers reduces our negotiating leverage with these customers.

Acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties,
dilution to our investors and other negative consequences.  

We have engaged in, evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential
strategic transactions, including (1) acquisitions of companies, businesses, intellectual
properties, and other assets, and (2) investments in new interactive entertainment businesses (for
example, online and mobile games). Any of these strategic transactions could be material to our
financial condition and results of operations. Although we regularly search for opportunities to
engage in strategic transactions, we may not be successful in identifying suitable opportunities.
We may not be able to consummate potential acquisitions or investments or an acquisition or
investment may not enhance our business or may decrease rather than increase our earnings. In
addition, the process of integrating an acquired company or business, or successfully exploiting
acquired intellectual property or other assets, could divert a significant amount of our
management s time and focus and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures.
Additional risks we face include:

The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a
public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls,
procedures and policies, 

Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or
business into our organization, 

Retaining key employees from the businesses we acquire, 

The need to integrate an acquired company s accounting, management information, human
resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and 

50

Table of Contents   

To the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the United States, we
face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different
cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory
risks associated with specific countries. 

Future acquisitions and investments could involve the issuance of our equity securities,
potentially diluting our existing stockholders, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or
amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition.
Our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or
investments.

Our products are subject to the threat of piracy by a variety of organizations and individuals. If
we are not successful in combating and preventing piracy, our sales and profitability could be
harmed significantly.  

In many countries around the world, more pirated copies of our products are sold than legitimate
copies. Though we believe piracy has not had a material impact on our operating results to date,
highly organized pirate operations have been expanding globally. In addition, the proliferation of
technology designed to circumvent the protection measures we use in our products, the availability
of broadband access to the Internet, the ability to download pirated copies of our games from
various Internet sites, and the widespread proliferation of Internet cafes using pirated copies of
our products, all have contributed to ongoing and expanding piracy. Though we take steps to make
the unauthorized copying and distribution of our products more difficult, as do the manufacturers
of consoles on which our games are played, neither our efforts nor those of the console
manufacturers may be successful in controlling the piracy of our products. This could have a
negative effect on our growth and profitability in the future.

Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly.  

The market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be,
subject to significant fluctuations. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us
(including those discussed in the risk factors above as well as others not currently known to us or
that we currently do not believe are material), to changes in securities analysts  earnings
estimates, to our results falling below the expectations of analysts and investors, to factors
affecting the computer, software, Internet, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to
national or international economic conditions.

51

Table of Contents   

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

MARKET RISK   

We are exposed to various market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates,
interest rates, and market prices. Market risk is the potential loss arising from changes in market
rates and market prices. We employ established policies and practices to manage these risks.
Foreign currency option and foreign exchange forward contracts are used to either hedge anticipated
exposures or mitigate some existing exposures subject to market risk. We do not enter into
derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Interest rate risk
is the potential loss arising from changes in interest rates. We do not consider our cash and cash
equivalents to be exposed to significant interest rate risk because our portfolio consists of
highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  
From time to time, we hedge some of our foreign currency risk related to forecasted
foreign-currency-denominated sales and expense transactions by purchasing option contracts that
generally have maturities of 15 months or less. These transactions are designated and qualify as
cash flow hedges. The derivative assets associated with our hedging activities are recorded at fair
value in other current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The effective portion
of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value is initially reported as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income, net of any tax effects, in stockholders  equity and
subsequently reclassified into net revenue or operating expenses in the period when the forecasted
transaction actually occurs. The ineffective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in
fair value is reported each period in interest and other income, net in the Condensed Consolidated
Statements of Operations. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of
currency exchange rate movements in revenue and operating expenses. The fair value of our foreign
currency option contracts purchased and included in other current assets was $1 million as of
December 31, 2005.

We utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk associated with
foreign-currency-denominated assets and liabilities, primarily intercompany receivables and
payables. The forward contracts generally have a contractual term of approximately one month and
are transacted near month-end. Therefore, the fair value of the forward contracts generally is not
significant at each month-end. Our foreign exchange forward contracts are not designated as hedging
instruments under SFAS No. 133 and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the
contracts are reported as other current assets or other current liabilities in the Condensed
Consolidated Balance Sheets, and gains and losses from changes in fair value are reported in
interest and other income, net, in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. The gains
and losses on these forward contracts generally offset the gains and losses on the underlying
foreign-currency-denominated assets and liabilities.

As of December 31, 2005, we had foreign exchange contracts to purchase and sell approximately $659
million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $630 million represents contracts to sell foreign
currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $19 million to sell foreign currencies in exchange for
British Pounds, and $10 million to purchase foreign currency in exchange for U.S. dollars. The fair
value of our forward contracts was immaterial as of December 31, 2005.

The counterparties to these forward and option contracts are creditworthy multinational commercial
banks. The risks of counterparty nonperformance associated with these contracts are not considered
to be material.

Notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no
assurances that our mitigating activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated
with foreign currency fluctuations. For example, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange
rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would result in a potential loss in fair value of our
option contracts of $1 million in either scenario, as of December 31, 2005. In addition, a
hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would
result in potential losses on our forward contracts of $65 million and $97 million, respectively,
as of December 31, 2005. This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel adverse shift in foreign
currency exchange rates, which do not always move in the same direction. Actual results may differ
materially.

Interest Rate Risk  
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our short-term
investment portfolio. We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio
generally consisting of debt instruments of high credit quality and relatively short maturities.
Additionally, the contractual terms of the securities do not permit the issuer to call, prepay or
otherwise settle the securities at prices less than the stated par value of the securities. Our
investments are held for purposes other than trading. Also, we do not use derivative financial
instruments or leverage in our short-term investment portfolio.

52

Table of Contents   

As of December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005, our short-term investments were classified as
available-for-sale and, consequently, recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses
resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income, net of any tax effects, in stockholders  equity. Our portfolio of short-term
investments consisted of the following investment categories, summarized by fair value as of
December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005 (in millions):

Notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risks, there can be no assurance that we will
be adequately protected against risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. At any time, a
sharp rise in interest rates could have a significant adverse impact on the fair value of our
investment portfolio. We may suffer losses of principal if we sell securities that have experienced
a decline in market value. The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value in
our short-term investment portfolio as of December 31, 2005, arising from selected potential
changes in interest rates. The modeling technique estimates the change in fair value from immediate
hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( BPS ), 100 BPS
and 150 BPS. Actual results may differ materially.

Market Price Risk  
The values of our equity investments in publicly traded companies are subject to market price
volatility. As of December 31, 2005, our marketable equity securities were classified as
available-for-sale and, consequently, were recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at
fair market value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of
accumulated other comprehensive income, net of any tax effects, in stockholders  equity. The fair
value of our marketable equity securities was $167 million and $140 million as of December 31, 2005
and March 31, 2005, respectively.

At any time, a sharp decrease in market prices in our investments in marketable equity securities
could have a significant adverse impact on the fair value of our investments. The following table
presents the hypothetical changes in the fair value of our marketable equity securities as of
December 31, 2005, arising from changes in market prices of plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent
and 75 percent.

53

Table of Contents   

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 

Definition and limitations of disclosure controls.  Our disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
 Exchange Act )) are controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act, such as this report, is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules
and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is
accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial and Administrative Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Our management evaluates these controls and procedures on an ongoing basis.

There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and
procedures. These limitations include the possibility of human error, the circumvention or
overriding of the controls and procedures and reasonable resource constraints. In addition, because
we have designed our system of controls based on certain assumptions, which we believe are
reasonable, about the likelihood of future events, our system of controls may not achieve its
desired purpose under all possible future conditions. Accordingly, our disclosure controls and
procedures provide reasonable assurance, but not absolute assurance, of achieving their objectives.

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.  Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
and Administrative Officer, after evaluating the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures, believe that as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure
controls and procedures were effective in providing the requisite reasonable assurance that
material information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
the SEC s rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial and Administrative Officer, as appropriate to allow
timely decisions regarding the required disclosure.

Changes in internal controls.  During our last fiscal quarter, no changes occurred in our internal
control over financial reporting that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

54

Table of Contents   

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1. Legal Proceedings 

On July 29, 2004, a class action lawsuit,  Kirschenbaum v. Electronic Arts Inc. , was filed
against us in Superior Court in San Mateo, California, alleging that we improperly classified
 Image Production Employees  in California as exempt employees. On October 17, 2005, the
court granted its preliminary approval of a settlement pursuant to which we agreed to make a
lump sum payment of $15.6 million, which we paid to a third-party administrator during the
three months ended December 31, 2005, to cover (a) all claims allegedly suffered by the class
members, (b) plaintiffs  attorneys  fees, not to exceed 25% of the total settlement amount,
(c) plaintiffs  costs and expenses, (d) any incentive payments to the named plaintiffs that
may be authorized by the court, and (e) all costs of administration of the settlement. On
January 27, 2006, the court granted its final approval of the settlement.

On February 14, 2005, a second employment-related class action lawsuit,  Hasty v. Electronic
Arts Inc.,  was filed against us in Superior Court in San Mateo, California. The complaint
alleges that we improperly classified  Engineers  in California as exempt employees and seeks
injunctive relief, unspecified monetary damages, interest and attorneys  fees. On or about
March 16, 2005, we received a first amended complaint, which contains the same material
allegations as the original complaint. We answered the first amended complaint on April 20,
2005.

On March 24, 2005, a class action lawsuit was filed against us and certain of our officers
and directors. The complaint, which asserts claims under Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 based on allegedly false and misleading statements, was filed
in the United States District Court, Northern District of California, by an individual
purporting to represent a class of purchasers of EA common stock. Additional class action
lawsuits were filed in the same court by other individuals asserting the same claims against
us. On May 9, 2005, the court consolidated the complaints, and on January 26, 2006, the court
dismissed the consolidated complaint with prejudice. Separately, there are two shareholder
derivative actions pending in the Superior Court, San Mateo County, and one shareholder
derivative action pending in the United States District Court, Northern District of
California, all of which assert claims based on substantially the same factual allegations as
set forth in the federal securities class action. We have not yet responded to any of the
derivative action complaints.

In addition, we are subject to other claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of
business. Our management considers that any liability from any reasonably foreseeable
disposition of such other claims and litigation, individually or in the aggregate, would not
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

Item 5. Other Information 

On
February 7, 2006, we entered into an Agreement for Underlease with The Standard Life
Assurance Company, pursuant to which we agreed to lease 94,782 square feet of facilities space in
Guildford, United Kingdom, subject to the completion of certain renovations to the property by The
Standard Life Assurance Company. Upon completion of the renovations, which we anticipate will be
on or about June 1, 2006, we will enter into a 10-year lease and take possession of the facilities.
We will not be obligated to pay any rent during the first 24 months of the lease. Thereafter, we
will be obligated to pay rent at a rate of  2,193,252 per year during the third, fourth and fifth
years of the lease. Beginning in the sixth year, and continuing through the end of the lease, we
will pay rent at a rate of  2,512,211 per year. We intend to use the facilities primarily as
studio space for the development of our games.

55

Table of Contents   

Item 6. Exhibits 

The following exhibits (other than exhibits 32.1 and 32.2, which are furnished with
this report) are filed as part of this report: 

Exhibit 

Number  
       
      Title  

2.1

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Electronic Arts Inc.,
EArts(Delaware), Inc. and JAMDAT Mobile Inc. dated December 8, 2005.*(1) 

10.1

First amendment to lease, dated December 13, 2005, by and between
Liberty Property Limited Partnership, a Pennsylvania limited partnership and
Electronic Arts   Tiburon, a Florida corporation f/k/a Tiburon Entertainment,
Inc. 

10.2

Agreement for Underlease relating to Onslow House, Guildford,
Surrey, dated 7 February 2006, by and between The Standard Life Assurance Company and
Electronic Arts Limited and Electronic Arts Inc. 

15.1

Awareness Letter of KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

31.1

Certification of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
Rule 13a-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

31.2

Certification of Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and
Administrative Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Additional exhibits furnished with this report: 

32.1

Certification of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
Rule 13a-14(b) of the Exchange Act and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

32.2

Certification of Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and
Administrative Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) of the Exchange Act and 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002. 

* Certain schedules have been omitted and the Company agrees to furnish to the
Commission supplementally a copy of any omitted schedules upon request. 

(1) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed with Registrant s Current Report on
Form 8-K/A, filed December 12, 2005. 

56

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURE 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. 
(Registrant) 

/s/ Warren C. Jenson

DATED:   
     WARREN C. JENSON  

February 7, 2006 
     Executive Vice President,
Chief Financial and Administrative Officer  

57

Table of Contents   

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. 
FORM 10-Q 
FOR THE PERIOD ENDED December 31, 2005 

EXHIBIT INDEX 

EXHIBIT 

NUMBER  
       
      EXHIBIT TITLE  

2.1

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Electronic Arts Inc.,
EArts(Delaware), Inc. and JAMDAT Mobile Inc. dated December 8, 2005.*(1) 

10.1

First amendment to lease, dated December 13, 2005, by and between Liberty
Property Limited Partnership, a Pennsylvania limited partnership and
Electronic Arts   Tiburon, a Florida corporation f/k/a Tiburon
Entertainment, Inc. 

10.2

Agreement for Underlease relating to Onslow House, Guildford, Surrey, dated
7 February 2006, by and between The Standard Life Assurance Company and Electronic
Arts Limited and Electronic Arts Inc. 

15.1

Awareness Letter of KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

31.1

Certification of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule
13a-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

31.2

Certification of Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and
Administrative Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as
adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Additional exhibits furnished with this report: 

32.1

Certification of Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) of the
Exchange Act and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

32.2

Certification of Executive Vice President, Chief
Financial and Administrative Officer pursuant to
Rule 13a-14(b) of the Exchange Act and 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

* Certain schedules have been omitted and the Company agrees to furnish to the Commission
supplementally a copy of any omitted schedules upon request. 

(1) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed with Registrant s Current Report on Form
8-K/A, filed December 12, 2005. 

58

<EX-10.1>
 2
 f16210exv10w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.1

exv10w1 

Exhibit 10.1

FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE  

THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE  (the  Amendment ) is made this 13th day of December, 2005, by
and between  LIBERTY PROPERTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP , a Pennsylvania limited partnership ( Landlord )
and  ELECTRONIC ARTS-TIBURON , a Florida corporation f/k/a Tiburon Entertainment, Inc. ( Tenant ).

BACKGROUND   : 

A.      Landlord s predecessor in title, ASP WT, L.L.C., and Tenant entered into a Lease dated June
15, 2004 (the  Lease ), with a Lease Commencement Date of January 1, 2005, and an expiration date
of June 30, 2010, for 117,201 square feet (the  Original Premises ) in the office building known as
Maitland Summit Park I located at 1950 Summit Park Drive, Orlando, Florida 32810 ( Building I ).

B.      Landlord also is the owner of the office building known as Maitland Summit Park II located
at 1958 Summit Park Drive, Orlando, Florida 32810 ( Building II ).

C.      Tenant desires to lease 23,163 square feet on the 6th floor of Building II (the  Expansion
Premises ), which Expansion Premises are more particularly described and depicted on Exhibit  A 
attached hereto.

D.      Both parties desire to amend the Lease to incorporate the Expansion Premises and to provide
for certain other matters related thereto.

NOW, THEREFORE,  the parties hereto, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants
contained herein and in the Lease, and intending to be legally bound hereby, hereby agree as
follows:

1.        Recitals . The foregoing recitals and all exhibits attached hereto are true and
correct and are incorporated herein by this reference.

2.        Definitions and Schedules . Sections 1.1 and 1.2 of the Lease are hereby deleted in
their entirety and the following new Sections 1.1 and 1.2 are inserted in place and in lieu
thereof:

a. 
       
      Leased Premises  shall mean those suites/floors within both the
Original Premises (defined in Section 1.1(b) below) and the Expansion Premises
as described in Schedule 1. 

b. 
       
      Original Premises  shall mean those suites/floors within
Building I as described in Schedule 1. 

c. 
       
      Expansion Premises  shall mean those suites/floors in Building
II as described in Schedule 1. 

d. 
       
      Building  shall mean both Building I and Building II. 

e. 
       
      Building I  shall mean Maitland Summit Park I located at 1950
Summit Park Drive, Orlando, Florida 32810. 

f. 
       
      Building II  shall mean Maitland Summit Park II located at 1958
Summit Park Drive, Orlando, Florida 32810. 

g. 
       
      Project  shall mean both Building I and Building II, and the
parking facilities and the lots on which the said buildings are located. 

h. 
       
      Tenant s Building I Square Footage  shall mean 117,201 rentable
square feet;  Total Building I Square Footage  of Building I shall mean 128,240
rentable square feet. 

i. 
       
      Tenant s Building II Square Footage  shall mean 23,163 rentable
square feet;  Total Building II Square Footage  of Building II shall mean 128,934
rentable square feet. 

j. 
       
      Lease Commencement Date  shall mean January 1, 2005, which may
be adjusted pursuant to Section 4.2 of this Lease;  Lease Expiration Date  shall
mean June 30, 2010, which may be adjusted pursuant to Section 4.2 of this
Lease;  Lease Term  shall mean the period between Lease Commencement Date and
Lease Expiration Date. The term  Lease Commencement Date  shall mean the
Expansion Commencement Date (as defined in Section 3 below) wherever in this
Lease the context shall require. 

k. 
       
      Building I Base Rent  shall mean those amounts as set forth in
Section 12 hereof, plus applicable sales tax, if any; unless the options
described under Sections 12.3 or 12.4 are exercised. 

l. 
       
      Building II Base Rent  shall mean those amounts as set forth in
Section 12 hereof, plus applicable sales tax, if any, unless the options
described under Sections 12.4 or 12.5 are exercised. In addition to the
amounts owed under Section 12, Tenant shall pay to Landlord the cost of
electric power serving the Expansion Premises (which shall include but not be
limited to the electric power operating the HVAC system serving the Expansion
Premises). 

m. 
       
      Base Rent  shall mean Building I Base Rent and Building II Base
Rent combined. 

n. 
       
      Tenant s Building I Pro Rata Share  shall mean 91.4%. 

o. 
       
      Tenant s Building II Pro Rata Share  shall mean 17.97%.

-2-

p. 
       
      Tenant s Pro Rata Share  shall mean Tenant s Building I Pro Rata
Share and Tenant s Building II Pro Rata Share combined. 

q. 
       
      Base Year  shall mean: (i) the calendar year 2005 with respect
to the Original Premises, and (ii) the calendar year 2006 with respect to the
Expansion Premises. 

r. 
       
      Deposit  shall mean $-0-;  Prepaid Rent  shall mean $-0-, of which
$-0- represents the first monthly installment of Base Rent, and $-0- represents
the last monthly installment of Base Rent. 

s. 
       
      Permitted Purpose  shall mean general office use. 

t. 
       
      Authorized Number of Parking Spaces  shall mean: (i) with
respect to Building I and the Original Premises, a minimum of 484 unreserved
spaces at a rate of $-0- per space per month, and (ii) with respect to Building
II and the Expansion Premises, 4.5 parking spaces per 1,000 rentable square
feet unreserved parking spaces in the Building II parking structure (i.e., 103
spaces), at a rate of $-0- per space per month, provided however, of the 103
Building II parking spaces, Landlord shall provide 4 reserved parking spaces,
at no charge, at locations to be determined by Landlord in the Building II
parking structure. In addition, Tenant may use additional parking spaces in the
Building II parking structure in excess of the foregoing ratio without any
additional consideration, provided that Tenant s use of the same does not
interfere with the use of such parking by other tenants of Building II. Once
Landlord substantially completes construction of its next phase of development
at Maitland Summit Park, the foregoing right of the Tenant to use additional
parking within the Building II parking structure beyond the 4.5 parking spaces
per 1,000 rentable square feet shall terminate and expire  ( provided,
however, that during the construction period, Landlord may reduce such
additional parking, if necessary, to accommodate the construction ) . 

u. 
       
      Managing Agent  shall mean the Landlord. 

v. 
       
      Broker of Record  shall mean Liberty Property Trust, for
Landlord. 

w. 
       
      Cooperating Broker  shall mean Advantis Real Estate Services,
for Tenant. 

x. 
       
      Landlord s Mailing Address : 500 Chesterfield Parkway, Malvern,
PA 19355 

Copy to: 2400 Lake Orange Drive, Suite 110, Orlando, Florida 32738,
telephone: 407-447-1776, and fax: 407-888-3242. 

y. 
       
      Tenant s Mailing Address : 1950 Summit Park Drive, Orlando,
Florida 32810, telephone: 407-386-4000, and fax: 407-386-4555, with copy to 209

-3-

Redwood Shores Parkway, Redwood City, CA 94065, attn: Senior Director of
Facilities.

z. 
       
      Market Base Rent : shall mean market rents, Tenant
improvements, rent concessions for renewing tenants in similar Class A office
space in Maitland, Florida 

1.2  
       
       SCHEDULES AND ADDENDA   :  The schedules and addenda listed below are
incorporated into this Lease by reference unless lined out. The terms of schedules,
exhibits and typewritten addenda, if any, attached or added hereto shall control over
any inconsistent provisions in the paragraphs of this Lease. 

a. 
       
     Schedule 1: Description of Leased Premises and/or Floor Plans 

b. 
       
     Schedule 2: Rules and Regulations 

c. 
       
     Schedule 3: Utility Services 

d. 
       
     Schedule 4: Maintenance Services 

e. 
       
     Schedule 5: Parking for Building I and Original Premises 

f. 
       
     Schedule 6: Work Letter Agreement for Original Premises 

g. 
       
     Schedule 7: Certificate of Acceptance 

h. 
       
     Schedule 8: Guaranty 

i. 
       
     Schedule 9: Approved Tenant s General Contract, Architect and Engineer 

3.       Expansion Premises Commencement Date; Expansion Premises Termination Date . The
commencement date for Tenant s occupancy of the Expansion Premises and for the payment of Building
II Base Rent shall be that date which is the earlier of (i) the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy by the applicable governmental authority for the Tenant s Work described in Section 5
below, or (ii) subject to Section 5(a) below, 120 days after the Effective Date hereof (the
 Expansion Commencement Date ). The Expansion Premises termination date ( Expansion Termination
Date ) shall be fifty-four (54) full calendar months following the Expansion Commencement Date.

4.       Operating Costs . Landlord and Tenant hereby acknowledge and agree that the term
 Operating Costs  as used in this Lease shall mean those defined Operating Costs for Building I and
Building II, respectively. For purposes of calculating Tenant s Pro Rata Share of any Excess
Operating Costs for each of Building I and Building II, the defined Operating Costs for Building I
and the defined Operating Costs for Building II shall be calculated, treated, allocated and
assessed separately, such that Tenant is obligated to pay Tenant s Building I Pro Rata Share of any
Excess Operating Costs for Building I and Tenant s Building II Pro Rata Share of any Excess
Operating Costs for Building II. For the purposes of the calculation, assessment and payment of
any Excess Operating Costs pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Lease, the term  Building  as used
therein shall mean either Building I or Building II, as the case may be.

5.       Construction and Commencement of Possession for Expansion Premises . The parties
acknowledge and agree that Sections 4.1 and 4.2 of the Lease relate to and apply to the Original
Premises only. The following terms and conditions relate to the construction of improvements and
commencement of possession for the Expansion Premises:

-4-

(a)      Within fourteen (14) days of the Effective Date hereof, Landlord shall deliver full
control of the Expansion Premises to Tenant, to enable Tenant to perform the Tenant s Work (as
hereinafter defined). For each day later than fourteen (14) days after the Effective Date until
the delivery of full control of the Expansion Premises to Tenant as provided above, the 120 day
time period referenced in Section 3(ii) above shall be extended on a day-for-day basis. 
 Subject to the provisions hereof, Tenant shall cause the construction and installation of all
improvements to the Expansion Premises in accordance with the Plans and Specifications, as
hereinafter defined, and as necessary to permit Tenant to occupy same and conduct normal business
operations (such improvements being referred to herein as  Tenant s Work ). In connection with
Tenant s Work, Tenant will have a construction manager (the  Construction Manager ) who will serve
as Tenant s representative in communicating and dealing with Landlord in the implementation,
progress and completion of Tenant s Work. Landlord agrees to work cooperatively with the
Construction Manager, and all rights and obligations of the Tenant under this Section 5 may be
performed, exercised and/or satisfied by or on behalf of Tenant by the Construction Manager.

(b)      Within five  ( 5 )  days of the Effective Date of this Amendment, the parties shall have
mutually approved a space plan for the Expansion Premises. The space plan shall be acknowledged by
the parties in writing. Tenant shall then prepare detailed set of plans and specifications (the
 Plans and Specifications ), which shall be based on the mutually approved space plan. The Plans
and Specifications shall be prepared by Tenant s architect and
engineer  .   Attached hereto
as Schedule 9 and by this reference made a part hereof are the names of Tenant s general
contractor ,  architect and engineer for the Tenant s Work; Landlord hereby approves the general
contractor, architect and engineer described on Schedule 9 attached hereto.

(c)      Landlord has made no representations or warranties relating to the Expansion Premises;
Tenant accepts the Expansion Premises in its  as is  condition. Landlord assumes no responsibility
whatsoever, and shall not be liable, for the manufacturer s, architect s, or engineer s design or
performance of any structural, mechanical, electrical, or plumbing systems or equipment or any
other matter set forth in the Plans and Specifications or otherwise.

(d)      The Plans and Specifications shall be subject to Landlord s review and approval. Landlord
shall accept or notify Tenant of its objections to the Plans and Specifications within five (5)
business days after receipt thereof. In the event Landlord fails to either accept the Plans and
Specifications or notify Tenant of its objections to such Plans and Specifications within the
forgoing five (5) business days, then the Plans and Specifications shall be deemed approved by
Landlord. If the Plans and Specifications are not acceptable, Landlord shall notify Tenant in
writing of the reasons for such disapproval and required revisions and amendments thereto, and
Tenant shall have five (5) days after receipt of Landlord s notice thereafter to correct and revise
and submit amended Plans and Specifications to Landlord for consideration. In the event Landlord
and Tenant are unable, after discussing and negotiating in good faith, to agree on the Plans and
Specifications within thirty (30) days after the Effective Date hereof, then this Amendment shall
terminate and neither Landlord nor Tenant shall have any further obligations hereunder whatsoever.
Once Landlord approves the Plans and Specifications, Tenant shall, within five (5) days, provide
Landlord with one (1) set of the Plans and Specifications which shall be signed and dated by both
parties (and any changes to the Plans and Specifications shall be made only by written addendum
signed by both parties).

-5-

(e)      All inspections and approvals necessary and appropriate to complete Tenant s Work in
accordance with the Plans and Specifications and as necessary to obtain a certificate of use and
occupancy as hereinafter provided are the responsibility of Tenant and its general contractor.
Tenant shall arrange a meeting prior to the commencement of construction between Landlord, Tenant
and Tenant s contractors for the purpose of organizing and coordinating the completion of Tenant s
Work.

(f)      All of Tenant s Work shall be completed in a good and workmanlike manner and shall be in
conformity with the applicable building codes. Upon substantial completion of Tenant s Work,
Tenant shall furnish to Landlord:

(i)       a certificate of use and/or occupancy issued by the appropriate governmental authority and
other evidence satisfactory to Landlord that Tenant has obtained the governmental approvals
necessary to permit occupancy; and

(ii)       a notarized affidavit from Tenant s contractor(s) listing the amounts paid and stating
that all amounts due for work done and materials furnished in completing Tenant s Work have been
paid; and

(iii)      releases of lien from any subcontractor or material supplier that has given Landlord a
Notice to Owner pursuant to Florida law; and

(iv)       as built  drawings of the Expansion Premises, with a list and description of all work
performed by the contractors, subcontractors, and material suppliers.

(g)     Subject to Tenant s compliance with Section 5 above, Landlord will provide Tenant with an
allowance (the  Tenant Improvement Allowance ) against the cost of the improvements to the
Expansion Premises and against the fees and costs incurred by Tenant with respect to preparation of
the Plans and Specifications for the Expansion Premises and all permit fees. The Tenant
Improvement Allowance shall be Thirteen   Dollars ($13.00) per rentable square foot of the
Expansion Premises (i.e., a total of $301,119.00). Tenant shall be obligated to pay, when due, the
cost of Tenant s Work to the extent that the same exceeds the Tenant Improvement Allowance
Landlord shall pay and reimburse the Tenant the Tenant Improvement Allowance within thirty (30)
days of Tenant s satisfaction of and compliance with Section 5(f) above.

(h)     In connection with the Tenant s Work, Tenant hereby specifically acknowledges and agrees
that any improvements or modifications to the Expansion Premises and/or Building II required to
bring the same into compliance with current applicable laws, rules, regulations and building codes,
shall be at the sole cost of the Tenant and shall be included within the costs described in Section
5(g) above or in the approved budget for Tenant s Work constituting part of the Plans and
Specifications. For example, but not by way of limitation of the foregoing, Tenant shall be solely
responsible at its cost for: any alterations or improvements required to bring the Expansion
Premises into compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) or other laws, rules and
regulations relating to accessibility; updating the electrical infrastructure configuration; all
demolition above existing ceilings within the Expansion Premises; correcting deficiencies in core
walls and above the existing ceiling within the

-6-

Expansion Premises; modifying egress lighting and adding battery pack lights; and additional
wire supports for existing light fixtures.

6.        Project Services . Landlord shall install a separate submeter for the electric
power serving the Expansion Premises (including but not limited to the HVAC system serving the
Expansion Premises). Landlord shall initially pay for the electricity used as shown on the
submeter(s) and Tenant shall thereafter reimburse Landlord on a monthly basis for said costs
pursuant to invoice.

7.        Casualty and Untenantability . Section 8.1 of the Lease is hereby deleted in its
entirety, and the following new Section 8.1 is hereby inserted in place and in lieu thereof:

8.1  
       
       CASUALTY AND UNTENANTABILITY   :  If either Building I or Building II is
made substantially untenable or if Tenant s use and occupancy of either the Original
Premises or the Expansion Premises are substantially interfered with due to damage to
the common areas of either Building I or Building II or if either the Original Premises
or the Expansion Premises is made wholly or partially untenable by fire or other
casualty, Landlord may, by notice to within 45 days after the damage, terminate this
Lease with respect to the space/building so damaged (e.g., if Building II and/or the
Expansion Premises is so damaged, Landlord may terminate this Lease with respect to the
Expansion Premises). Such termination shall become effective as of the date of such
casualty. 

If either the Original Premises or the Expansion Premises is made partially or
wholly untenable by fire or other casualty and this Lease is not terminated as
provided above, Landlord shall restore the Original Premises or the Expansion
Premises, as applicable, to the condition they were in on the Lease Commencement
Date, not including any personal property of Tenant or alterations performed by
Tenant. 

If the Landlord does not terminate this Lease as provided above, and Landlord fails
within 120 days from the date of such casualty to restore the damaged common areas
thereby eliminating substantial interference with Tenant s use and occupancy of
either the Original Premises or the Expansion Premises, or fails to restore the
Leased Premises to the condition they were in on the Lease Commencement Date, not
including any personal property or alterations performed by Tenant, Tenant may
terminate this Lease as of the end of such 120 day period. 

In the event of termination of this Lease pursuant to this paragraph, Rent shall be
prorated on a per diem basis and paid to the date of the casualty, unless either the
Original Premises or the Expansion Premises shall be tenantable, in which case Rent
shall be payable to the date of the lease termination. If either the Original
Premises or the Expansion Premises are untenable and this Lease is not terminated,
Rent shall abate on a per diem basis from the date of the casualty until either the
Original Premises or the Expansion Premises are ready for occupancy by Tenant. If
part of either the Original Premises or the Expansion Premises is 

-7-

untenable, Rent shall be prorated on a per diem basis and apportioned in accordance
with the part of either the Original Premises or the Expansion Premises which is
usable by Tenant until the damaged part is ready for Tenant s occupancy.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any damage was proximately caused by an act or
omission of Tenant, its employees, agents, contractors, licensees or invitees, then,
in such event, Tenant agrees that Rent shall not abate or be diminished during the
term of this Lease. 

8.        Condemnation . Section 9.1 of the Lease is hereby deleted in its entirety and the
following new Section 9.1 is hereby inserted in place and in lieu thereof:

9.1  
       
       CONDEMNATION   :  If all or any part of the Original Premises shall be
taken under power of eminent domain or sold under imminent threat to any public
authority or private entity having such power, this Lease shall terminate as to the
part of the Original Premises so taken or sold, effective as of the date possession is
required to be delivered to such authority. In such event, Building I Base Rent shall
abate in the ratio that the portion of Tenant s Building I Square Footage taken or sold
bears to Tenant s Building I Square Footage. If a partial taking or sale of the
Original Premises, Building I or the Project (i) substantially reduces Tenant s Square
Footage resulting in a substantial inability of Tenant to use the Original Premises for
the Permitted Purpose, or (ii) renders Building I or the Project not commercially
viable to Landlord in Landlord s sole opinion, either Tenant in the case of (i), or
Landlord in the case of (ii), may terminate this Lease by notice to the other party
within 30 days after the terminating party receives written notice of the portion to be
taken or sold. Such termination shall be effective 180 days after notice thereof, or
when the portion is taken or sold, whichever is sooner. All condemnation awards and
similar payments shall be paid and belong to Landlord, except any amounts awarded or
paid specifically to Tenant for removal and reinstallation of Tenant s trade fixtures,
personal property or Tenant s moving costs. To the extent permitted by law, Tenant
shall, however, be entitled to seek business damages from any condemning authority. 

If all or any part of the Expansion Premises shall be taken under power of eminent
domain or sold under imminent threat to any public authority or private entity
having such power, this Lease shall terminate as to the part of the Expansion
Premises so taken or sold, effective as of the date possession is required to be
delivered to such authority. In such event, Building II Base Rent shall abate in
the ratio that the portion of Tenant s Building II Square Footage taken or sold
bears to Tenant s Building II Square Footage. If a partial taking or sale of the
Expansion Premises, Building II or the Project (i) substantially reduces Tenant s
Building II Square Footage resulting in a substantial inability of Tenant to use the
Expansion Premises for the Permitted Purpose, or (ii) renders Building II or the
Project not commercially viable to Landlord in Landlord s sole opinion, either
Tenant in the case of (i), or Landlord in the case of (ii), may terminate this Lease
by notice to the other party within 30 days after the terminating party receives
written notice of the portion to be taken or sold. Such termination shall be
effective 180 days after notice thereof, or when the portion is taken or sold, 

-8-

whichever is sooner. All condemnation awards and similar payments shall be paid and
belong to Landlord, except any amounts awarded or paid specifically to Tenant for
removal and reinstallation of Tenant s trade fixtures, personal property or Tenant s
moving costs. To the extent permitted by law, Tenant shall, however, be entitled to
seek business damages from any condemning authority. 

9.        Termination Option . Section 12.3 of the Lease is hereby deleted in its entirety
and the following new Section 12.3 is hereby inserted in lieu and in place thereof:

12.3  
       
      DOWNSIZING OPTION (Building I) : Tenant shall have a one-time option to
terminate a portion of the Original Premises only in the event that Tenant intends to
expand its office facilities to a premises in excess of the available space in Building
I, and Tenant is moving into a building in which it will occupy no less than 130,000
Rentable Square Feet ( RSF ). By written notice to Landlord, Tenant may elect to
vacate up to 47,067 RSF of contiguous space within Building I, the location of which
Landlord and Tenant shall mutually agree upon in writing. This option only remains
open for partial termination of the respective portion of the Original Premises between
the end of the FORTY-EIGHTH (48th) month and FIFTY-SEVENTH (57th) month of the Lease
Term, and Tenant shall provide no less than TWELVE (12) months prior written notice to
Landlord. In the event that Tenant elects to vacate a portion of the Original Premises
as provided in this paragraph, Tenant shall pay to Landlord an early termination fee of
SIXTY THOUSAND and NO/100 dollars ($60,000.00). Further, in the event that Tenant
exercises the downsizing option set forth in this paragraph, Tenant agrees to give
Landlord an opportunity to submit a proposal to provide Tenant s new occupancy need in
another building owned or managed by Landlord, or to be constructed by Landlord. 

TERMINATION OPTION (Building II):  Provided that there then exists no event
of default by Tenant under this Lease nor any event that with the giving of notice
and/or the passage of time would constitute a default, and that Tenant is the sole
occupant of the Expansion Premises, Tenant shall have a one-time option to terminate
this Lease with respect to the Expansion Premises only, effective on any date that
is between the thirty-sixth (36th ) month and the forty-fifth (45th ) month after
the Expansion Commencement Date, by providing not less than nine (9) months  prior
written notice to the Landlord and paying to Landlord a termination fee equal to one
(1) month s Building II Base Rent as of the effective date of such termination,
together with the unamortized costs of the tenant improvements within the Expansion
Premises and all leasing commissions paid by Landlord in connection with the lease
of the Expansion Premises hereunder. This right of termination is a one-time right,
is personal to Tenant and its Affiliates (defined below), and is non-transferable to
any assignee or sublessee (regardless of whether any such assignment or sublease was
made with or without Landlord s consent) or other party. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, however, in the event Tenant exercises the termination option for the
Expansion Premises pursuant to this paragraph as part of entering into an agreement
with Landlord to expand and consolidate Tenant s space and facilities into any other
project owned by the 

-9-

Landlord, then the foregoing termination fee applicable to the Expansion Premises
shall not be due and payable by Tenant.  Affiliate  means (i) any entity
controlling, controlled by, or under common control of, Tenant, (ii) any successor
to Tenant by merger, consolidation or reorganization, and (iii) any purchaser of all
or substantially all of the assets of Tenant as a going concern. 

10.     Right of First Offer . Subject to the rights of Charles Schwab   Co., Inc.
( Schwab ), in the event that all or any portion of the 25,000 rentable square feet of space which
are contiguous to the Expansion Premises (in each case, the  Additional Space ) first becomes
available for rental during the term of this Lease and provided that Landlord has not given Tenant
notice of default more than two (2) times during the immediately preceding twelve (12) months, that
there then exists no event of default by Tenant under this Lease nor any event that with the giving
of notice and/or the passage of time would constitute a default, and that Tenant is the sole
occupant of the Expansion Premises, Tenant shall have the right of first offer to lease all of the
Additional Space, subject to the following:

(a)      Landlord shall notify Tenant when the Additional Space first becomes available for rental
and Tenant shall have seven (7) days following receipt of such notice within which to notify
Landlord in writing that Tenant is interested in negotiating terms for leasing such Additional
Space and to have its offer considered by Landlord prior to the leasing by Landlord of the
Additional Space to a third party. If Tenant notifies Landlord within such time period that Tenant
is so interested, then Landlord and Tenant shall have thirty (30) days following Landlord s receipt
of such notice from Tenant within which to negotiate, in good faith, mutually satisfactory terms
for the leasing of the Additional Space by Tenant and to execute an amendment to this Lease
incorporating such terms or a new lease for the Additional Space.

(b)      If Tenant does not notify Landlord within such 7 days of its interest in leasing the
Additional Space, or if Tenant does not execute such Lease amendment within such 30 days, if
applicable, then this right of first offer to lease the Additional Space will lapse and be of no
further force or effect and Landlord shall have the right to lease the Additional Space to any
other party on any terms and conditions acceptable to Landlord.

(c)      This right of first offer to lease the Additional Space is a one-time right if and when
each Additional Space first becomes available, is personal to Tenant and is non-transferable to any
assignee or sublessee (regardless of whether any such assignment or sublease was made with or
without Landlord s consent) or other party.

11.     Lobby/Courtyard Use . Section 13.14 of the Lease is hereby deleted in its entirety
and the following new Section 13.14 is hereby inserted in place and in lieu thereof:

13.14  
       
       LOBBY/COURTYARD USE   :  Tenant shall, upon Landlord s prior written
authority, have the right to use the Building I lobby for display purposes including
plasma screens and kiosks, provided such use and display is deemed by Landlord to be in
good taste, at Landlord s discretion, and such use or displays do not interfere with
any other tenant s rights and does not constitute a nuisance. As long as Tenant
occupies the entire FIRST (1st) Floor of Building I, Tenant will have the exclusive use
of (at no additional cost) the courtyard area on the east side 

-10-

of Building I and may make improvements to suit its needs subject to Landlord s
reasonable approval. Tenant shall install and maintain any such items at Tenant s
sole cost and expense, and Tenant shall, at Tenant s sole cost and expense, remove
any such items and restore the Building I lobby to its original condition. 

12.     Base Rent Adjustment . Section 13.17 of the Lease is hereby deleted in its
entirety, and the following new Section 13.17 is hereby inserted in place and in lieu thereof:

13.17  
       
       BASE RENT ADJUSTMENT   :  Building I Base Rent shall be adjusted on the
following dates (with Month 1 being January 1, 2005): 

Building II Base Rent shall be adjusted on the following dates (with Month 1 below being the month of the Expansion Commencement Date): 

If the Expansion Commencement Date is not the first day of the month, the Base Rent,
Operating Costs and other amounts due under the Lease for that partial month shall be
apportioned on a per diem basis and shall be paid on or before the Expansion Commencement
Date.

13.     Signage . Section 13.19 of the Lease is hereby deleted in its entirety and the
following new Section 13.19 is hereby inserted in place and in lieu thereof:

13.19  
       
       SIGNAGE   :  Landlord will allow Tenant, at Tenant s expense, to display
its company name on the Building I facia. Specifications for any such signage must be
approved by Landlord in writing prior to Tenant s seeking applicable permits 

-11-

from governmental authorities and installation. Landlord reserves the right in its
sole discretion, to specify details of such signage. In the event that Tenant
elects to exercise its downsizing option pursuant to Section 12.3, Landlord shall
have the right to require Tenant, at Tenant s sole cost, to remove its sign from the
Building I facia and restore the Building I facia to its original condition,
original wear and tear excepted. Tenant, at Tenant s sole cost and expense, shall
be required to remove all Building I signage and restore the Building I facia to its
original condition, original wear and tear excepted, upon expiration of the Lease. 

Landlord will allow Tenant, at Tenant s expense, to display its company name on the
Landlord s illuminated monument sign at the entrance of Summit Park on Summit
Boulevard, which monument sign serves both Building I and Building II, and such
company name shall be similar and comparable in size, copy area, quality and
visibility as the signage/logo for Schwab currently located on such monument sign.
Such monument signage shall be installed by Tenant no later than December 31, 2005. 

All signage will conform to applicable governing authority requirements and Tenant
shall obtain any permits or authorizations necessary for signage it installs
hereunder. 

Landlord shall arrange for Tenant s suite identification sign(s) and lobby directory
strip(s) at Tenant s expense. Tenant may incorporate its logo graphics, without
color, on the suite identification sign(s). 

14.     Right of First Refusal . Landlord hereby specifically acknowledges and agrees that
the addition of the Expansion Premises to the Lease, and the Tenant s use and occupancy thereof as
provided herein, shall not constitute or qualify as the one-time Right of First Refusal with
respect to space that becomes available in the Project as provided in Section 13.20 of the Lease.
Tenant s ROFR as provided in Section 13.20 shall not be affected by the execution of this Amendment
or the Tenant s lease and occupancy of the Expansion Premises.

15.     Tenant Improvement Allowance . Section 10 of Schedule 6 of the Lease is hereby
deleted in its entirety and the following new Section 10 is hereby inserted in place and in lieu
thereof:

(10)   Landlord will provide Tenant with an allowance (the  Tenant Improvement Allowance )
against the cost of the improvements to the Premises and against the fees and costs incurred
with respect to preparation of the Plans and Specifications for the Premises and all permit
fees. The Tenant Improvement Allowance shall be One Million Five Hundred Sixty-Five
Thousand Five Hundred Ten Dollars and Ninety-Seven Cents ($1,565,510.97). Upon expiration
or written waiver of the Downsizing Option, Landlord shall pay an additional $4.09 per
square foot of Tenant Improvement Allowance for the space not vacated up to 47,067 RSF
($192,504.03) .  In the event that Tenant retains possession of the Premises subject to the
Downsizing Option after the FORTY-EIGHTH (48) month, but exercises the Downsizing Option
before the FIFTY-SEVENTH (57 th ) month, Tenant shall receive a proportionate share
of the additional Tenant Improvement

-12-

Allowance which shall be determined as follows: The total of this retained RSF multiplied
by $4.09. plus the total RSF to be vacated (but retained during Downsizing Option Period)
multiplied by that number of months Tenant remains in possession divided by that proportion
of the remaining Lease Term that the total number of months after the FORTY EIGHTH
(48 th ) month that Tenant remains in possession of the portion of the Premises
subject to the Downsizing Option of the remaining months of the Lease Term (18 months).
 Example: If Tenant vacates the 10,000 RSF on the 50 th  month of the Lease, Tenant
shall receive $151,604.03  37,067 RSF x $4.09=$151,604.03  plus $4,544.44  (10,000 x $4.09)
x (2 18) = $4,544.44 . The Tenant Improvement Allowance shall be paid by Landlord by joint
check to Tenant or Tenant s designated agent   and its general contractor in monthly
installments, based upon requests for payment submitted by Tenant and its general contractor
not more than monthly .  Additionally, TWENTY FIVE percent (25%) of the additional Tenant
Improvement Allowance may be applied, at Tenant s  request, toward Rent  .  Each
request for payment shall be accompanied by a certification by the architect that all work
up to the date of the request for payment has been substantially completed, along with the
items required under subsection (7), above (except for a certificate of occupancy), for work
done or materials furnished up to the date of Tenant s request for payment. Upon receipt
thereof, Landlord shall pay to Tenant and its general contractor (by joint check), within
TWENTY (20) days after submission of such items to Landlord, an amount equal to Landlord s
pro-rata share of such request for payment. Landlord s pro-rata share shall mean the
percentage that the Tenant Improvement Allowance bears to the total cost of the Tenant s
Work (plus the architectural and engineering fees incurred with respect to the Plans and
Specifications and permit fees) (less TEN percent (10%) of each payment to be retained by
Landlord pending final completion). Upon final completion of the Tenant s Work and receipt
by Landlord of the items required under subsection (7), above, plus reasonable evidence
indicating that all of Tenant s Costs have been paid, Landlord shall pay to Tenant and its
general contractor (by joint check) within THIRTY (30) days the remaining Tenant Improvement
Allowance, plus the retainage (provided, however, that the retainage will not be released by
Landlord until all punchlist items have been completed). Any and all costs for the
construction of the Premises above the Tenant Improvement Allowance ( Tenant s Costs ) shall
be paid by Tenant to the applicable contractors, subcontractors, and material suppliers.
Tenant shall receive no credit or payment for any unused portion of the Tenant Improvement
Allowance. Tenant shall be able to recapture up to TWENTY-FIVE percent (25%) of any Tenant
Improvement dollars via an offset in base rental.

16.     Relocating Suite 300 Tenant . Landlord and Tenant acknowledge and agree that the
relocation terms and conditions contained in Section 13.21 of the Lease apply and relate to Suite
300 of Building I.

17.     Effect of Termination of Lease for Original Premises . If this Lease is terminated
with respect to the Original Premises due to condemnation or casualty of the Original Premises, or
due to the default of Landlord with respect to the Lease and the Original Premises to the extent
that the Lease and Tenant s obligations thereunder is terminated by a court of law and Tenant has
vacated the Original Premises, then notwithstanding any other terms and conditions of the Lease to
the contrary, Tenant shall have the right to terminate this Lease with respect to the

-13-

Expansion Premises simultaneously with the termination of this Lease with respect to the
Original Premises. In the event Tenant elects to exercise its right to terminate the Lease with
respect to the Expansion Premises as provided in this Section 16, Tenant shall notify Landlord of
such election in writing and such termination shall be effective simultaneously with the
termination of the Lease with respect to the Original Premises.

18.     Effect of Amendment; Conflicts; Capitalized Terms . Except as expressly modified
or amended herein, the Lease remains unchanged and in full force and effect in accordance with its
terms. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of this Amendment and the
Lease, the terms and provisions of this Amendment shall control and be given effect. All
capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings and definitions ascribed to
such terms in the Lease. This Amendment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
Landlord and the Tenant and their respective successors and assigns.

19.     Counterparts; Facsimile Copies . This Amendment may be executed simultaneously in
two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall
constitute one and the same instrument. To facilitate execution, the parties agree that this
Amendment may be executed and telecopied to the other party and that an executed telecopy shall be
as binding and enforceable as an original.

20.     Effective Date . The  Effective Date  of this Amendment shall be date on which the
last of the Landlord or the Tenant executes this Amendment.

Signatures appear on following page  

-14-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , Landlord and Tenant have executed this Amendment as of the day and year
first above written.

LANDLORD: 
 
 LIBERTY PROPERTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP  

By:     Liberty Property Trust, Sole General Partner 

By:   
     /s/ Robert Goldschmidt

Name:   
     Robert Goldschmidt  

Title:   
     Sr. Vice President  

Witness:

/s/ Stephanie Garcia

Name:

Stephanie Garcia 

Witness:

/s/ Xiomara Santos 

Name:

Xiomara Santos 

TENANT: 
 
 ELECTRONIC ARTS-TIBURON , a Florida corporation 

By:   
     /s/ Bryan Neider

Name:   
     Bryan Neider  

Title:   
     CFO, WW Studios  

Witness:

Name:

Witness:

Name:

-15-

Schedule 1 

Description of Leased Premises and/or Floor Plans  

Original Premises (All within Building I)  

First Floor (excluding commons areas) 
Second Floor 
Third Floor (excluding Suite 300, existing of 11,039 RSF) 
Fourth Floor 
Fifth Floor 
Sixth Floor

Expansion Premises (All within Building II)  

Sixth Floor

Schedule 9  

Approved Tenant s General Contractor, Architect and Engineer  

General Contractor : Brasfield and Gorrie, LLC  
 Architect : Baker Barrios Architects  
 Engineer : Sims Wilkerson Engineering, Inc.

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 f16210exv10w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.2

exv10w2 

Exhibit 10.2

7 February 2006  

THE STANDARD LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY 

and

ELECTRONIC ARTS LIMITED 

and

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC 

AGREEMENT FOR UNDERLEASE 

relating to

Onslow House, Guildford, Surrey

Herbert Smith LLP

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

ANNEXURES:

Annexure A :

Lease 

Annexure B :

Landlord s Works 

Annexure C :

Snagging Works 

Annexure D :

Programme 

Annexure E :

External Works   Derek Lovejoy London Limited drawing number 4258-002
and the CID Specification dated December 2005 

Annexure F :

Form of letter from Measurement Surveyors to Tenant 

Annexure G :

Form of Landlord s Cladding Deed 

Annexure H :

Contractor s Warranty 

Annexure I :

Licence to carry out Works 

Annexure J :

Landlord s cladding works 

Annexure K :

Outstanding documents 

Annexure L :

Form of Opinion Letter 

Annexure M :

Forms of warranties from the professional advisors and subcontractors
described in Annexure N 

Annexure N :

List of professional advisors and subcontractors to give warranties
to the Tenant 

Annexure O:

External Works Contractor s Warranty 

Annexure P:

Outstanding Works 

Annexure Q:

Security Package 

Annexure R:

Brise Soleil Method Statement 

THIS
AGREEMENT  is made on
the
7 th  day of
February 2006

BETWEEN :

(3)  
       
      ELECTRONIC ARTS INC  whose registered office is at 209 Redwood Shares Parkway, Redwood City,
California 94065 (a corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware)  (the  Guarantor )  

WHEREBY IT IS AGREED  as follows:

1.  
       
      DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION  

1.1 
       
      Definitions  

In this agreement the following words and expressions have the following meanings unless
the context otherwise requires: 

Brise Soleil Method Statement   means the method statement set out at Annexure R; 

Building Contract   means the building contract dated 27 th  April 2001 made
between Tilebox Limited (1) and the Contractor (2) as amended and varied; 

CDM Regulations   means the Construction (Design and Management) Regulations 1994 together
with the current Approved Code of Practice relating to the same; 

Contractor   means Alfred McAlpine Capital Projects Limited (which changed its name from
Alfred McAlpine Construction Limited on 7 th  October 2003) (Co. Regn. No.
00247624); 

Contractor s Warranty   means a warranty in favour of the Tenant in the form of the agreed
draft at Annexure H; 

Date of Permitted Entry   means the date defined in clause 14.1; 

Default Event   means any or all of the following to occur: 

(a) 
       
     the Tenant or the Guarantor shall have an order made or resolution passed for
its winding-up which is not removed within a period of fourteen days thereafter; 

(b) 
       
     the Tenant or the Guarantor enters into voluntary winding-up other than for
the purposes of re-organisation whilst solvent; 

(c) 
       
     the appointment of a provisional liquidator to the Tenant or the Guarantor; 

(d) 
       
     presentation of a petition in respect of the Tenant or the Guarantor which is
not contested within fourteen days of presentation or a meeting is convened for the
purpose of considering a resolution for winding-up; 

(e) 
       
     dissolution of the Tenant or the Guarantor (whether or not after winding-up); 

1

(f) 
       
     if in respect of the Tenant or of the Guarantor a resolution is passed or any
other step is taken by the company or its directors for the appointment of an
administrator, or an administrator is appointed, or a petition or application for an
administration order is presented in relation to the company; 

(g) 
       
     if a receiver (which expression shall without prejudice to the generality
thereof include an administrative receiver) is appointed over all or any of the assets
or of the income arising from all or any of the assets of the Tenant or of the
Guarantor; 

(h) 
       
     the Tenant or the Guarantor is unable to pay its debts within the meaning of
Section 123 of the Insolvency Act 1986; or 

(i) 
       
     if any meeting of the Tenant or the Guarantor is convened pursuant to Section
123 of the Insolvency Act 1986 to consider a proposal for a voluntary arrangement
under Part 1 of such Act; 

Defects Period   means the period of 12 months from Practical Completion;

Documents   means the plans elevations sections and drawings and outline specification in
respect of the Landlord s Works and Security Package works including mechanical electrical
lift and other services and drainage and engineers drawings and manuals of all materials
and supplies used in and all other technical data necessary for the carrying out and
completion of the Landlord s Works and, in relation to the Landlord s Works only, and in
respect of which copyright is vested in Tilebox Limited or Tilebox Limited has the benefit
of a copyright licence capable of grant of sub-licences;

Employer s Agent   means Mercer and Miller of 39 Praed Street, London W2 1NR;

External Works   means the works to the area surrounding the Podium to include the
landscaping for the South and West elevations (particularly for the elevation fronting the
pedestrian bridge link) and the residential square all as further detailed at Annexure E as
amended and/or enhanced at the Tenant s suggestion provided there are no cost or programme
implications;

External Works Contract   means the contract with the External Works Contractor for
carrying out the External Works;

External Works Contractor   means the contractor employed to carry out the External Works;

External Works Contractor s Warranty   means a warranty from the External Works Contractor
in respect of the External Works in favour of the Tenant in the form set out at Annexure O
mutatis mutandis;

Head Lease   means the lease under which the Landlord holds the Premises dated 16 March
2001 made between The Council of the Borough of Guildford (1) and the Landlord (2);

Health and Safety File   means the health and safety file required to be maintained in
relation to the Premises including without limitation the Landlord s Works, the Snagging
Works, the External Works and/or any component of them or in relation to the Tenant s Works
or any component of them, as the context requires, pursuant to the CDM Regulations;

2

Landlord s Cladding Deed   means a deed in the form of the agreed draft at Annexure G;

Landlord s Works   means the works briefly described in Annexure B being the works carried
out and/or to be carried out pursuant to the Building Contract (together with the works
described in Annexure J);

Lease   means an underlease of the Premises in the form of the agreed draft at Annexure A;

Licence to Carry Out Works   means a Licence to carry out the Tenant s Works in the form of
the agreed draft at Annexure I

Measurement Surveyors   means On Centre Surveys Ltd;

Method Statement   means a statement prepared by or on behalf of the Tenant setting out the
methods by which the Tenant intends to commence and execute the Tenant s Works;

Net Internal Area   means Net Internal Area as defined in the Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors Code of Measuring Practice 5th edition (2001);

Opinion Letter   means a letter in respect of the Guarantor in the form of the agreed draft
at Annexure L;

Outstanding Works   means the works described in Annexure P;

Planning Permission   means the planning permission dated 8 th  September 2000
issued by Guildford Borough Council under reference 99/P/01052;

Practical Completion   means, in relation to the Landlord s Works and the External Works,
practical completion in accordance with the Building Contract or External Works Contract,
as the context requires, and with this agreement;

Premises   means the premises known as Onslow House, Guildford and more particularly
described in the Lease;

Programme   means the Landlord s programme for the carrying out of the Landlord s Works,
the Snagging Works and the External Works a copy of which is at Annexure D (as revised from
time to time by the Landlord);

Rent Commencement Date   means the later of 1 st  June 2008 and 24 months after
the Date of Permitted Entry;

Requisite Permissions   means the Planning Permission and all requisite building regulation
requirements, relevant British Standards and Codes of Practice, approvals, consents,
licences, permissions and certificates required from any person and all other statutory
consents necessary to commence carry out and complete the Landlord s Works, the Snagging
Works, the Outstanding Works, the Security Package works and the External Works or, as
appropriate, the Tenant s Works (including the works described in clause 9.8 but excluding
any consent of the superior landlord required pursuant to the Head Lease);

Section 106 Agreement   means an agreement dated 8 th  September 2000 and made
between (1) The Council of the Borough of Guildford (2) Tilebox Limited (3) The Council of
the Borough of Guildford and (4) Surrey County Council;

3

Security Package   means the works described in Annexure Q;

Snagging Works   the works described in Annexure C;

Target Date   means 1 June 2006;

Tenant s Representative   means Buro Four Project Services Limited of 300 St John
Street, London EC1V 4PP or such other firm or company as may be appointed by the Tenant as
such for the purposes of this agreement and notified in writing to the Landlord;

Tenant s Mortgagee   means a mortgagee or chargee to whom the Tenant may have charged the
benefit of this agreement with the Landlord s consent pursuant to Clause 20.2;

Tenant s Works   means the works to be carried out by the Tenant for the purpose of the
initial fitting out of the Premises;

working day   means any day from Monday to Friday (inclusive) other than Christmas Day Good
Friday and any statutory bank holiday in England.

1.2.1 
       
     Any expressions common to this agreement and the Lease shall have the same
meaning ascribed to them in the Lease unless this agreement otherwise prescribes. 

1.2.2 
       
     Words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa and words of
one gender shall include the other two genders. 

1.2.3 
       
     If a party comprises two or more persons their obligations and liabilities
are joint and several. 

1.2.4 
       
     Reference to a party agreeing not to do or omit any act or thing shall
include references to that party not permitting or suffering it to be done or omitted. 

1.2.5 
       
     Any reference to a Clause or Schedule is a reference to a Clause or Schedule
of this agreement and any heading in this agreement shall not affect the construction
of this agreement or any document referred to in it. 

1.2.6 
       
     In Clauses 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12 and 13  Landlord  shall only mean
the party of the first part of this agreement and the obligations on the part of the
Landlord contained in these Clauses shall be personal to the Landlord. 

1.2.7 
       
     Any reference to any statute or section of a statute shall include all
subordinate legislation deriving validity from that statute or section of a statute
and shall extend to any statutory amendment modification consolidation and
re-enactment of it or such subordinate legislation for the time being in force. 

2.  
       
      THE LANDLORD S WORKS  

2.1 
       
      Execution of Works  

The Landlord has procured and shall procure the design, execution and completion of the
Landlord s Works, the External Works, the Outstanding Works, the Security Package works and
the Snagging Works:

4

2.1.1 
       
     at its own expense; 

2.1.2 
       
     with due diligence and expedition; 

2.1.3 
       
     in compliance with all Requisite Permissions; 

2.1.4 
       
     in a good and workmanlike manner using sound materials of good quality; 

2.1.5 
       
     in accordance with all statutes, statutory orders and regulations made under
or deriving validity from them and which affect such works and any enforceable codes
of practice of the local authority which shall affect the execution and completion of
the Landlord s Works, the Snagging Works and/or the External Works, once completed; 

2.1.6 
       
     in accordance with the Programme, the Brise Soleil Method Statement and this
Agreement. 

2.2 
       
      Delays to the Programme  

2.2.1 
       
     The Landlord shall procure that the Landlord s Works have achieved Practical
Completion by the Target Date. The Landlord shall use all reasonable endeavours to
procure that the External Works have achieved Practical Completion and the Snagging
Works and the Outstanding Works are complete by the Target Date. 

2.2.2 
       
     The Landlord shall forthwith advise the Tenant in the event that the
Landlord s Works and/or the External Works and/or the Snagging Works are not
proceeding substantially in accordance with the Programme. 

2.2.3 
       
     Without prejudice to clauses 2.1.2, 2.2.1, 15.4 and 15.5 if the Landlord is
of the opinion that the Landlord s Works and/or the External Works and/or the Snagging
Works will not be completed or are not likely to be completed by the anticipated dates
as specified in the Programme then the Landlord shall prepare a revised Programme
identifying the new anticipated dates and shall supply the Tenant with a copy of the
revised Programme. 

2.2.4 
       
     For the purposes of clause 2.2 the Target Date shall be extended by
reference to any impediment, prevention or default, whether by act or omission, by the
Tenant or any person for whom the Tenant is responsible except to the extent that it
was caused or contributed to by any default, whether by act or omission, of the
Landlord or any person for whom it is responsible. 

2.2.5 
       
     The Landlord shall start the Security Package works immediately following
Practical Completion and will use all reasonable endeavours to complete them prior to
the Target Date. 

2.3 
       
      Extent of Landlord s Obligations  

2.3.1 
       
     Subject to clause 2.3.2 to the extent permitted by law the Landlord s
liability pursuant to this agreement in respect of the Landlord s Works the External
Works and the Snagging Works shall following the later of the date of Practical
Completion, completion of the Snagging Works, the Target Date and provision of the
Contractor s Warranty and the Landlord s Cladding Deed pursuant to clause 5 of this
agreement, be confined to the obligations expressly set out in clause 7 of 

5

this agreement and in clause 5.4 of the Lease and in the Landlord s Cladding Deed. 

2.3.2 
       
     The Landlord shall not be relieved of its obligations pursuant to clause 6.2
of this agreement unless and until the collateral warranty from the Employer s Agent
to be provided pursuant to clause 5 has been delivered to the Tenant. 

2.4 
       
      Requisite Permissions  

The Landlord shall obtain all of the Requisite Permissions so as to enable the Landlord s
Works, the External Works, the Outstanding Works, the Security Package works and the
Snagging Works to be designed, carried out and completed as expeditiously as possible and
in any event by the Target Date. 

3.  
       
      MEASUREMENT OF THE PREMISES AND THE CALCULATION OF THE INITIAL RENT  

3.1 
       
     The Net Internal Area of the Premises has been measured by the Measurement Surveyors as
follows:- 

3.2 
       
     On or before grant of the Lease, the Landlord will procure that the Measurement Surveyors
issue to the Tenant a letter in the form annexed (Annexure F). 

3.3 
       
     The Measurement Surveyors have acted as experts and their determination as to the Net
Internal Area of the Premises is (except in the case of obvious error) final and binding upon
the Parties. 

6

4.  
       
      SITE VISITS AND MEETINGS AND SUPPLY OF INFORMATION  

4.1 
       
      Entry onto the Premises to view Works  

The Landlord shall permit the Tenant, the Tenant s Representative and their respective
advisers at all reasonable times to enter onto the Premises (accompanied by a
representative of the Landlord if the Landlord shall so require) to inspect and record the
progress of the Landlord s Works and/or the External Works and/or the Snagging Works and/or
the Outstanding Works and/or the Security Package works and to prepare plans drawings
specifications and tenders for the Tenant s Works subject nevertheless to: 

4.1.1 
       
     reasonable prior notice being given to the Landlord; 

4.1.2 
       
     compliance with the proper and reasonable safety requirements imposed by the
Landlord or the Contractor from time to time for the Premises and notified (insofar as
practicable in writing) to the Tenant; and 

4.1.3 
       
     the Tenant, the Tenant s Representative and their respective advisers not
materially impeding the progress of the Landlord s Works and/or the External Works
and/or the Snagging Works and/or the Outstanding Works and/or the Security Package
works (as the case may be) 

and the Landlord shall provide personal protective equipment for the use of the Tenant, the
Tenant s Representative and their advisors during such visits.

4.2 
       
      Progress meetings  

The Tenant, the Tenant s Representative and their advisers shall be entitled to attend
progress meetings with the Landlord, the Contractor and the External Works Contractor which
the Landlord shall procure shall take place no less frequently than monthly. The Landlord
shall provide the Tenant with reasonable prior written notice of the date, time and place
of each such meeting together with a copy of any proposed agenda. 

4.3 
       
      Representations by Tenant  

The Landlord shall take proper account of (but shall not be bound by) any representations
made by or on behalf of the Tenant in connection with the Landlord s Works and/or the
External Works and/or the Snagging Works and/or the Outstanding Works and/or the Security
Package works and the progress thereof Provided that: 

4.3.1 
       
     nothing in this Clause shall interfere in any way with the rights of the
Landlord under the Building Contract or the External Works Contract; and 

4.3.2 
       
     any representations made by or on behalf of the Tenant shall be made at progress
meetings pursuant to clause 4.2 and/or confirmed or made in writing direct to the
Landlord and shall not be made to any other party involved in the carrying out or
construction of the Landlord s Works or the External Works or the Snagging Works or
the Outstanding Works or the Security Package works. 

4.4 
       
      Liability  

The liability of the Landlord under this Agreement shall not be reduced or excluded by any
approval, comment, representation, consent, enquiry or inspection into any relevant matter 

7

which may be made or carried out by or on behalf of the Tenant or by any failure to make or
give any such approval, comment, representation, consent, enquiry or inspection. 

4.5 
       
      Provision of Documents  

The Landlord shall provide the Tenant with  a copy of the outstanding documents listed in
Annexure K prior to 31 January 2006 and  the following documents as and when the same are
prepared, executed or issued (insofar as they have not previously been provided): 

4.5.1 
       
     The Programme; 

4.5.2 
       
     Instructions issued to the Contractor and the External Works Contractor
after the date of this agreement; 

4.5.3 
       
     Minutes of site meetings which take place after the date of this agreement; 

4.5.4 
       
     Any Requisite Permissions; 

4.5.5 
       
     Test certificates and commissioning reports. 

4.6.1 
       
     The Landlord will, as soon as reasonably practicable, procure a copyright
licence from Tilebox Limited in favour of the Landlord in relation to the Documents in
such form which will enable it to grant to the Tenant the copyright sub-licence in
clause 4.6.2 and shall provide a copy of such copyright licence to the Tenant within 2
working days of its receipt. 

4.6.2  
       
     With effect from the date of the licence referred to in clause 4.6.1, the
Landlord hereby grants to the Tenant with full title guarantee an irrevocable,
royalty-free and non-exclusive licence to copy reissue and use the Documents for any
and all purposes connected with the Premises. Such licence shall carry the right to
grant sub-licences and shall be transferable to third parties. The Landlord will not
be liable for any use of the Documents which is not permitted by the terms of this
licence. 

5.  
       
      WARRANTIES  

5.1 
       
     On or before grant of the Lease the Landlord shall procure the proper execution and
unconditional delivery to the Tenant of the Contractor s Warranty and the External Works
Contractor s Warranty. 

5.2 
       
     The Landlord shall use all reasonable endeavours to procure the proper execution (as deeds)
and unconditional delivery to the Tenant, before the grant of the Lease, of deeds of warranty: 

5.2.1 
       
     from each of the professional advisers named at Annexure N in the form of
the relevant draft at Annexure M; and 

5.2.2 
       
     from each of the sub-contractors named at Annexure N substantially in the
form of the relevant draft at Annexure M. 

5.3 
       
     Contemporaneously with the grant of the Lease the Landlord and the Tenant shall properly
execute and unconditionally deliver the Landlord s Cladding Deed and the Tenant shall not 

8

be obliged to complete the Lease unless the Landlord so executes and delivers the
Landlord s Cladding Deed. 

5.4 
       
     The Landlord agrees that the Tenant may waive its right not to complete the Lease in the
circumstances described in clauses 5.1 and 5.3 in whole or in part and at any time by written
notice to that effect. 

5.5 
       
     During the period from the date five (5) years after the Date of Permitted Entry to the date
ten (10) years thereafter (or the earlier determination of the Lease) and if reasonably
requested to do so by the Tenant or any lawful assignee of the Lease, the Landlord shall
enforce the benefit of any obligation to the Landlord or the occupier of the Premises in
connection with any and all guarantees from suppliers and sub-contractors in relation to the
Premises, the Landlord s Works, the Snagging Works, the Outstanding Works, the Security
Package works and the External Works and pay the proceeds of such enforcement (if any) to the
Tenant on receipt. 

6.  
       
      PRACTICAL COMPLETION  

6.1 
       
     The Landlord shall procure that the Tenant and the Tenant s Representative are given not less
than ten working days  written notice of any inspection and as much notice as reasonably
practicable of any re-inspection of the Landlord s Works and/or External Works with a view to
the issue of any certificate or statement of practical completion pursuant to the Building
Contract or the External Works Contract and the Tenant and/or any of the Tenant s advisers
shall be entitled to inspect the Landlord s Works and the External Works and shall be entitled
prior to the actual issue of such certificates or statements (as the case may be) to make
representations to the Landlord. The Landlord shall ensure that the Employer s Agent has due
regard to such representations but the Employer s Agent s independent discretion in the issue
of the certificate or statement of practical completion shall not be fettered by such
representations. 

6.2 
       
     Without prejudice to clause 6.1, the Landlord shall procure that no certificate or statement
of Practical Completion is issued until 

6.2.1 
       
     The Landlord s Works or the External Works as the case may be have achieved
Practical Completion; 

6.2.2 
       
     (in respect of the Landlord s Works) the external envelope and weathershield
of the Premises including all glazing is completed; 

6.2.3 
       
     (in respect of the Landlord s Works) the lifts (if any) serving the Premises
are fully operational, in accordance with the Building Contract and the Requisite
Permissions and all testing and commissioning has been carried out and all necessary
keys have been provided to the Tenant; 

6.2.4 
       
     the Premises are clean and free of all rubbish and any presence of the
Contractor and the External Works Contractor as the case may be, their
representatives, materials and equipment; 

6.2.5 
       
     all Requisite Permissions have been obtained and all testing and
commissioning in relation to the Premises has been carried out, witnessed and
completed. 

9

6.3 
       
     The Landlord shall forthwith following the issue of any certificate or statement of practical
completion pursuant to the Building Contract or the External Works Contract serve a copy on
the Tenant. 

6.4 
       
     Not later than ten working days  prior to the anticipated completion of the Snagging Works,
the Outstanding Works and/or the Security Package works (as the case may be) the Landlord
shall procure that the Tenant and the Tenant s Representative are given written notice of the
anticipated date of completion of the relevant works. 

6.5 
       
     On or before such anticipated date of completion notified pursuant to clause 6.4, the Tenant
and/or any of the Tenant s advisers shall be entitled to inspect the Snagging Works, the
Outstanding Works and/or the Security Package works, as the case may be. The Tenant and the
Tenant s advisers shall be entitled to make representations in relation to such Snagging
Works, Outstanding Works and/or the Security Package works to which the Landlord shall ensure
the person responsible for accepting completion of such works has due regard (but shall not be
bound by). 

6.6 
       
     Following Practical Completion of the Landlord s Works the Landlord will: 

6.6.1 
       
     perform and observe clause 5.4 of the Lease as if it were set out in full in
this agreement (mutatis mutandis); and 

6.6.2 
       
     allow Guildford Borough Council access to the Premises to carry out the
works described in the notices by letter served on the Landlord and dated the
6 th  and 14 th  September 2005. 

7.  
       
      DEFECTS  

7.1 
       
      Making good defects at Practical Completion  

Following the date of Practical Completion, the Landlord shall procure the completion or
remedying of any defects, omissions and snagging items identified in any snagging list
attached to or issued with the certificate or statement of Practical Completion. The
Landlord shall use all reasonable endeavours to procure that such completion or remedying
is completed as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of Practical Completion. 

7.2 
       
      Making good defects during the Defects Period  

Without prejudice to any other obligation of the Landlord (whether under this Agreement or
otherwise) the Landlord shall procure that any defects, shrinkages or other faults
appearing in the Landlord s Works, the Snagging Works, the Outstanding Works, the Security
Package works and/or the External Works within the Defects Period and which are notified by
the Tenant to the Landlord not less than 5 working days prior to the expiry of the Defects
Period are made good at no cost to the Tenant and as soon as reasonably practicable in
accordance with this Agreement and to the Tenant s reasonable satisfaction. 

7.3 
       
      Making good defects at final completion  

The Landlord shall procure that the Employer s Agent prepares a schedule listing any
omissions defects shrinkages or other faults (save for any caused by any act neglect or
default on the part of the Tenant) appearing in the Landlord s Works, the Snagging Works,
the Outstanding Works, the Security Package works and the External Works and any part
thereof ( the Defects List ) and supply a copy thereof to the Tenant s Representative not 

10

later than twenty working days before the expiry of the relevant Defects Period and the
Tenant shall procure that not later than ten working days after the receipt of such
schedule the Tenant s Representative makes representations to the Employer s Agent or the
Landlord by listing any omissions defects shrinkages or other faults which they have
observed and the Landlord shall procure that the Employer s Agent shall have due regard to
such list in finalising its Defects List. The Landlord shall procure that all items
included in the Defects List are completed or made good to the reasonable satisfaction of
the Tenant. 

7.4 
       
      Access by Landlord to make good defects  

7.4.1 
       
     The Tenant shall permit the Landlord, the Employer s Agent and the
Contractor and/or the External Works Contractor (as the case may be) and all persons
reasonably authorised by them on giving reasonable prior written notice and at
reasonable times to have access to such parts of the Premises as are necessary in
order to remedy any such defects pursuant to clause 7. 

7.4.2 
       
     Such access will be in accordance with a programme submitted by the Landlord
and approved by the Tenant (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed). 

7.4.3 
       
     The Landlord shall procure that all persons given access to the Premises in
order to comply with its obligations pursuant to clause 7: 

(A) 
       
     are supervised by a representative of the Contractor at all
times; 

(B) 
       
     comply with the proper and reasonable safety requirements
imposed by the Tenant or the Tenant s contractor from time to time for the
Premises and notified to the Landlord in writing; 

(C) 
       
     comply with the programme agreed by the Tenant pursuant to
clause 7.4.2 so as to cause the minimum disruption to the Tenant s business;
and 

(D) 
       
     do not materially impede the progress of the Tenant s Works
and/ or the Tenant s use and enjoyment of the Premises. 

7.4.4 
       
     Without prejudice to clause 7.4.3(D), for so long as the Contractor shall
require access to the Premises to make good defects during the execution of the
Tenant s Works the Landlord and the Tenant shall co-ordinate the execution of the
Tenant s Works and the remedying of defects and shall procure that there shall be full
liaison between each other s respective contractors and workmen so as to minimise the
length of any delays and the possibility of interference with each other s works. 

7.4.5 
       
     The Landlord shall procure that any damage caused in complying with its
obligations under clause 7 is made good forthwith and to the reasonable satisfaction
of the Tenant. 

8.  
       
      HEALTH   SAFETY AND AS BUILT INFORMATION  

As soon as reasonably practicable after Practical Completion the Landlord shall at its own
cost supply the Tenant with a complete set of the  As-Built  scale drawings and the Health
and Safety File (in the format specified in the Building Contract) which the Landlord shall
procure is prepared in accordance with the CDM Regulations. 

11

9.  
       
      TENANT S WORKS  

9.1 
       
      Approval of Detailed Works and Method Statement  

9.1.1 
       
     The Tenant shall as soon as reasonably practicable (and in any event before
1 st  May 2006) submit to the Landlord in writing for its written approval
(such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) full particulars of its
proposals for the Tenant s Works and which shall be deemed granted if no response to
the Tenant s application is received by the Tenant within 10 working days of receipt
of the application by the Landlord. 

9.1.2 
       
     Prior to commencement of the Tenant s Works, the Tenant shall provide a copy
of its Method Statement to the Landlord. The Method Statement shall include the
details of contact names for the consultants and contractors proposed for the design
and carrying out of the Tenant s Works. 

9.2 
       
      Access  

From the later of: 

9.2.1 
       
     the Landlord s approval of the Tenant s Works in accordance with clause
9.1.1; 

9.2.2 
       
     Practical Completion of the Landlord s Works; and 

9.2.3 
       
     the Target Date, 

( the Access Date ) the Tenant shall be permitted access to the Premises in accordance with
clause 14 of this agreement for the purpose of carrying out of the Tenant s Works.

9.3 
       
      Carrying out of Tenant s Works  

The Tenant s Works shall be carried out and completed: 

9.3.1 
       
     at its own expense; 

9.3.2 
       
     without avoidable delay;

9.3.3 
       
     in a good and workmanlike manner using sound materials of good quality; 

9.3.4 
       
     by reputable contractors; 

9.3.5 
       
     in accordance with all Requisite Permissions relating to the Tenant s Works;
and 

9.3.6 
       
     in accordance with the Method Statement. 

9.4 
       
      Co-ordination with the External Works  

The Tenant shall during the carrying out of the Tenant s Works: 

9.4.1 
       
     take such precautions at all times and at its own cost as the Landlord and
its insurers or either of them may reasonably require for the protection of the
Premises and the External Works from the effect of the Tenant s Works; 

9.4.2 
       
     procure, at no cost to the Landlord, that its fitting-out contractors shall
maintain public liability insurance; 

12

9.4.3 
       
     not cause any material delay to or interference with the External Works nor
give any instruction to the contractors engaged on them and shall make good all or any
damage to the Landlord and its property caused by the carrying out of the Tenant s
Works 

provided always that the Landlord shall ensure that those carrying out the External Works
during the carrying out of the Tenant s Works shall be properly supervised and do not cause
any material delay or interference with the Tenant s Works nor give any instructions to the
contractors engaged on the Tenant s Works and shall make good all and any damage to the
Tenant, its property and the Tenant s Works caused by the carrying out of the External
Works.

9.5 
       
      CDM Regulations  

In so far as the Tenant s Works and/or any works carried out under clause 9.8 are works to
which the Regulations apply the Tenant shall: 

9.5.1 
       
     act as the client in relation to such works for the purposes of the CDM
Regulations and shall issue a declaration to that effect under regulation 4 of the CDM
Regulations and send a copy forthwith to the Landlord and the Tenant warrants that it
will not derogate in any manner from such declaration or its acceptance of
responsibilities as a client under the CDM Regulations; 

9.5.2 
       
     comply in all respects with the CDM Regulations and require that any person
involved in carrying out such works complies with the CDM Regulations. 

9.6 
       
      Health and Safety File  

Subject to clause 9.9.1, following completion of the Tenant s Works the Tenant shall liaise
with the planning supervisor (if any) employed by the Landlord for inter alia the Tenant s
Works as to any necessary updating of the Health and Safety File and supply to such
planning supervisor all information, drawings and details of the Tenant s Works as
reasonably required by such planning supervisor and use all reasonable endeavours to ensure
that such updating is completed within four weeks of completion of the Tenant s Works. 

9.7 
       
      Link Road  

The Landlord will use reasonable endeavours to ensure that the link road passing beneath
the building between the main entrance and ground floor areas remains closed to public
traffic during the carrying out of the Tenant s Works. 

9.8 
       
      Mezzanine Floor  

The Landlord consents in principle (but subject to the following provisions of this clause)
to the construction by the Tenant of a mezzanine floor or part floor above the ground floor
office ( the mezzanine works ) and, if required under the terms of the Head Lease, will use
all reasonable endeavours to procure consent of the superior landlord thereto:- 

9.8.1 
       
     the Tenant shall provide detailed drawings and specifications of the
mezzanine works for the approval of the Landlord (such approval not to be unreasonably
withheld) and, if required under the terms of the Head Lease, the superior landlord; 

13

9.8.2 
       
     the Tenant shall following such approval obtain all Requisite Permissions
for the mezzanine works; 

9.8.3 
       
     the Tenant shall not commence the mezzanine works until clauses 9.8.1 and
9.8.2 (in so far as such Requisite Permissions are capable of being obtained and/or
complied with prior to carrying out the mezzanine works) have been complied with; 

9.8.4 
       
     the Tenant shall carry out and complete the work in accordance with clause
9.3 (mutatis mutandis); 

9.8.5 
       
     the Tenant shall procure a collateral warranty in favour of the Landlord
from each of the building contractor and structural engineer engaged by the Tenant in
relation to the mezzanine works. Such collateral warranties shall be in a form no
less onerous that those published by the Joint Contracts Tribunal and Construction
Industry Council at the time of engagement, subject to such amendments as may be
required by the professional indemnity insurers of the contractor and/or the
structural engineer, as the case may be and shall be executed as a deed. 

9.9  Licence to Carry-Out Works 

9.9.1 
       
     No later than 20 working days after the completion of the Tenant s Works and
(if applicable) the mezzanine works the Tenant shall at its own cost supply the
Landlord with a complete set of the  As-Built  drawings relating to the Tenant s Works
and (if applicable) the mezzanine works; 

9.9.2 
       
     The Landlord will grant and the Tenant will take up and execute the Licence
to Carry Out Works as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within three
weeks of the date of delivery of the  As-Built  drawings pursuant to clause 9.9.1. 

9.10 
       
      Co-Ordination with the Security Package works  

The Landlord shall during the carrying out of the Security Package works: 

9.10.1 
       
     take such precautions at all times and at its own cost as the Tenant and its
insurers or either of them may reasonably require for the protection of the Premises
and the Tenant s Works from the effect of the Security Package works; 

9.10.2 
       
     procure, at no cost to the Tenant, that the contractors engaged in relation to the
Security Package works shall maintain public liability insurance; 

9.10.3 
       
     not cause any material delay to or interference with the Tenant s Works nor give any
instruction to the contractors engaged on them and shall make good all or any damage
to the Tenant, its property and the Premises caused by the carrying out of the
Security Package works 

provided always that the Tenant shall ensure that those carrying out the Tenant s Works
during the carrying out of the Security Package works shall be properly supervised and do
not cause any material delay or interference with the Security Package works nor give any
instructions to the contractors engaged on the Security Package works and shall make good
all and any damage to the Landlord, its property and the Security Package works caused by
the carrying out of the Tenant s Works.

14

10.  
       
      LANDLORD S CONTRIBUTIONS  

10.1 
       
     The Landlord shall on the grant of the Lease pay to the Tenant in cleared funds (subject to
the receipt of invoices addressed to the Landlord):- 

10.1.1 
       
     the amount of  75,000 (exclusive of VAT) as a contribution to the cost of purchasing
and installing floor boxes provided that the Tenant may use this sum as a contribution
to their overall cabling of the Premises and possible installation of grommets rather
than floor boxes; 

10.1.2 
       
     the amount of  210,125 (exclusive of VAT) as a contribution to the cost of the
Tenant of removing and disposing of the existing carpet tiles and purchasing and
laying new carpet tiles; 

10.1.3 
       
     the amount of  82,540 (exclusive of VAT) as a contribution to the cost of fitting
out the ground floor office area to Category A Standard; 

10.1.4 
       
     the amount of  43,000 (exclusive of VAT) as a contribution to the additional cost of
fitting out and in lieu of the provision of an external hoist and removal and
replacement of glazing panels for the purpose of carrying out the Tenant s Works. 

10.2 
       
     The Landlord shall on the Date of Permitted Entry pay to the Tenant in cleared funds the
amount of  5,000 towards the cost of insuring the Tenant s Works. 

11.  
       
      CAR PARKING  

11.1 
       
     The Landlord will co-operate with the Tenant in making reasonable representations to
Guildford Borough Council to seek agreement that the 100 car spaces which, under the terms of
the Head Lease, are to be available for public use at weekends and public holidays may be
exclusively used by the Tenant (here meaning Electronic Arts Limited and/or any Group Company
(as defined in the Lease) of Electronic Arts Limited in occupation of the Premises or any part
of them in accordance with the Lease) during the term of the Lease or any renewal of it. 

11.2 
       
     The Landlord and Tenant shall act in good faith and use all reasonable endeavours to obtain
the Council s agreement PROVIDED THAT neither the making of such representations nor their
outcome (successful or otherwise) shall be a pre-condition to completion of the Lease. 

11.3 
       
     Subject only to the Council s agreement, if so requested by the Tenant, the Landlord will,
without delay, enter in to a deed of variation of or supplemental to the Head Lease to give
effect to the change described in clause 11.1. 

11.4 
       
     The Landlord and Tenant will be equally responsible for the Council s reasonable and proper
costs, disbursements and VAT in relation to such deed and will otherwise each be responsible
for their own costs. 

15

11.5 
       
     The Landlord agrees not to serve notice pursuant to paragraph 1.3 of Schedule D of the Head
Lease before the date immediately prior to the expiry of three months from and including the
date of Practical Completion of the Landlord s Works without the Tenant s prior consent (such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed). 

12.  
       
      SECTION 106 AGREEMENT  

12.1 
       
     In this clause 12 and clause 15 of this Agreement the following words and expressions have
the following meanings unless the context otherwise requires: 

Art Works   means the ornamental features and/or works of art as defined in the Section 106
Agreement; and 

Staircase Works   means the refurbishment and improvement of the south western car park
staircase leading to Guildford Railway Station. 

12.2 
       
     In relation to the Art Works: 

12.2.1 
       
     the Tenant will observe and perform paragraph 1 of the First Schedule to the Section
106 Agreement and on the date of completion of the Lease the Landlord will reimburse
the Tenant (in cleared funds) in respect of the proper cost thereof up to a maximum of
forty thousand pounds ( 40,000); and 

12.2.2 
       
     if reasonably required by the Tenant, the Landlord will use all reasonable
endeavours to procure that The Council of the Borough of Guildford complies with its
obligations in paragraph 1 of the First Schedule to the Section 106 Agreement. 

12.3 
       
     In relation to the Staircase Works, the Landlord will: 

12.3.1 
       
     observe and perform paragraph 3 of the First Schedule to the Section 106 Agreement;
or 

12.3.2 
       
     secure The Council of the Borough of Guildford s agreement by: 

(A) 
       
     formal deed of variation to the Section 106 Agreement (if
required by The Council of the Borough of Guildford); or 

(B) 
       
     otherwise (and evidenced in a manner acceptable to the
Tenant acting reasonably) 

to carry out the Staircase Works at the Landlord s cost

and in either case by the Target Date.

12.4 
       
     The Landlord will forthwith make any payments under the Section 106 Agreement that have not
been made (in particular the balance of twenty five thousand pounds ( 25,000) due to The
Council of the Borough of Guildford pursuant to paragraph 2.3 of the First Schedule) and
indemnify the Tenant against all actions, claims, demands and proceedings made against the
Tenant and all costs, expenses, liabilities and losses incurred directly or indirectly by the
Tenant as a result of any breach of the Section 106 Agreement (other than any breach due to
the non observance or non performance of paragraph 1 of the First Schedule to the Section 106
Agreement and/or the provisions relating to green travel plan 

16

13.1 
       
     The Landlord shall (to the extent it has not already done so) supply full details of the
draft Green Travel Plan which it has caused to be prepared and will afford all reasonable
assistance to the Tenant (including providing details of contributions made to highway
improvements) in this regard to facilitate the agreement of the plan in accordance with
paragraph (a) of the third schedule to the Section 106 Agreement. 

13.2 
       
     Subject to clause 13.1, the Tenant shall agree and implement a Green Travel Plan prior to the
Date of Permitted Entry in accordance with paragraph (a) of the third schedule to the Section
106 Agreement. 

14.  
       
      OCCUPATION  

(the
  Date of Permitted Entry  ) and until the grant of the Lease the Tenant may occupy the
Premises.

14.2 
       
     The Tenant s occupation of the Premises shall be as licensee and (whether or not it is in
occupation of the Premises) the Tenant shall pay the Landlord immediately after and with
effect from the Date of Permitted Entry a licence fee equivalent in all respects (relating to
amount and the timing manner method and apportionment of payment) to the several rents
expressed to be payable from time to time in the Lease together with Value Added Tax thereon
as if the Lease had actually been granted for a term commencing on the Date of Permitted Entry
 PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT  the Tenant shall not be obliged to pay a licence fee equivalent to the
rent first reserved by the Lease for any period prior to the Rent Commencement Date. 

14.3 
       
     The parties shall otherwise perform and observe all the covenants and conditions on their
respective parts to be contained in the Lease. 

14.4 
       
     This agreement shall not operate as a demise nor confer any proprietary right in the Premises
(other than one to occupy as licensee) on the Tenant. 

14.5 
       
     Prior to the Date of Permitted Entry the Landlord will procure that Elite Security s contract
is determined insofar as it relates to the Premises. 

15.  
       
      LEASE GRANT  

15.1 
       
      Engrossment of the Lease  

The Landlord s solicitors shall prepare the engrossments of the Lease and a counterpart of
it. 

17

15.2 
       
      Completion of the Lease  

The Tenant and (in consideration of the Landlord having entered into this agreement at the
Guarantor s request) the Guarantor shall execute and deliver the counterpart and the
Landlord shall execute and grant the Lease on the tenth working day next after the later
of: 

(whether or not the Tenant shall take access under this agreement).

15.3 
       
      Terms of the Lease  

The following provisions shall apply in relation to the grant of the Lease: 

15.3.1 
       
     the Term shall be computed from the Date of Permitted Entry; 

15.3.2 
       
     the rent first reserved under the Lease shall be due and commence to be payable on
the Rent Commencement Date; 

15.3.3 
       
     the Insurance Rent under the Lease shall be payable from the Date of Permitted Entry 

provided that credit shall be given for all payments made by the Tenant pursuant to clause
14 in relation to the same period(s) of time.

15.4 
       
      Determination  

If Practical Completion of the Landlord s Works has not occurred on or before the
1 st  September 2006 the Tenant may determine this agreement by written notice to
the Landlord to that effect at any time thereafter and if Practical Completion of the
Landlord s Works has not occurred by 31 st  December 2006 either the Landlord or
the Tenant may determine this agreement by written notice to the other to that effect and
clause 18.2 and 18.3 of this agreement shall apply. 

15.5 
       
      Compensation for delay  

If Practical Completion of the Landlord s Works occurs after the Target Date as extended
pursuant to clause 2.2.4 the Landlord will pay the Tenant liquidated damages in the sum of
 8,219 (exclusive of VAT) per day for each day from and including the 2 nd  June
2006 to and excluding the later of the Access Date and the date on which this agreement is
determined in accordance with clause 15.4 of this agreement. 

15.6 
       
      Opinion Letter  

The Guarantor shall deliver the duly signed Opinion Letter to the Landlord on exchange of
this agreement. 

16.  
       
      LOCAL LAND CHARGES ETC.  

The Lease will be granted subject to: 

16.1 
       
     all local land charges whether registered or not before or after the date hereof and all
matters capable of registration as local land charges whether or not actually so registered; 

18

16.2 
       
     all notices orders resolutions restrictions agreements directions and proposals therefor made
by any local or other competent authority before or after the date hereof; 

16.3

16.3.1 
       
     any matters which are unregistered interests which override registered dispositions
under Schedule 3 to the Land Registration Act 2002 ;  

16.3.2 
       
     such unregistered interests as may affect the Premises to the extent and so long as
they are preserved by the transitional provisions of Schedule 12 of the Land
Registration Act 2002; and 

16.4 
       
     all matters contained in or referred to in schedule 2 to the Lease. 

17.  
       
      TITLE  

The Landlord s title to grant the Lease having been deduced the Tenant shall not raise any
objection to that title and the Landlord shall not be required to reply to any requisitions
on that title except in relation to any matters not previously disclosed which are revealed
by the Tenant s solicitors pre-completion searches at HM Land Registry. 

18.  
       
      DETERMINATION  

18.1 
       
      Prior Notice  

The Landlord or the Tenant may determine this agreement by written notice to the other to
that effect in the event that:- 

18.1.1 
       
     there shall be any material breach of their obligations to the other under this
agreement and such breach (if capable of remedy) shall continue for and not be
remedied to the reasonable satisfaction of the party not in breach within twenty
working days after service of a notice specifying the breach; or 

18.1.2 
       
     a Default Event occurs and within fourteen working days thereof the relevant party
shall not have set aside or rectified the Default Event 

and in such event the Landlord shall be entitled to re-enter upon and take possession of
the Premises and this agreement shall cease.

18.2 
       
      Saving Clause  

The determination of this agreement shall be without prejudice to any other rights or
remedies of the parties for the breach non-observance or non-performance of any of the
other s obligations under this agreement. 

18.3 
       
      Cancellation of Land Registry Notice  

In the event of such determination the Tenant shall forthwith cancel or procure the
cancellation of any notice or other entry registered at the Land Registry relating to the
interest of the Tenant in this agreement or the Premises. 

19

19.  
       
      REPRESENTATIONS  

The Tenant and the Guarantor severally acknowledge that they have not relied on any
representation by or on behalf of the Landlord in entering into this agreement apart from
the Landlord s solicitors  written replies to the Tenant s written enquiries before
contract. 

20.  
       
      ALIENATION  

20.1 
       
     The Tenant shall not assign or otherwise deal with the benefit of this agreement in whole or
in part nor prior to the grant of the Lease make any disposition of the Premises save by way
of charge permitted by clause 20.2. 

20.2 
       
     The Tenant may with the prior consent of the Landlord (such approval not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed) charge this agreement to secure building finance in respect of the
Tenant s Works from any institution pension fund bank or similar body. 

20.3 
       
     The Landlord shall not assign or otherwise deal with the benefit of this agreement in whole
or in part nor prior to the grant of the Lease make any disposition of the Premises save as
permitted by clause 20.4. 

20.4 
       
     In the event of the demutalisation of the Standard Life Assurance Company the Landlord may
without the consent of the Tenant assign this agreement to the entity which assumes the
assets, liabilities and obligations of the Standard Life Assurance Company. 

21.  
       
      INSURANCE  

21.1 
       
      Insurance of Landlord s Works by Landlord  

Until Practical Completion the Landlord shall insure or cause to be insured with insurers
of good repute the existing structure of the Premises, the Landlord s Works, the External
Works, the Outstanding Works and the Snagging Works and all unfixed goods and materials
against all risks usually covered by a contractors comprehensive all risks insurance policy
including but not limited to the risks of fire storm earthquake tempest flood lightning
explosion aircraft and aerial devices and articles dropped therefrom heave subsidence riot
or civil commotion malicious damage impact bursting and overflowing of water tanks
apparatus or pipes in an amount equal to the full cost of reinstating the Premises, the
Landlord s Works, the External Works, the Outstanding Works and the Snagging Works in the
event of their damage or destruction together with the cost of debris removal demolition
site clearance and architects  surveyors  and other professional fees including Value Added
Tax on all such costs goods and materials fees and expenses subject to all exclusions and
limitations reasonably imposed by the insurers or underwriters. 

21.2 
       
      Insurance of Tenant s Works by the Tenant  

From commencement of the Tenant s Works until practical completion of the Tenant s Works
the Tenant shall insure or cause to be insured with insurers of good repute the Tenant s
Works and all unfixed goods and materials against risks required to be covered by the all
risks insurance required by and defined in the Standard Form of Building Contract Private
with Quantities 1998 Edition (for the purposes of clause 21  JCT98 ) in an amount equal to
the full cost of reinstating the Tenant s Works in the event of their damage or destruction
together with the cost of debris removal demolition site clearance and architects 
surveyors  and other professional fees including Value Added tax on all such costs goods
and materials fees and expenses subject to all exclusions and limitations
reasonably imposed by the insurers or underwriters. 

20

21.3 
       
      Insurance from Practical Completion  

With effect from the Date of Practical Completion the Landlord s insurance obligations
pursuant to Clause 21.1 shall cease and thereafter the Landlord shall comply with its
insurance covenants contained in the Lease and shall notify its insurers that works are
still being carried out by or on behalf of the Landlord and the value of such works,
provided that the Landlord shall procure that such insurance shall cover the Tenant s
obligation to insure the existing structure of the Premises pursuant to and in accordance
with clause 22C.1 of JCT98 including, without limitation, including the Tenant as joint
insured. 

21.4 
       
      Waiver of subrogation rights and basic terms of insurance  

The Landlord in relation to the policy(ies) of insurance to be effected by it pursuant to
respectively Clause 21.1 and 21.3 shall procure that the insurers shall waive all rights of
subrogation against the Tenant. 

21.5 
       
      Production and inspection of policies  

The Landlord and the Tenant shall on demand each produce to the other for inspection the
policy or policies of insurance maintained in accordance with the requirements of Clause 21
and the receipt for the last premium due or other sufficient evidence of payment thereof. 

21.6 
       
      Destruction of Landlord s Works  

The Landlord shall notify the Tenant promptly upon the occurrence of any material damage to
or material destruction of the Landlord s Works (whether or not caused by any of the risks
insured against) occurring before Practical Completion and in any such case (subject to
receipt of all necessary Requisite Permissions and compliance with this agreement) shall
rebuild repair and otherwise reinstate the Landlord s Works as soon as practicable. 

22.  
       
      CONFIDENTIALITY  

None of the parties (including their agents employees or representatives) shall disclose or
permit or suffer to be disclosed any of the contents or the existence of this agreement
except and to the extent that such disclosure may be required by law by its reporting
requirements or by the requirements of the UK Listing Authority or the London Stock
Exchange PLC. 

23.  
       
      CAPITAL ALLOWANCES  

The Landlord shall use all reasonable endeavours at the request and reasonable cost of the
Tenant to assist the Tenant in obtaining the benefit of any capital allowances which may be
available to the Tenant in respect of the Tenant s Works and any qualifying plant and
machinery purchased by the Tenant with the sums described in clause 10 of this agreement
and the Landlord at the request and reasonable cost of the Tenant will execute any election
which may be required to enable the Tenant to claim and receive the benefit of such capital
allowances. 

21

24.  
       
      NOTICES  

24.1 
       
     Any notice served under this agreement shall be validly served if: 

24.1.1 
       
     it is sent by facsimile transmission or by recorded delivery post or personally
delivered to the registered office of the party being served or to such alternative
address as it shall nominate in writing for that purpose; or 

24.1.2 
       
     it is served in accordance with Section 196 of the Law of Property Act 1925 (as
amended by the Recorded Delivery Act 1962). 

24.2 
       
     If the Tenant or the Guarantor comprises more than one person it shall be sufficient service
on the Tenant or the Guarantor if notice is served on one of them. 

24.3 
       
     The Landlord need not serve on the Guarantor a notice which is duly served on the Tenant and
the Guarantor shall not be relieved of any obligation or liability under this agreement
because it has not received any such notice. 

25.  
       
      VALUE ADDED TAX ( VAT )  

25.1 
       
     All sums payable under this agreement by the Tenant to the Landlord or by the Landlord to the
Tenant shall be deemed to be exclusive of VAT. 

25.2 
       
     Subject to the Landlord having made an election for the purposes of paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Schedule 10 to the Value Added Tax Act 1994 in relation to the Premises and subject to the
Landlord having supplied to the Tenant a copy of such election and subject further to HM
Revenue   Customs not having refused to accept such election where pursuant to the terms of
this agreement the Landlord makes a supply to the Tenant or vice versa and VAT is payable in
respect of such supply the party receiving such supply shall pay to the party making the
supply on delivery of a valid VAT invoice in respect thereof a sum equal to the amount of VAT
so payable and shall make such payment: 

25.2.1 
       
     on the date of such supply; or 

25.2.2 
       
     if later, on the date on which a valid VAT invoice in respect of the relevant amount
addressed to the receiving party is issued to that party if such VAT invoice is
legally required to enable the said party to obtain a credit from H.M. Revenue  
Customs for such amount. 

25.3 
       
     Where the party receiving the supply fails to pay any such amount in full on the relevant
date specified in Clause 25.2 that receiving party shall also pay to the party making the
supply interest on such amount at the base rate from time to time of Barclays Bank plc from
the date on which the supplier was liable to account to HM Revenue   Customs for the VAT in
respect of such supply until the date payment is made by the recipient of the supply to the
person making the supply PROVIDED THAT where the due date for payment by either party of any
amount in respect of VAT is determined by reference to the issue of a VAT invoice as mentioned
in Clause 25.2 above, that party shall not be liable to make any payment under this Clause
25.3 provided that any amount in respect of VAT payable by it is paid by it within twenty
working days after the issue of such invoice. 

22

26.  
       
      NON-MERGER  

This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding the grant of the
Lease to the extent that any provisions are still to be observed and performed. 

27.  
       
      GUARANTEE  

In consideration of the Landlord having entered into this agreement at the Guarantor s
request the Guarantor as primary obligor guarantees and agrees with the Landlord that: 

27.1 
       
     the Tenant will perform its obligations in this agreement; and 

27.2 
       
     it will make good to and indemnify the Landlord against all losses damages costs and expenses
caused by any default by the Tenant; and 

27.3 
       
     no time or indulgence granted to the Tenant by the Landlord nor any variation of the terms of
this agreement nor any other thing by virtue of which but for this provision the Guarantor
would have been released will in any way release the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder to
the Landlord under this Clause; and 

27.4 
       
     it will execute the counterpart Lease as Guarantor for the Tenant when called upon to do so
by the Landlord; and 

27.5 
       
     if at any time before the completion of the Lease any Default Event occurs in relation to the
Tenant or where the Tenant comprises one or more persons occurs in relation to any one of
those persons then the Landlord may at any time before completion of the Lease invoke the
provisions of Clause 27.6 by written notice served on the Tenant unless a party has previously
served notice pursuant to Clause 18.1 in respect of that or any other event or either party
has served notice pursuant to clause 15.4; and 

27.6 
       
     immediately on service of a notice pursuant to Clause 27.5 but without prejudice to any
pre-existing right of action of any party in respect of any breach by any other party of its
obligations under this agreement the rights of the Tenant under this agreement shall cease and
determine and this agreement shall have effect from the date of the notice as if the
obligation to accept the Lease and the other obligations of the Tenant contained in this
agreement were the primary obligations of the Guarantor and the Guarantor will when requisite
execute and deliver a counterpart of the Lease in lieu of the Tenant on the terms of this
agreement and will take up the Lease on its grant. 

28.  
       
      JURISDICTION  

This agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of England and
the Guarantor submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English Courts and irrevocably
agrees that any process may be served on it by leaving a copy of the relevant documents at
the Premises and each party undertakes to notify the other of any change from time to time
of such address for service and to maintain an appropriate address at all times. 

29.  
       
      EXCLUSION OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS  

Each party confirms that no term of this agreement is enforceable under the Contracts
(Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 by a person who is not a party to this agreement. 

23

30.  
       
      PROTECTING AGREEMENT AGAINST LANDLORD S TITLE  

The Tenant shall not be entitled to note this Agreement any rights granted in the Lease
against the Landlord s registered title other than by a unilateral notice. 

IN WITNESS  whereof the parties have respectively executed this agreement as a deed and delivered it
on the date hereof.

On one part  

SIGNED and DELIVERED  as a deed by

as the Attorney of  THE STANDARD 
LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY  
(in exercise of a Power of Attorney 
under its Seal dated 
in the presence of:

On other part  

EXECUTED  as a deed by

) 

ELECTRONIC ARTS LIMITED 

) 

acting by two directors or a

) 

director and its secretary

) 

EXECUTED  as a deed by

) 

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC 

) 

acting by two directors or a

) 

director and its secretary

) 

24

Herbert Smith

DATED       2006  

THE STANDARD LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY 

and

ELECTRONIC ARTS LIMITED 

and

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. 

UNDERLEASE 
of 
Onslow House, Guildford, Surrey 
affecting title numbers SY702491 and SY706210 

Herbert Smith LLP

1

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

2

3

PARTICULARS 

DATE 
       
     2006 

PART 1  

Landlord  

THE STANDARD LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY whose head office
is at Standard Life House 30 Lothian Road Edinburgh
EH1 2DH (Co. Regn. No. SZ000004) 

Tenant  

ELECTRONIC ARTS LIMITED whose registered office is at
2000 Hillswood Drive Chertsey Surrey KT16 OEU (Co.
Regn. No. 02057591 

Guarantor  

Any person who, for the time being, guarantees
performance of the Tenant s obligations that person
currently being ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. whose registered
office is at 209 Redwood Shares Parkway, Redwood City,
California 94065 (a corporation incorporated in the
State of Delaware) 

Premises  

Onslow House Guildford being the premises described in 
schedule 1 

Term Commencement Date  

As per the Agreement for Lease  

Term  

10 years from and including the Term Commencement Date 

Yearly Rent  

2,193,252 per annum (and increased as per clause 3.1) 

Rent Commencement Date  

As per the Agreement for Lease  

Review Date  

5 years from and including the Term Commencement Date 

Review Rent  

2,512,211 per annum 

Permitted Use  

Use as good quality offices for any purpose within
Class B1(a) (but not for any other purpose within that
Use Class) of the schedule to the Town and Country
Planning (Use (Class) Order 1987. 

PART 2  

Term Expiry Date

10 years from and including the Term Commencement Date 

Landlord and Tenant Act
1954

Not excluded 

Interest on late payments

3% above base rate 

4

THIS UNDERLEASE  made on the date and between the parties specified in the Particulars

WITNESSES  as follows:

1.  
       
      DEFINITIONS  

The following expressions and those defined in Part 1 of the Particulars have the
respective specified meanings: 

1954 Act   means the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 as amended; 

Development   has the meaning given by Planning Law; 

Enactment   means every Act of Parliament, directive and regulation and all subordinate
legislation which, at any relevant time during the Term, has legal effect in England and
Wales; 

Group Company   means any company which is either the holding company of the Tenant or a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Tenant or of the Tenant s holding company, as those
expressions are defined in section 736 Companies Act 1985 and, for the purposes of clause
4.15.5(C)(2)(b)(ii), any company which has the same relationship with the relevant
underlessee; 

Head Lease   means the lease under which the Landlord holds the Premises dated 16 March
2001 made between The Council of the Borough of Guildford (1) and the Landlord (2) and
  Superior Landlord   means the person for the time being entitled to the reversion
immediately expectant on the term granted by the Head Lease and every other person having
an interest in reversion to that term; 

Insurance Cost   means all the money which the Landlord properly spends on: 

(A) 
       
     effecting and maintaining insurance against the Insured Risks in relation to
the Premises for whatever amount the Landlord reasonably considers represents the
Premises  full replacement cost with such allowance as the Landlord reasonably
considers appropriate for related liabilities and expenses (including, without
limitation, liability to pay proper fees or charges on the submission of an
application for planning permission and proper costs which might be incurred in
complying with any Enactment, in carrying out any replacement work and sums for proper
professional fees and incidental expenses which might be incurred on any debris
removal and replacement, and all VAT); 

(B) 
       
     effecting and maintaining any insurance relating to the Landlord s property
owner s and employer s liability in relation to the Premises and anything done in
them; and 

(C) 
       
     reasonable and proper professional fees relating to insurance, including fees
for insurance valuations carried out at reasonable intervals not more frequently than
once in every three years from the last valuation; 

Insurance Rent   means, for any relevant period, all of: 

(A) 
       
     the Insurance Cost for the relevant period; 

1

(B) 
       
     the amount which the Landlord properly spends on effecting and maintaining
insurance against not less than five years  loss of the rent first reserved by this
lease and with any addition to the amount insured as the Landlord may reasonably
decide in respect of VAT; 

(C) 
       
     (without prejudice to all other provisions of this lease relating to the use
of the Premises and the vitiation of any policy of insurance) any amount which the
Landlord properly spends on all additional premiums and loadings on any policy of
insurance required as a result of anything done or omitted by the Tenant; and 

(D) 
       
     an amount equal to the total of all excess sums which the insurers are not
liable to pay out on any insurance claim in respect of the Premises and which the
Landlord has paid in replacing the damaged or destroyed parts of the Premises; 

Insured Risks   means any loss caused by fire, lightning, explosion, riot, civil commotion,
strikes, labour and political disturbances and malicious damage, aircraft and aerial
devices, (other than hostile aircraft and devices) and articles accidentally dropped from
them, storm, tempest, flood, bursting or overflowing of water tanks and pipes, impact,
earthquake and accidental damage to underground water, oil and gas pipes, or electricity
wires and cables, subsidence, ground slip and heave, breakdown and sudden and unforeseen
damage to engineering plant and equipment, damage caused to the Premises by theft and
terrorism if cover is available at reasonable cost and such other risks or perils against
which the Landlord may insure, subject to such exclusions and limitations as are imposed by
the insurers; 

Order   means the Regulatory Reform (Business Tenancies) (England and Wales) Order 2003; 

Particulars   means the particulars set out at the beginning of this lease; 

Permitted Part   means any part of the Premises comprising the whole of one or more
complete floor levels or the whole of one or more wings which are shown hatched red, blue
and yellow on the Plans, excluding the ground floor entrance lobby area shown cross hatched
black on the Plans, all load bearing parts and all circulation areas and plant equipment
which are common to that part of the Premises and the remainder of them; 

Planning Law   means every Enactment and, to the extent they relate to the Premises, every
planning permission, statutory consent and agreement, made pursuant to any Enactment
relating to the use, development and occupation of land and buildings; 

Plans   means the plans annexed to this lease; 

Public Authority   means any government department, public, local, regulatory, fire and any
other authority, any institution having functions which extend to the Premises or their use
or occupation, any court of law, any company or authority responsible for the supply of
utilities, and any of their duly authorised officers; 

Section 106 Agreement   means an agreement dated 8th September 2000 and made between (1)
The Council of the Borough of Guildford (2) Tilebox Limited (3) The Council of the Borough
of Guildford and (4) Surrey County Council; 

2

Stipulated Rate   means a yearly rate of interest, calculated on a daily basis, three per
cent above the base rate of the Bank of Scotland or of such other U.K. bank as the Landlord
may reasonably nominate at any time; and 

VAT   means Value Added Tax as referred to in the Value Added Tax Act 1994 (or any tax of a
similar nature which may be substituted for, or levied in addition to, it). 

2.  
       
      INTERPRETATION  

2.1 
       
     Where a party is more than one person, their obligations are joint and several. 

2.2 
       
     A Tenant s obligation not to do or omit anything also operates as an obligation not to permit
or suffer it to be done or omitted by any person deriving title from the Tenant or by their
respective servants or agents and to prevent or, as the case may be, to require it being done. 

2.3 
       
     References to: 

(A) 
       
     any clause or schedule are references to the relevant clause or schedule of
this lease and any reference to a sub-clause or paragraph is a reference to that
sub-clause or paragraph of the clause or schedule in which the reference appears; 

(B) 
       
     any right of or obligation to permit the Landlord to enter the Premises shall
also be construed, subject as provided in clause 4.9, as entitling the Landlord to
remain on the Premises with or without equipment and permitting such right to be
exercised by all persons authorised by the Landlord; 

(C) 
       
     any consent of the Landlord, or words to similar effect including references
to approvals, mean a written consent signed by or on behalf of the Landlord and given
before the act requiring consent and any such reference which states that the consent
will not be unreasonably withheld also means that it will not be unreasonably delayed; 

(D) 
       
     the Premises (except in the definition of Premises and of Permitted Part and
in clauses 4.15 and 6.5) extend, where the context permits, to any part of the
Premises; 

(E) 
       
     a specific Enactment include every modification, consolidation and
re-enactment and extension of it for the time being in force, except in relation to
the Town and Country Planning (Use Classes) Order 1987, which shall be interpreted
exclusively by reference to the original provisions of Statutory Instrument 1987 No
764 whether or not it may have been revoked or modified; 

(F) 
       
     the expiry of this lease mean the date when the tenancy constituted by it
terminates either at the end or sooner determination of the Term or pursuant to any
applicable Enactment and references to the last year of this lease mean the year
ending on the expiry of this lease; 

(G) 
       
     rents or other sums being due from the Tenant to the Landlord mean that they
are exclusive of any VAT; 

(H) 
       
     the Tenant s obligations mean the Tenant s obligations under this lease and
under every agreement which is supplemental or collateral to it; and 

3

(I) 
       
     The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors extend to its President or
acting President for the time being. 

2.4 
       
     Clause and paragraph headings shall not affect the construction of this lease. 

2.5 
     (A)  
       
     When the Landlord s consent is required under this lease, the
relevant provision shall be construed as also requiring (and any
consent by the Landlord shall be deemed to be given subject to the
need for) any necessary consent of the Superior Landlord, for which
the Landlord shall apply at the Tenant s reasonable and proper cost,
and nothing in this lease, or in any consent by the Landlord, shall
imply that the Superior Landlord s consent will not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed; 

(B) 
       
     references to any right of (or obligation to permit) the Landlord
to enter the Premises extend to the Superior Landlord and to all
persons authorised by it and shall be construed in the manner required
by clause 2.3(B); and 

(C) 
       
     this lease takes effect subject to the rights which are reserved
out of the Head Lease. 

3.  
       
      DEMISE AND RENTS  

The Landlord at the request of the Guarantor  DEMISES  the Premises to the Tenant  TOGETHER
WITH  for the benefit of the Tenant, and others authorised by it at any time during the Term
or otherwise entitled to exercise them, the rights specified in Part II of Schedule 1
 EXCEPT  and  RESERVED  to the Landlord, and other persons authorised by it at any time during
the Term or otherwise entitled to exercise them, the rights specified in Part III of
schedule 1  TO HOLD  the Premises to the Tenant for the Term  SUBJECT  to all existing rights,
obligations and other matters affecting them, 

THE TENANT PAYING TO THE LANDLORD : 

3.1 
       
     Yearly and proportionately for any part of a year, until the Rent Commencement Date a
peppercorn (if demanded) and thereafter until the Review Date the Yearly Rent and thereafter
the Review Rent, by equal quarterly payments in advance on the usual quarter days in every
year, the first payment of the Yearly Rent or a proportionate part of it (being a proportion
from and including the Rent Commencement Date to and excluding the first quarter day
thereafter) to be made on the Rent Commencement Date; 

3.2 
       
     The Insurance Rent, payable on demand; 

3.3 
       
     Interest payable on demand, at the Stipulated Rate on any sum owed to the Landlord pursuant
to the Tenant s obligations, whether or not as rent, which is not received by the Landlord on
the due date (or, in the case of money due only on demand, within fourteen days after the date
of demand), calculated for the period commencing on the due payment date and ending on the
date the sum (and the interest) is received by the Landlord; and 

3.4 
       
     All VAT for which the Landlord is or may become liable on the supply by the Landlord to the
Tenant in connection with this lease or the interest created by it and of any other supplies,
whether of goods or services, such VAT to be paid at the same time as the other rents or sums
to which it relates. 

4.  
       
      TENANT S OBLIGATIONS  

The Tenant agrees with the Landlord: 

4

4.1  
       
      Rent  

To pay the rents reserved by this lease on the days and in the manner set out in clause 3
without deduction or set off and (unless the Landlord agrees otherwise) to pay the Yearly
Rent (together with any VAT on it) by banker s standing order to such bank as the Landlord
may nominate at any time. 

4.2  
       
      VAT  

To pay the Landlord an amount equal to any VAT incurred by it on any amount which the
Tenant is required to reimburse or indemnify the Landlord against pursuant to the Tenant s
obligations, except to the extent the Landlord obtains credit for such VAT pursuant to
sections 24, 25 and 26 Value Added Tax Act 1994 or any regulations made under them. 

4.3  
       
      Outgoings  

4.3.1 
       
     To pay all rates, taxes and other outgoings assessed on or reasonably attributable to the
Premises or on their owner or occupier during the Term excluding, without prejudice to the
rent reserved in clause 3.4 and to clause 4.2, any tax payable by the Landlord as a direct
result of any actual or implied dealing with the reversion of this lease or of the Landlord s
receipt of income. 

4.3.2 
       
     To pay all charges for water, gas and electricity (including meter rents) consumed in the
Premises during the Term. 

4.4  
       
      Compliance with Enactments  

(Without prejudice to the provisions of clause 5.4) to comply with all Enactments and with
the requirements of any Public Authority affecting the Premises, their use, occupation,
employment of people in them and any work being carried out to them (whether the
requirements are imposed upon the owner, lessee or occupier) and not to do or omit anything
by which the Landlord may incur any liability under any Enactment or requirement of a
Public Authority. 

4.5  
       
      Official communications  

Without delay, to supply the Landlord with a true copy of any official communication
received from, or proposal made by, any Public Authority and to comply fully with its
provisions at the Tenant s cost, except that (if requested by the Landlord and at its cost)
the Tenant shall make such representations as the Landlord may reasonably require against
any communication or proposal, so long as the representations do not conflict with the
Tenant s rights under this lease. 

4.6  
       
      Repair  

4.6.1 
       
     (Without prejudice to the provisions of clause 5.4), well and substantially to repair the
Premises and maintain and keep them in good and substantial repair and condition (damage by
any of the Insured Risks excepted, to the extent that this lease obliges the Landlord to
insure against them and to the extent that the insurance money is not rendered irrecoverable
or insufficient because of a breach of the Tenant s obligations) provided that the Tenant s
obligations under this clause shall not extend to any liability of the Superior Landlord to
repair under clauses 4.3.1 and 4.4 of the Head Lease. 

5

4.6.2 
       
     (Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing) to keep in a good state of repair and
condition and cleanliness the carpeting and ceiling tiles in the Premises and to replace the
same in the last three months of the Term (howsoever determined) in such colours and patterns
as the Landlord may reasonably require. 

4.7  
       
      Decoration and general condition  

4.7.1 
       
     To keep the Premises clean and in the fifth and last years of this lease to redecorate and
treat the Premises with appropriate materials in a good and workmanlike manner (and during the
last year of this lease in a colour scheme and with materials reasonably approved by the
Landlord) but the Tenant shall not be obliged to redecorate or treat the Premises if the need
to do so is caused by any of the Insured Risks, to the extent the insurance money is not
rendered irrecoverable or insufficient because of a breach of the Tenant s obligations. 

4.7.2 
       
     To enter into and maintain contracts for the regular inspection maintenance and servicing of
all fixed plant and equipment comprised in the Premises by reputable contractors and to obtain
satisfactory test certificates as may be reasonably required by the insurers and, whenever
reasonably required, to produce copies of such contracts and certificates to the Landlord. 

4.8  
       
      Refuse  

To ensure the removal of refuse from the Premises at least once a week. 

4.9  
       
      Entry by the Landlord  

To permit the Landlord, at reasonable times on reasonable prior written notice (except in
an emergency), to enter the Premises in order to: 

(A) 
       
     investigate whether the Tenant has complied with its obligations created by
this lease; 

(B) 
       
     take any measurement or valuation of the Premises; 

(C) 
       
     fix and retain on the Premises, without interference but in a position which
does not materially affect their amenity, a notice for their disposal and to allow the
Landlord to show the Premises to prospective purchasers and their agents and, during
the last ten months of the Term, to prospective tenants and their agents; and 

(D) 
       
     to exercise the rights described in Part II of schedule 1, 

provided the Landlord causes as little interference as reasonably possible to the Tenant s
use of the Premises for its business (except where it is necessary to do so in order to
comply with any obligation to the Tenant) and, if the Landlord exercises any of the rights
by carrying out work on the Premises, it shall make good any damage caused to them and to
any of the Tenant s chattels straight away, unless the right has been exercised because of
some material breach of the Tenant s obligations. 

4.10  
       
      Remedying breaches  

4.10.1 
       
     To comply with any notice requiring remedy of any breach of the Tenant s obligations. 

6

4.10.2 
       
     If the Tenant does not comply with any such notice within a reasonable time, to permit the
Landlord to enter the Premises to remedy the breach, as the Tenant s agent . 

4.10.3 
       
     To pay the Landlord, on demand, all the reasonable costs and expenses properly incurred by
the Landlord in exercising its rights under this clause. 

4.11  
       
      Preserving rights  

4.11.1 
       
     To preserve all rights of light and other easements belonging to the Premises and not to
give any acknowledgement that they are enjoyed by consent. 

4.11.2 
       
     Not to do or omit anything which might subject the Premises to any new easement and to
notify the Landlord, without delay, of any encroachment which might have that effect. 

4.12  
       
      Alterations and reinstatement  

4.12.1 
       
     Not to carry out: 

(A) 
       
     any Development and not to commit any waste; 

(B) 
       
     any work which adversely affects any load bearing structure of the Premises; 

(C) 
       
     the erection of any structure on the Premises (subject to clause 4.14). 

4.12.2 
       
     Not to carry out any structural alterations to the Premises or any alterations which affect
the external appearance of the Premises or any alterations to capital plant within the
Premises without the Landlord s consent which will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and
which shall be deemed granted if no response to the Tenant s application is received by the
Tenant within 10 working days of receipt of the application by the Landlord and provided that
the Tenant s application contains reasonable details and supporting documentation relating to
the proposed alterations. 

4.12.3 
       
     Subject to the other provisions of this clause, any other alteration or addition to the
Premises will not require the Landlord s consent. 

4.12.4 
       
     On making alterations or additions to the Premises for which the Landlord has insurance
obligations, to provide the Landlord without delay with a written, independent, current
insurance (VAT exclusive) valuation of the work, for replacement purposes. 

4.12.5 
       
     The Tenant shall provide the Landlord within four weeks of completion of any works carried
out under this clause 4.12 with detailed drawings and specifications relating to such works. 

4.12.6 
       
     At the expiry of this lease to: 

(A) 
       
     remove all alterations and additions made at any time to the Premises, and
anything installed under clause 4.14.2, by the Tenant or by any person deriving title
from it; 

(B) 
       
     remove all work done in connection with the original fitting out of the
Premises by the Tenant pursuant to the agreement for the grant of
this lease dated      
   and to restore and make good the Premises in a proper and workmanlike manner to
the condition and design which existed before the relevant work was carried out, to
the Landlord s reasonable satisfaction. 

7

provided that if either include the addition of a mezzanine area between the ground and
first floors, the Tenant shall not be obliged to remove it and instead shall reinstate the
ground and mezzanine areas (which for the avoidance of doubt may not necessarily be a
complete floor) to an office standard with suspended ceiling, raised floor, carpet tiles
and painted plaster to wall surfaces. All finishes shall be to a standard in keeping with
the remainder of the building. The Tenant shall install ceiling mounted air distribution
from existing Landlord s plant and ducts to the area. For the avoidance of doubt, if the
mezzanine area is less than 70% of the area of the ground floor and is left open to the
ground floor, the air distribution will be provided to only one ceiling of one floor level. 

4.13  
       
      Use  

Not to use the Premises: 

(A) 
       
     for any purpose which causes a nuisance, disturbance or obstruction to any
person or property; 

(B) 
       
     for any public auction or public meeting or for any noxious, noisy or immoral
use or one which would cause diplomatic or State immunity from the Tenant s
obligations or for the business of a government agency which the public visit without
appointment or (except as incidental to the Permitted Use) for the transmission of
telecommunications signals; or 

(C) 
       
     (without prejudice to the preceding paragraphs of this clause) except for the
Permitted Use. 

4.14  
       
      Signs ,  aerials etc  

4.14.1 
       
     Not to erect anything on the outside of the Premises except the Tenant s usual corporate
signage referred to in clause 4.14.2 

4.14.2 
       
     (Subject to obtaining all necessary planning consents) to display and maintain on the
exterior of the Premises the Tenant s usual corporate signage reasonably approved (as to
siting, design and appearance) by the Landlord, showing the name (or trading name) of every
permitted occupier of the Premises. 

4.15  
       
      Dealings with the lease  

4.15.1 
       
     In clause 4.15, any reference to a transfer includes an assignment. 

4.15.2 
       
     Not to transfer, mortgage, charge, hold on trust for another, underlet or otherwise part
with possession of part only of the Premises or agree to do so, except that the Tenant may
underlet the whole of (but not more or less than) any Permitted Part, if it first complies or,
where appropriate, procures compliance with the conditions described in clauses 4.15.5 and
4.15.6. 

4.15.3 
       
     Not to transfer, hold on trust for another, underlet or otherwise part with possession of
the whole of the Premises or agree to do so, except that the Tenant may transfer or underlet
the whole of the Premises if, before the transfer or underletting is completed, the Tenant
complies or, where appropriate, procures compliance with the conditions described in clause
4.15.4 or clause 4.15.5, as applicable. 

8

(Transfer)  

4.15.4 
       
     Not to transfer the whole of the Premises without complying with the following conditions
(which are specified for the purposes of section 19(1A) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927
and which operate without prejudice to the Landlord s right to withhold consent on any
reasonable ground): 

(A) 
       
     if the proposed transfer is to a non Group Company: 

(1) 
       
     that the Tenant enters into an authorised guarantee
agreement, as defined in section 16 of the Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act
1995, with the Landlord in a form which the Landlord reasonably requires; and 

(2) 
       
     that any Guarantor guarantees to the Landlord that the Tenant
will comply with the authorised guarantee agreement in a form which the
Landlord reasonably requires; and 

(3) 
       
     that if the Landlord reasonably requires, the proposed
transferee procures the following: 

(a) 
       
     covenants with the Landlord by an additional
guarantor or guarantors reasonably approved by the Landlord, in the
terms contained in clause 7; and/or 

(b) 
       
     a deposit with the Landlord of an amount in
cleared funds equal to up to half the Yearly Rent or the Review Rent
(as the case may be) and an amount equal to VAT on that amount, on
terms which the Landlord reasonably requires; or 

(B) 
       
     if the proposed transfer is to a Group Company; 

(1) 
       
     if the Tenant s obligations, or any of them, are guaranteed
by another Group Company, that such Group Company covenants with the Landlord
in the terms contained in clause 7; or 

(2) 
       
     if the Tenant s obligations are not guaranteed by another
Group Company and if the transferee is not, in the Landlord s reasonable
opinion, of equal financial standing to the Tenant, that the proposed
transferee procures covenants by a Group Company other than the Tenant and the
transferee and which is, in the Landlord s reasonable opinion, of equal
financial standing to the Tenant, in a form which the Landlord reasonably
requires; and 

(3) 
       
     if any of the Tenant s obligations are secured by a deposit,
the proposed transferee procures a deposit with the Landlord of the same
amount and on the same terms; and 

(C) 
       
     that the Landlord s consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld, is
obtained to, and within two months before, the transfer (save in respect of a transfer
to a Group Company which shall not require the Landlord s Consent). 

9

(Underletting)  

4.15.5 
       
     Not to underlet the whole of the Premises or any Permitted Part (each being referred to in
this paragraph as the premises) except: 

(A) 
       
     to a person who has covenanted with the Landlord: 

(1) 
       
     to observe the Tenant s obligations to the extent they relate
to the premises (other than the payment of rents); 

(2) 
       
     not to transfer the whole of the premises without the
Landlord s consent (which will not be unreasonably withheld if the conditions
referred to in clause 4.15.5(C)(2)(b)(ii) are first satisfied); and 

(3) 
       
     not to transfer part of the premises or if the premises
comprise a wing of a floor underlet or otherwise part with possession or share
the occupation of them or any part of them (except that the underlessee may
share occupation with a Group Company of the underlessee on the same terms as
and set out in clause 4.15.8, provided they are contained in the underlease
and require notification upon request to the Landlord of this lease); 

(B) 
       
     by reserving as a yearly rent, without payment of a fine or premium, an
amount equal to: 

(1) 
       
     (in the case of an underletting of the Premises) their then
open market rack rental value ;  

(2) 
       
     (in the case of an underletting of a Permitted Part) its then
open market rack rental value, 

such rent to be approved by the Landlord (who will not unreasonably withhold it)
and to be payable by equal quarterly instalments in advance on the usual quarter
days and by reserving, as additional rents, amounts equal to, and payable at the
same times as, the other rents reserved by this lease or, in the case of an
underletting of a Permitted Part, a pro rata proportion of them; 

(C) 
       
     by a form of underlease: 

(1) 
       
     which does not express any sum to be payable by reference to
a proportion of the rent or of any other sum payable under this lease, but
which requires it to be payable and assessed in accordance with the same
principles as are required by this lease; 

(2) 
       
     which requires: 

(a) 
       
     the principal rent reserved by it to be reviewed upwards only
at intervals of not more than five years, in accordance with open market rent
review principles; and 

(b) 
       
     the underlessee to observe the Tenant s obligations (other
than the obligation to pay rents under this lease) to the extent they relate
to the premises, and containing: 

10

(i) 
       
     a condition for re-entry by the underlessor
on breach of obligation by the underlessee; 

(ii) 
       
     a qualified covenant not to transfer the
whole of the premises (subject to prior compliance with conditions as
set out in clause 4.15.4) and an unqualified covenant not to transfer
part of the premises or to underlet or otherwise part with possession
or share the occupation of them or any part of them (except that the
underlessee may share occupation with a Group Company of the
underlessee on the same terms as and set out in clause 4.15.8,
provided they are contained in the underlease and require notification
upon request to the Landlord of this lease); and 

(3) 
       
     which is approved by the Landlord such approval not to be
unreasonably withheld if the other provisions of this paragraph are observed; 

(D) 
       
     (save in the case of an underletting of the whole of the Premises) where
sections 24 to 28 inclusive of the 1954 Act are validly excluded in relation to the
underlease in accordance with the provisions contained and referred to in section 38A
of that Act; and 

(E) 
       
     with the Landlord s consent, in response to the Tenant s application which
must disclose all material circumstances relevant to the proposed underletting, issued
within two months before completion of the underletting, which consent (subject to
compliance with the foregoing conditions precedent and if appropriate with clause
4.15.6) will not be unreasonably withheld. 

4.15.6 
       
     And, further, in relation to an underlease of a Permitted Part: 

(A) 
       
     to reserve a separate service charge in respect of the maintenance, repair
and renewal of any common parts or common facilities; and 

(B) 
       
     not to grant or agree to grant any underlease: 

(1) 
       
     so as to create the possibility of there being more than
eight separate occupations affecting the whole of the Premises (occupations in
right of this lease counting as one occupation); 

(2) 
       
     except where sections 24 to 28 inclusive of the 1954 Act are
validly excluded in relation to the underlease in accordance with the
provisions contained and referred to in section 38A of that Act. 

4.15.7 
       
     To require every underlessee to observe the provisions of the underlease and not, expressly
or impliedly, to waive any breach of them, nor to vary the terms of any underlease. 

(Sharing occupation)  

4.15.8 
       
     Not to share the occupation of the Premises or any part of them except that the Tenant may
share occupation with a company which is, but only for so long as it remains, a Group Company
provided the Tenant does not grant the company sharing occupation exclusive possession nor
create any relationship of landlord and tenant, nor otherwise transfer or create a legal
estate, and the Tenant shall upon request notify the Landlord of the identity of each such
Group Company. 

11

4.16  
       
      Notifying Landlord of dealings with the lease  

4.16.1 
       
     Within five working days after any disposition or devolution of this lease, or of any estate
or interest in or derived out of it, to give the Landlord notice of the relevant transaction
with a certified copy of the relevant document (and of the notice and declaration relevant to
the exclusion of the 1954 Act from any underlease), and to pay the Landlord a fair and
reasonable fee of not more than fifty pounds for registering each notice. 

4.16.2 
       
     To register with the Landlord the name, home address and telephone number of at least two
keyholders of the Premises. 

4.17  
       
      Payment of cost of notices, consents etc  

To pay the Landlord on demand all reasonable and proper expenses (including bailiffs  and
consultants  fees) incurred in connection with: 

(A) 
       
     the preparation and service of a notice under section 146 Law of Property Act
1925, or in contemplation of any proceedings under section 146 or 147 of that Act,
notwithstanding that forfeiture is avoided otherwise than by relief granted by the
court; 

(B) 
       
     every step taken during, or within a reasonable time after, the expiry of
this lease in connection with the enforcement of the Tenant s obligations, including
the service or proposed service of all notices and schedules of dilapidations and
reasonable consultants  fees incurred in monitoring any action taken to remedy any
breach of the Tenant s obligations; and 

(C) 
       
     every application for consent under this lease, even if the application is
withdrawn provided that consent is not unreasonably withheld or subject to an unlawful
condition or conditions. 

4.18  
       
      Obstruction/overloading  

Not to obstruct: 

(A) 
       
     or obscure any openings of the Premises; 

(B) 
       
     any notice erected by the Landlord in accordance with its powers under this
lease, 

nor overload or cause undue strain to the Premises. 

4.19  
       
      Complying with Planning Law  

4.19.1 
       
     Not, without the Landlord s consent (not to be unreasonably withheld), to apply for planning
permission relating to the Premises. 

4.19.2 
       
     If the Landlord reasonably requires in connection with any relevant proposal by the Tenant,
to apply for a determination under section 192 Town and Country Planning Act 1990. 

4.19.3 
       
     If the Landlord gives consent under clause 4.19.1, not to implement the planning permission
before the Landlord has acknowledged, acting reasonably, that its terms are acceptable. 

12

4.19.4 
       
     To complete before the end of the Term all works on the Premises required as a condition of
any planning permission implemented by the Tenant or by any person claiming under or through
it. 

4.20  
       
      Indemnifying the Landlord  

To indemnify the Landlord against all consequences of any breach of any of the Tenant s
obligations (including all costs reasonably incurred by the Landlord in an attempt to
mitigate any such breach). 

4.21  
       
      Notifying defects in the Premises  

To notify the Landlord, without delay, of any defect in the Premises which becomes known to
the Tenant and which might give rise to: 

(A) 
       
     an obligation on the Landlord to do, or refrain from doing, anything at the
Premises; or 

(B) 
       
     any duty of care, or the need to discharge such duty, imposed by the
Defective Premises Act 1972, 

and to display such notices as the Landlord may reasonably require to be displayed at the
Premises relating to their state of repair and condition. 

4.22  
       
      Insurance and fire fighting equipment  

4.22.1 
       
     Not to do or omit anything by which any insurance policy, of which the Tenant shall have
been provided with written particulars, relating to the Premises becomes void or voidable. 

4.22.2 
       
     To comply with all requirements and reasonable recommendations of the insurers and to
provide and maintain unobstructed, appropriate operational fire fighting equipment and fire
notices on the Premises. 

4.22.3 
       
     To notify the Landlord, without delay, of any incidence of an Insured Risk on the Premises
and of any other event which ought reasonably to be brought to the insurers  attention. 

4.22.4 
       
     If the Tenant or any person claiming title from it is entitled to the benefit of any
insurance of the Premises, to cause all money paid under such insurance to be applied in
making good the loss or damage for which it was paid. 

4.22.5 
       
     If any damage is caused to the Premises and any insurance money under the Landlord s
insurance is irrecoverable because of a breach of the Tenant s obligations, to pay the
Landlord, without delay, the whole of the irrecoverable insurance money. 

4.22.6 
       
     If there is any deficiency in any insurance money received by the Landlord in respect of the
replacement of any damage or destruction referred to in clause 5.2.3 because the Tenant has
failed to comply with its obligations under clause 4.12.4, or if any insurance valuation
provided under that clause is shown (even allowing for reasonable inflation) to have been too
low at the time it was given, to pay the Landlord the amount of the deficiency in the
insurance money. 

13

4.23  
       
      Dangerous and contaminative materials  

Not to keep or use at the Premises any dangerous or contaminative materials which might
cause harm and, if there is any breach of that obligation, to remove all trace of the
material from the affected land and to leave it in a clean and safe condition. 

4.24  
       
      Returning the Premises to the Landlord  

At the expiry of this lease: 

(A) 
       
     to return all keys of the Premises to the Landlord; 

(B) 
       
     to remove all chattels and tenant s fixtures and to vacate the Premises,
reinstated and restored and made good in accordance with clause 4.12.6 and in the
state of repair and condition required pursuant to the Tenant s obligations; 

(C) 
       
     to make due application to the Land Registry for the cancellation of any
notice of, or relating to, this lease or any document supplemental or collateral to it
and, on request, to supply the Landlord with a copy of the application; and 

(D) 
       
     subject to paragraph (B), to return the documents referred to in that
paragraph to the Landlord. 

4.25  
       
      Covenants  

To comply with all obligations affecting the Premises being those contained or referred to
in the documents referred to in schedule 2 and not to interfere with any rights which
benefit them. 

4.26  
       
      Land Registry  

To the extent the grant (or any transfer) of this lease and of any right appurtenant to it
requires to be completed by registration pursuant to the Land Registration Act 2002 in
order to operate at law, to comply with the relevant registration requirements and, as soon
as practicable, to provide the Landlord s solicitors with a copy of an official copy of the
relevant register evidencing compliance with them. 

4.27  
       
      Head Lease  

4.27.1 
       
     To comply with the lessee s obligations contained in the Head Lease so far as they relate to
the Premises, except the obligations to pay rent and, so far as the obligation to insure falls
on the Landlord pursuant to clause 5.2, to insure. 

4.27.2 
       
     Not to do or omit any act or thing which would or might cause the Landlord to be in breach
of the Head Lease. 

5.  
       
      LANDLORD S OBLIGATIONS  

The Landlord agrees with the Tenant: 

5.1  
       
      Quiet enjoyment  

That the Tenant may peaceably hold and enjoy the Premises without any interruption by the
Landlord or any person rightfully claiming from or in trust for it. 

14

5.2  
       
      Insurance  

5.2.1 
       
     To keep the Premises (except any demountable partitioning, window blinds and wall or floor
surface coverings not installed by or at the cost of the Landlord and fixtures which are
tenant s trade fixtures) insured against the Insured Risks in a sum which, in the Landlord s
reasonable opinion, is their full replacement cost (but not necessarily the facsimile
reinstatement cost). 

5.2.2 
       
     On request to supply the Tenant (but not more frequently than once in any period of twelve
months) with evidence of such insurance. 

5.2.3 
       
     If, during the Term, the Premises (except as set out in clause 5.2.1) are damaged by an
Insured Risk and to the extent that payment of the insurance money is not refused because of a
breach of the Tenant s obligations, the Landlord will (subject to clause 6.5) with all
convenient speed take the necessary steps to obtain any requisite planning permissions and
consents and, if they are obtained, to lay out the insurance money received (except sums for
public and employer s liability and loss of rent) towards replacing, but not necessarily in
facsimile reinstatement, the damaged parts (except as set out in clause 5.2.1) as soon as
reasonably practicable and will make up any deficiencies out of its own resources but: 

(A) 
       
     the Landlord s obligation to insure and to replace does not extend to any
alteration or addition referred to in clause 4.12.4, if and to the extent the Tenant
has failed to comply with that clause; 

(B) 
       
     the Landlord is not liable to carry out the replacement if it is unable,
having used all reasonable endeavours, to obtain every permission and consent
necessary to execute the relevant work, in which event the Landlord shall, subject to
paragraph (C), be entitled to retain all the insurance money received by it; and 

(C) 
       
     if the Landlord is not liable to carry out the replacement and if the Tenant
has complied with clause 4.12.4, the Landlord shall pay the Tenant that proportion of
any received insurance money which is referable to any damaged alterations or
additions referred to in that clause, such proportion to be agreed between the
Landlord and the Tenant or, if they cannot agree, to be determined by an arbitrator
appointed by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors on the application of the
Landlord or the Tenant in accordance with the Arbitration Act 1996. 

5.2.4   Waiver of Subrogation 

The Landlord shall use all reasonable endeavours to obtain the insurer s agreement to waive
all rights of subrogation against the Tenant, its servants and agents in respect of any
claim concerning damage to the Premises during the Term.

5.3     Head Lease 

5.3.1  To comply with the lessee s obligations in the Head Lease to the extent the Tenant is not
liable to do so pursuant to clause 4.27.

5.3.2  On the request of the Tenant and at its reasonable and proper expense, to take all
reasonable steps to enforce the 
 Superior Landlord s obligations in the Head Lease.

5.3.3  Without prejudice to the generality of clause 5.3.2:

15

(A) 
       
     the Landlord shall, without delay, pay to the Tenant the sums it receives
from the Superior Landlord pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule C to the Head Lease
save where the Superior Landlord makes such payment direct to the Tenant in respect of
which the Landlord and the Tenant shall use reasonable endeavours to achieve; and 

(B) 
       
     if the Superior Landlord does not provide the Landlord s Services (as defined
in Schedule D to the Head Lease) to the reasonable satisfaction of the Tenant the
Tenant may serve notice to that effect on the Landlord and the Landlord (acting
reasonably) shall either carry out the appropriate Landlord s Services (in accordance
with paragraph 5.1 of Schedule D to the Head Lease) or refer the issue to
determination (in accordance with paragraph 5.2 of Schedule D to the Head Lease). 

5.3.4 
       
     Wherever the Tenant makes application for any consent under this lease and the Landlord is
prepared in principle to give its consent, to take all reasonable steps, at the Tenant s
reasonable expense, to obtain any necessary consent from the Superior Landlord. 

5.4  
       
      Defects  

5.4.1 
       
     In this clause 5.4: 

Defect   means a defect in the Landlord s Works attributable to faulty design and/or faulty
workmanship and/or faulty materials and/or faulty installation; 

Landlord s Works   means the works carried out to the Premises by or on behalf of the
Landlord and/or by or on behalf of Tilebox Limited (company registration number 03600395)
prior to the grant of this lease; 

5.4.2 
       
     The Landlord covenants with the Tenant within a reasonable time and to the Tenant s
reasonable satisfaction to make good any Defect or procure that any Defect is made good
provided that the existence of such Defect is notified in writing by the Tenant to the
Landlord prior to       2011. 

5.4.3 
       
     The Tenant shall permit the Landlord to have access to such parts of the Premises as are
necessary in order to remedy any Defects. 

5.4.4 
       
     Such access will be in accordance with a programme submitted by the Landlord and approved by
the Tenant (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed). 

5.4.5 
       
     The Landlord shall procure that all persons given access to the Premises in order to comply
with its obligations pursuant to this clause 5.4: 

(A) 
       
     are supervised by a representative of the Landlord s contractor at all times; 

(B) 
       
     comply with the proper and reasonable safety requirements imposed by the
Tenant from time to time for the Premises and notified to the Landlord in writing; 

(C) 
       
     comply with the programme agreed by the Tenant pursuant to clause 5.4.4 so as
to cause the minimum disruption to the Tenant s business; and 

(D) 
       
     do not materially impede the Tenant s use and enjoyment of the Premises. 

16

5.4.6 
       
     The Landlord shall procure that any damage caused in complying with its obligations under
clause 5.4.2 is made good forthwith and to the reasonable satisfaction of the Tenant. 

5.4.7 
       
     If the Landlord and the Tenant cannot agree on whether the subject matter of a notice given
by the Tenant under paragraph 5.4.2 constitutes a Defect within fourteen days of such notice
the dispute will be determined by an arbitrator in accordance with the Arbitration Act 1996.
The arbitrator shall be appointed by the president or vice president of The Royal Institution
of Chartered Surveyors on the application of the Landlord or the Tenant. 

6.  
       
      OTHER AGREEMENTS AND DECLARATIONS  

6.1  
       
      Forfeiture and re-entry  

If: 

(A) 
       
     any rent is unpaid for twenty-one days after becoming payable (whether the
rent has been demanded or not); or 

(B) 
       
     there is any other breach of the Tenant s obligations; or 

(C) 
       
     any guarantee of the Tenant s obligations is or becomes unenforceable for any
reason; or 

(D) 
       
     if the Tenant or any Guarantor (or if more than one person any one of them): 

(1) 
       
     is the subject of a winding up order, bankruptcy order or a
petition is presented, filed or lodged at court for winding up or liquidation
whether voluntarily (except for reconstruction or amalgamation of a solvent
company on terms agreed by the Landlord acting reasonably) or compulsorily; 

(2) 
       
     calls, convenes or summons a meeting of members to consider a
winding-up resolution or is the subject of any such resolution, except for a
voluntary reconstruction as stated in paragraph (1); 

(3) 
       
     is subject to the appointment of any receiver, manager or
administrative receiver or a provisional liquidator or a resolution is passed
or any other step is taken by the Tenant or the Guarantor or its directors for
the appointment of an administrator, or an administrator is appointed, or a
petition or application for an administration order is presented, in relation
to the Tenant or the Guarantor; 

(4) 
       
     enters into any form of compromise of debts, scheme of
arrangement, rescheduling or restructuring with its creditors or any of them,
including but not limited to any scheme of arrangement under the Companies Act
1985 or any voluntary arrangement under the Insolvency Act 1986; 

(5) 
       
     obtains, or takes any steps to obtain, any moratorium or
other form of protection against creditors or a general suspension of the
payment of debts due and payable, including but not limited to any moratorium
available under the Insolvency Act 1986; 

17

(6) 
       
     dies or is dissolved or is otherwise struck off any register
of companies in its place of incorporation or any other place where it is
registered or located; 

(7) 
       
     is the subject of any lawful forfeiture, execution,
distraint, repossession in relation to any of its assets; or 

(8) 
       
     is the subject of any analogous procedure, regime, process or
step in any jurisdiction outside England and Wales. 

the Landlord may, notwithstanding the waiver of any previous right of re-entry,
re-enter on any part of the Premises and on such re-entry this lease shall
absolutely determine, but without prejudice to any Landlord s right of action for
any prior breach of the Tenant s obligations. 

6.2  
       
      No implied rights  

6.2.1 
       
     Neither the Tenant nor the Premises is entitled to any right, including any quasi-easement,
except those expressly granted by this lease. 

6.2.2 
       
     The Tenant may not enforce, or prevent the release or modification of, any type of right or
obligation attaching to the Landlord s interest in the Premises or in any other land so as to
prevent or restrict the development or use of any other land. 

6.2.3 
       
     Any provision of this lease which would, apart from this provision, be in conflict with this
clause takes effect subject to it. 

6.3  
       
      Service of notices  

6.3.1 
       
     In addition to any other method of service, any notice which is served under this lease
shall be validly served if it is served in accordance with section 196 Law of Property Act
1925, as amended by the Recorded Delivery Service Act 1962. 

6.3.2 
       
     If the Tenant or any Guarantor comprises more than one person, it shall be sufficient if
notice is served on one of them, but a notice duly served on the Tenant does not need to be
served on any Guarantor. 

6.4  
       
      Relief from liability to pay rent  

If: 

(A) 
       
     the Premises (except as set out in clause 5.2.1) are damaged by an Insured
Risk, so that the Premises are incapable of occupation and use; and 

(B) 
       
     the payment of any insurance money has not been vitiated by a breach of the
Tenant s obligations, 

the Yearly Rent, or a fair proportion of it according to the nature and extent of the
damage sustained, shall cease to be payable from the date when the damage occurred until
the date on which the Premises (except as set out in clause 5.2.1) are made fit for
substantial occupation and use and any dispute about such cessation shall be determined by
an arbitrator to be appointed, in default of agreement, on the application of the Landlord
or the Tenant to The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors in accordance with the
Arbitration Act 1996. 

18

6.5  
       
      Ending of the lease following major damage  

6.5.1 
       
     If the Premises are damaged by an Insured Risk so that substantially the whole of them
cannot be occupied for the Permitted Use without substantial work being undertaken under
clause 5.2, this lease may be determined: 

(A) 
       
     by the Tenant, but only if: 

(1) 
       
     the Landlord has not commenced the necessary replacement work
by the expiry of 24 months after the date when the damage occurred; or 

(2) 
       
     the necessary replacement work is not substantially complete
by the expiry of the period for which loss of rent is insured; and, in either
case, 

(3) 
       
     payment of any insurance money has not been vitiated by a
breach of the Tenant s obligations; and 

(4) 
       
     it does not owe the Landlord any debt under clauses 4.22.5 or
4.22.6; and 

(5) 
       
     it serves the Landlord, by the expiry of 26 months after the
date when the damage occurred (if paragraph (1) applies) or by the expiry of
the period for which loss of rent is insured (if paragraph (2) applies), with
written notice to determine; and 

(B) 
       
     by the Landlord, but only if: 

(1) 
       
     the damage occurs during the last five years of the Term; and 

(2) 
       
     despite having used all reasonable endeavours to achieve a
lawful commencement of the necessary replacement work by the expiry of the
period specified in paragraph (A)(1), the Landlord was unable to do so; and 

(3) 
       
     it serves the Tenant, by the expiry of 28 months after the
date when the damage occurred, with not less than six months prior written
notice to determine. 

6.5.2 
       
     Once a notice has been served under 6.5.1(A)(5) or (B)(3), it shall be irrevocable and the
Landlord s obligations under clause 5.2.3 shall cease and, on the expiry of the notice, this
lease shall determine without prejudice to any accrued rights of any party and the Landlord
shall be entitled to retain the insurance money (provided that, if the Tenant has complied
with clause 4.12.4, the Landlord shall pay the Tenant that proportion of any received
insurance money which is referable to any damaged alterations or additions referred to in that
clause, such proportion to be agreed between the Landlord and the Tenant or, if they cannot
agree, to be determined by an arbitrator appointed by The Royal Institution of Chartered
Surveyors on the application of the Landlord or the Tenant in accordance with the Arbitration
Act 1996). 

6.5.3 
       
     For the purposes of this clause, replacement work: 

(A) 
       
     commences when it would be treated as commencing under Section 56 of the Town
  Country Planning Act 1990 but work of demolition does not, of itself, signify
commencement; and 

19

(B) 
       
     is substantially complete when any person, appointed by the Landlord to
certify its completion, properly certifies that it is complete, whether by issue of a
certificate of practical completion or otherwise. 

6.5.4 
       
     Time is of the essence of the periods referred to in this clause. 

6.6  
       
      Arbitration fees  

Any arbitrator s fees may be paid by the Landlord or the Tenant, notwithstanding any
direction or prior agreement as to liability for payment, and if either party chooses to do
so, it shall be entitled to an appropriate repayment by the other party on demand. 

6.7  
       
      No warranty as to use  

The Landlord does not warrant that the Premises are authorised under Planning Law to be
used, or are otherwise fit for, any specific purpose. 

6.8  
       
      Overriding lease  

If, during the Term, the Landlord grants a tenancy of the reversion immediately expectant
on the determination of this lease, whether pursuant to section 19 Landlord and Tenant
(Covenants) Act 1995 or otherwise, any obligation of the Tenant to obtain the consent of
the Landlord under this lease to any dealing with it includes an obligation to obtain the
consent of the lessor under such tenancy to that dealing. 

6.9  
       
      Application of Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act 1995  

This lease is a new tenancy for the purposes of the Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act
1995. 

6.10  
       
      Exclusion of Third Party Rights  

The parties confirm that no term of this lease is enforceable under the Contracts (Rights
of Third Parties) Act 1999 by a person who is not a party to it. 

6.11  
       
      Jurisdiction  

This lease is governed by and construed in accordance with the law of England and the
Tenant and the Guarantor submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts and
agree that any process may be served on them by leaving a copy of the relevant document at
the Premises and each party to this lease undertakes to notify the other in advance of any
change from time to time of such address for service and to maintain an appropriate address
at all times. 

7.  
       
      GUARANTOR S OBLIGATIONS  

In consideration of the Landlord entering into this lease, the Guarantor as a principal
obligor agrees with the Landlord that: 

7.1  
       
      Guarantee  

Until the expiry of this lease or until any earlier date when the Guarantor is released by
virtue of the Landlord and Tenant (Covenants) Act 1995 from its obligations under this
sub-clause: 

20

(A) 
       
     the Tenant s obligations will be performed; 

(B) 
       
     the Tenant will comply with any authorised guarantee agreement which it
enters into on a transfer of this lease; and 

(C) 
       
     to the extent the Tenant s obligations or any such authorised guarantee
agreement are not complied with, the Guarantor will comply with them and will
indemnify the Landlord against any loss it suffers as a result of any non-compliance. 

7.2  
       
      Preservation of the Guarantee  

The Guarantor s obligations under sub-clause 7.1 are not affected by: 

(A) 
       
     any indulgence, compromise or neglect in enforcing the Tenant s obligations
or any refusal by the Landlord to accept tendered rent; 

(B) 
       
     any variation or waiver of any of the terms of this lease; 

(C) 
       
     any partial surrender of this lease (and the Guarantor s liability shall
continue but only in respect of the Tenant s continuing obligations); 

(D) 
       
     any forfeiture of this lease, whether in whole or in part; 

(E) 
       
     any legal limitation, immunity, incapacity, insolvency or the winding-up of
the Tenant or by the fact that the Tenant otherwise ceases to exist; 

(F) 
       
     any action taken by or on the Landlord s behalf in contemplation of
re-letting the Premises; 

(G) 
       
     any other act or omission which, but for this provision, would have released
the Guarantor from liability; 

or any combination of any such matters. 

7.3  
       
      No right to participate in security  

The Guarantor may not participate in, or exercise any right of subrogation in respect of,
any security held by the Landlord for the Tenant s obligations. 

7.4  
       
      Disclaimer etc.  

If this lease is disclaimed, forfeited or if the Tenancy ceases to exist: 

7.4.1 
       
     The Landlord may require the Guarantor at its reasonable and proper cost to accept a new
lease of the Premises on the same terms of, and containing the same agreements as, this lease
(and, where any such term applies as at a particular date or period, as at the same date or
period), as if this lease had not been disclaimed etc. and as the terms have effect
immediately before the disclaimer etc., for the residue of the Term, and with effect, from the
date of disclaimer etc. but the new lease shall omit this clause. 

7.4.2 
       
     For the purposes of sub-clause 7.4.1: 

(A) 
       
     the Landlord may notify the requirement to the Guarantor only within the
period of three months commencing on the date of disclaimer; 

21

(B) 
       
     if there are any matters outstanding under this lease immediately before it
is disclaimed, they shall be determined between the Landlord and the Guarantor and be
reflected, as appropriate, in the new lease; 

(C) 
       
     the new lease shall be completed within 4 weeks after the date when the
Landlord notifies the requirement to the Guarantor .  

7.5  
       
      Transfer of the reversion  

The benefit of the Guarantor s obligations under this clause will pass to a transferee of
the Landlord s reversion in the Premises without need for an express assignment. 

IN WITNESS  whereof this deed has been executed by the parties hereto and is intended to be and is
hereby delivered on the date first above written.

22

SCHEDULE 1 

PART I 

(the Premises) 

The land and buildings known as Onslow House, Guildford, being the whole of the land comprised in
Title Numbers SY702491 and SY706210

PART II 

(Rights) 

The rights granted by paragraphs 1 to 9 (inclusive) of Part 3 of Schedule A to the Head Lease

PART III 

(Exceptions and reservations) 

1. 
       
     The rights excepted and reserved by the Head Lease. 

2. 
       
     The right, at reasonable times on reasonable prior written notice (except in an emergency),
to enter the Premises as often as may be necessary for any purpose for which the Tenant
covenants in this lease to permit entry. 

3. 
       
     The right to construct, inspect, maintain, repair and renew and to make connections to any
conduit at the Premises at any time during the Term for the benefit of any other land. 

4. 
       
     All rights of light, air and other easements and rights enjoyed by the Premises from or over
any other land. 

5. 
       
     The right to erect and maintain scaffolding on or against the Premises so long as reasonable
and sufficient means of access to, egress from and servicing the Premises are maintained, 

such rights being reserved for the benefit of the land comprised in title numbers SY702491 and
SY706210 and exercisable provided the Landlord causes as little interference as reasonably possible
to the Tenant s use of the Premises for its business (except where it is necessary to do so in
order to comply with any obligation to the Tenant) and, if the Landlord exercises any of the rights
by carrying out work on the Premises, it shall make good any damage caused to them and to any of
the Tenant s chattels straight away, unless the right has been exercised because of some material
breach of the Tenant s obligations and the Landlord would otherwise be out of pocket.

23

SCHEDULE 2 

(Covenants etc.) 

24

SIGNED  and  DELIVERED  as a deed

) 

by

) 

as the Attorney of  THE STANDARD 

) 

LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY 

) 

(in exercise of a Power of Attorney under its

) 

Seal dated 28 April 2005)

) 

in the presence of:

) 

Signature of Witness:

Name (in BLOCK CAPITALS):

Address:

EXECTED  as a  DEED  by

) 

ELECTRONIC ARTS LIMITED  was

) 

hereunto affixed in the presence of:

) 

Director

Director/Secretary

THE COMMON SEAL  of    

) 

was hereunto affixed

) 

in the presence of:

) 

Director

Director/Secretary   

25

2006  

THE STANDARD LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY 

and

ELECTRONIC ARTS LIMITED 

DEED  
relating to 
Onslow House, Guildford, Surrey 

Herbert Smith LLP

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

THIS DEED  is made on the     day of               2006

BETWEEN :

WITNESSES  as follows:

1.  
       
      DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION  

1.1 
       
      Definitions  

In this agreement the following words and expressions have the following meanings unless
the context otherwise requires: 

Building Contract   means the building contract dated 27 th  April 2001 made
between Tilebox Limited (Co. Regn. No. 03600395) (1) and the Contractor (2) as amended and
varied; 

Cladding Defect   means a defect in the Cladding System (excluding any snagging matters
identified at or about the date of practical completion of the works which are the subject
of the Building Contract and which the Landlord procures or rectifies within a reasonable
period following practical completion) attributable to the design, workmanship, materials,
or installation of the Cladding System; 

Cladding System   means the Spanwall composite cladding system, the double glazed Kawneer
curtain walling system and all brise soleil assemblies and external steel grillage
(including all bracketry and associated fixings) to the Premises; 

Contractor   means Alfred McAlpine Capital Projects Limited (Co. Regn. No. 00247624) whose
registered office is at Kinnaird House, 1 Pall Mall East, London SW1Y 5AZ; 

Initial Period   means the period commencing on the date of this deed and expiring on    
2011   i.e. as clause 5.4.2 of Lease   

Landlord   means the person for the time being entitled to the reversion expectant on the
determination of the Lease; 

Lease   means an underlease of even date made between Standard Life (1) the Tenant (2) and
Electronic Arts Inc. (3) of the premises shortly known as Onslow House, Guildford, Surrey
(more particularly described in such underlease); 

Losses   means the aggregate of (i) the reasonable costs properly incurred by the Tenant in
rectifying a Cladding Defect by way of repair, replacement or renewal as appropriate and
(ii) (where Remedial Works cannot reasonably be carried out unless the Tenant vacates the
Premises in whole or in part) the Tenant s reasonable temporary relocation costs (to
include without limitation the cost of taking alternative premises, professional costs and
removal expenses to and from such alternative premises); 

1

Maximum Amount   means  750,000 in aggregate (exclusive of VAT); 

Remedial Works   means works undertaken or procured by the Tenant to rectify a Cladding
Defect by way of repair, replacement or renewal, as appropriate. 

1.2 
       
      Interpretation  

1.2.1 
       
     Any expressions common to this Deed and the Lease shall have the same
meaning ascribed to them in the Lease unless this agreement otherwise prescribes. 

1.2.2 
       
     Words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa and words of
one gender shall include the other two genders. 

1.2.3 
       
     If a party comprises two or more persons their obligations and liabilities
are joint and several. 

1.2.4 
       
     Reference to a party agreeing not to do or omit any act or thing shall
include references to that party not permitting or suffering it to be done or omitted. 

1.2.5 
       
     Any reference to a Clause is a reference to a Clause of this Deed and any
heading in this Deed shall not affect its construction. 

1.2.6 
       
     The obligations of Standard Life contained in this Deed shall be personal to
Standard Life. 

1.2.7 
       
     Any reference to any statute or section of a statute shall include all
subordinate legislation deriving validity from that statute or section of a statute
and shall extend to any statutory amendment modification consolidation and
re-enactment of it or such subordinate legislation for the time being in force. 

2.  
       
      CLADDING DEFECTS  

2.1 
       
     The Tenant shall notify the Landlord of any Cladding Defect which becomes apparent during the
Initial Period. 

2.2 
       
     In relation to any Cladding Defect notified pursuant to clause 2.1 the Tenant shall allow the
Landlord a reasonable period of time having regard to the nature and extent of the Cladding
Defect within which to rectify the Cladding Defect in accordance with clause 5 of the Lease
before submitting the details of the proposed Remedial Works to Standard Life in accordance
with clause 2.3. Where Standard Life is the Landlord, Standard Life shall keep the Tenant
advised of any remedial works it proposed to undertake to rectify a Cladding Defect and have
due regard to (but not be bound by) any representations which the Tenant or its
representatives may make in relation to the same. 

2.3 
       
     The Tenant shall submit to Standard Life for its approval (not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed) full details of any Remedial Works it proposes to undertake and its reasonable
estimate of Losses. 

2.4 
       
     The Tenant shall have due regard to (but shall not be bound by) any representations which
Standard Life may make in relation to the proposed Remedial Works and/or the need for the
Tenant to vacate the Premises in whole or in part whilst the proposed Remedial Works are
carried out. 

2

2.5 
       
     If Standard Life has not objected to the Tenant s proposals pursuant to clause 2.3 within 10
working days giving reasonable details of its reasons for such objection, Standard Life s
consent shall be deemed to be given. 

3.  
       
      DISPUTE RESOLUTION  

3.1 
       
     Any dispute or difference between the parties as to any matters referred to in clause 2.2,
2.3 or 2.4 shall be determined by an arbitrator in accordance with the Arbitration Act 1996.
In the absence of agreement, the arbitrator shall be appointed by the President or Vice
President of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. 

3.2 
       
     Any dispute or difference between the parties as to what may be a reasonable period of time
pursuant to clause 2.2 shall be determined by expert determination in accordance with clauses
3.3-3.7. 

3.3 
       
     The expert shall be an independent chartered surveyor who shall be a partner in or director
of a leading firm of surveyors having their main UK office in Central London and who shall
have not less than ten years post qualification experience. 

3.4 
       
     That expert shall be previously agreed upon between Standard Life and the Tenant or (in the
absence of such agreement) nominated on the application of either Standard Life or the Tenant,
or both of them jointly, by the President for the time being of the Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors, or his duly appointed nominee. 

3.5 
       
     The expert shall: 

3.5.1 
       
     act as an expert; 

3.5.2 
       
     allow the parties a reasonable opportunity of making representations and
counter-representations to him; 

3.5.3 
       
     take those representations and counter-representations into account; and 

3.5.4 
       
     if required by either party give written reasons for his determination. 

3.6 
       
     The award of the expert shall be binding on the parties, and the costs of the reference to
him and of his determination (including his own fees and expenses and the legal and other
costs of the parties) shall lie in his award. 

3.7 
       
     If the expert dies or becomes unwilling to act or becomes incapable of acting, the President
may, upon the application of either Standard Life or the Tenant, or both of them jointly,
discharge him and appoint another chartered surveyor to act in his place and this shall be
repeated as many times as the circumstances may require. 

4.  
       
      REIMBURSEMENT OF LOSSES  

Standard Life shall upon production from time to time of receipted invoices or, in the absence of
such invoices, other evidence satisfactory to Standard Life (acting reasonably) of monies expended
by the Tenant in respect of any matter falling within the definition of Losses pay to the Tenant
the monies so expended within 14 working days after the production to Standard Life of such
receipted invoices or other evidence PROVIDED THAT Standard Life shall not be obliged to make:- 

4.1 
       
     any such payment or part of such payment to the extent that the amount of it when aggregated
with any previous payments exceeds the Maximum Amount; 

3

4.2 
       
     any such payment in respect of VAT which is recoverable by the Tenant as an input. 

5.  
       
      ASSIGNMENT  

This Deed may be assigned without the consent of Standard Life by the Tenant to another person (T1)
taking an assignment of the Tenant s interest in the Lease and by T1 to another person (T2) taking
an assignment of T1 s interest in the Lease. Standard Life shall be given written notice of any
assignment, but failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of such
assignment. No further or other assignment of this Deed will be permitted and in particular T2
shall not be entitled to assign this Deed.

The Tenant shall not be permitted to make any claim pursuant to this Deed after the expiry of the
Term or earlier determination of the Lease.

7.  
       
      THIRD PARTY RIGHTS  

For the avoidance of doubt the parties confirm that this Deed shall not and the parties do not
intend that this Deed shall confer or purport to confer on any third party any right to enforce any
term of this Deed pursuant to The Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999.

8.  
       
      JURISDICTION  

This Deed shall in all respects be governed by the Laws of England and Wales and subject to clause
3 any dispute or difference arising under or in connection with this Deed shall be subject to the
exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of England and Wales, save for the purposes of enforcing the
decisions of such courts in other jurisdictions.

IN WITNESS  whereof this Deed has been executed by the parties hereto and is intended to be and is
hereby delivered on the date first above written

SIGNED  and  DELIVERED  as a deed

) 

by

) 

as the Attorney of  THE STANDARD LIFE 

) 

ASSURANCE COMPANY  (in exercise

) 

of a Power of Attorney under its Seal

) 

dated 28 April 2005)

) 

In the presence of:

) 

Signature of Witness;

Name (in BLOCK CAPITALS):

Address:

4

EXECUTED  as a  DEED  by

) 

ELECTRONIC ARTS LIMITED  was

) 

hereunto affixed in the presence of

) 

Director  

Director/Secretary  

5

2006  

LANDLORD: 

THE STANDARD LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY and 

TENANT: 

ELECTRONIC ARTS LIMITED and 

GUARANTOR: 

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC 

LICENCE TO ALTER  
(by tenant within demise) 
relating to Lease of 
Onslow House, Guildford, Surrey 

The Landlord s consent has not been given and is not being given by virtue of this draft being
sent out or until a formal licence executed by the landlord is completed.

Herbert Smith LLP

1

LICENCE DATED 

1. 

PARTICULARS  

LANDLORD  
       
      THE STANDARD LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY  whose registered office
is at Standard Life House, 30 Lothian Road Edinburgh EH1
2DH (Co. Regn. No.SZ000004) 

TENANT  
       
      ELECTRONIC ARTS LIMITED  whose registered office is at 2000
Hillswood Drive Chertsey Surrey KT16 0EU (Co. Regn.
No.02057591) 

GUARANTOR  
       
      ELECTRONIC ARTS INC  whose registered office is at 209
Redwood Shares Parkway, Redwood City California 94065 (a
corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware) 

PREMISES  
       
     Onslow House, Guildford more particularly described in the
Lease; 

LEASE 

Date:

2006 

Parties:

(1) the Landlord 

(2) the Tenant 

(3) the Guarantor 

and includes all documents supplemental to it (whether or
not expressed to be so); 

TERM  
       
     the term of years granted by the Lease; 

CDM REGULATIONS  
       
     the Construction (Design and Management) Regulations 1994; 

REQUISITE 
CONSENTS  
       
     all requisite planning permissions, building regulation
requirements, relevant British Standards and Codes of
Practice, Acts of Parliament, byelaws and regulations
necessary to commence carry out and complete the Works; 

WORKS  
       
     the works to the Premises described in the drawing(s) (and
specification(s)) referred to in the schedule and annexed
to this licence. 

1

2.  
       
      OWNERSHIP  

The reversion expectant on the determination of the Term is vested in the Landlord and the
residue of the Term is vested in the Tenant. 

3.  
       
      INTERPRETATION  

In this licence: 

3.1 
       
     expressions defined in the particulars and expressions defined in the CDM Regulations have
the same meaning and, unless this licence otherwise prescribes, expressions common to the
licence and the Lease have the meaning given to them in the Lease; 

3.2 
       
     any obligation of a party which comprises more than one person takes effect as a joint and
several obligation; 

3.3 
       
     an obligation not to do or omit anything also operates as an obligation not to permit or
suffer it to be done or omitted and to prevent or, as the case may be, to require it being
done; and 

3.4 
       
     references to any clause, sub-clause, schedule or paragraph are to the corresponding clause,
sub-clause, schedule or paragraph in this licence and any headings do not affect the
construction or interpretation of this licence. 

4.  
       
      CONSENT  

4.1 
       
     The Landlord consents to the Tenant carrying out the Works upon the terms of this licence. 

4.2 
       
     This licence is of no effect unless the Works are commenced within one month from and
including the date of this licence. 

5.  
       
      THE WORKS  

The Tenant agrees with the Landlord: 

5.1 
       
     to obtain and produce all Requisite Consents to the Landlord before the Works are commenced; 

5.2 
       
     if the Works are commenced, to carry out and complete them: 

5.2.1 
       
     in accordance with the details shown on the drawing(s) (and specification(s)) referred to in the schedule; 

5.2.2 
       
     in a good and workmanlike manner using sound materials of good quality and in accordance with good design practice; 

5.2.3 
       
     to the reasonable satisfaction of the Landlord; 

5.2.4 
       
     in compliance with all Requisite Consents; 

5.2.5 
       
     so that no damage nuisance or disturbance is caused to the Premises or any neighbouring premises or to the owners or occupiers of them; 

2

5.2.6 
       
     in compliance with the insurance policy for the Premises and all requirements of the relevant insurance company which have been notified to the Tenant in relation to the Works; 

5.2.7 
       
     with all due diligence and without avoidable delay; and 

5.2.8 
       
     within six months of the date of this licence; 

5.3 
       
     to ensure that all electrical items forming part of the Works are carried out in accordance
with the edition of the Institution of Electrical Engineers  Requirements for Electrical
Installations which is current at the relevant time; 

5.4 
       
     to ensure that any alteration or connection to the installed services or the Landlord s
System as part of the carrying out of the Works are undertaken by contractors approved by the
Landlord (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld); 

5.5 
       
     that it will during the carrying out of the Works keep all building equipment materials or
debris inside the Premises; and 

5.6 
       
     if required by the Landlord, to make good any damage to the Premises during the progress of
the Works to the Landlord s reasonable satisfaction; 

5.7 
       
     to pay the Landlord on demand the amount of any increased insurance premium from time to time
payable in respect of the Premises as a result of carrying the Works out and to provide the
Landlord (without any delay) on completion of the Works with a written independent current
insurance (VAT inclusive) valuation of the Works for replacement purposes; 

5.8 
       
     to keep the Landlord fully indemnified from all expenses, costs, claims, damages, losses,
demands and any other liability whatsoever in respect of the Works or anything done by the
Tenant pursuant to this licence; 

at the expiry or sooner determination of the Lease (if and to the extent required by the
Landlord) at the Tenant s own cost to reinstate and make good the Premises in a proper and
workmanlike manner to the same state and condition which existed before the Works were made
and to do so in accordance with drawings and specifications approved in writing by the
Landlord (acting reasonably) and in compliance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.4
inclusive as if reference in those paragraphs to the Works were references to the works of
reinstatement and making good; 

5.9 
       
     to pay on demand an amount equal to the reasonable costs and disbursements (plus Value Added
Tax) of any surveyors architects and engineers of the Landlord in connection with any
reinstatement and making good referred to in paragraph 0; 

6.  
       
      CDM REGULATIONS  

6.1 
       
     In respect of the Works to which the CDM Regulations apply, the Tenant shall: 

6.1.1 
       
     fully comply, and procure full and lawful compliance with the CDM Regulations; 

6.1.2 
       
     act as the only client in respect of the relevant Works and shall serve a declaration to that effect on the Health and Safety Executive pursuant to regulation 4 of the CDM Regulations and give a copy of it to the Landlord; and 

3

6.1.3 
       
     not derogate from its obligations under this clause nor from the declaration referred to in paragraph 6.1.2. 

6.2.1 
       
     maintain and make the Health and Safety file for the Premises and works carried out to them, required by the CDM Regulations (the  File ) available to the Landlord for inspection at all times; 

6.2.2 
       
     on request provide copies of the whole or any part of the File to the Landlord; and 

6.2.3 
       
     deliver the File to the Landlord at the end of the Term. 

7.  
       
      DECLARATIONS  

It is agreed that: 

7.1 
       
     the approval by the Landlord or its agents of the Works does not imply any warranty by or on
the Landlord s behalf of the suitability or condition of the Premises for the Works and no
liability shall attach to the Landlord or its agents in respect of such approval; 

7.2 
       
     the condition for re-entry contained in the Lease is exercisable if there is a breach of this
licence as well as in any of the events mentioned in that condition; 

7.3 
       
     the Tenant s and the Guarantor s obligations and the conditions contained in the Lease which
now apply to the Premises shall continue to apply to them when and as altered as permitted by
this licence and shall extend to all additions made to the Premises in the course of the
Works; 

7.4 
       
     any effect that the Works may have on the open market rent (or as otherwise defined in the
relevant provisions in the Lease) of the Premises will not be disregarded in determining the
revised rent in accordance with the provisions of the Lease; 

8.  
       
      GUARANTOR S OBLIGATION  

The Guarantor agrees with the Landlord that if there is any breach of the Tenant s
obligations in this licence: 

8.1 
       
     the Guarantor shall remedy the breach and make good to the Landlord all losses, costs,
damages and expenses occasioned by it; and 

8.2 
       
     the breach shall entitle the Landlord to enforce the Guarantor s obligations in the Lease. 

9.  
       
      EXCLUSION OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS  

No term of this licence is enforceable under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act
1999 by a person who is not a party to this licence. 

10.  
       
      JURISDICTION  

This licence is governed by and construed in accordance with English law and the English
courts have exclusive jurisdiction in relation to any dispute arising under or connected
with this licence and the Tenant and Guarantor irrevocably agree that any process may be
served on them by leaving a copy of the relevant document at the Premises and each party 

4

undertakes to notify the other in advance of any change from time to time of such address
for service and to maintain an appropriate address at all times. 

IN WITNESS  whereof this licence has been executed as a deed by the parties and is intended to be
and is delivered on the date first above written.

5

SCHEDULE 

(Drawings and Specification) 

Drawing Number

Title

Prepared by 

Specifications

On Original 

SIGNED and DELIVERED  as a  DEED 

) 

by

) 

as Attorney to  THE STANDARD LIFE 

) 

ASSURANCE COMPANY  in exercise of a

) 

Power of Attorney under its seal dated

) 

28 April 2005 in the presence of:

) 

Witness:

Name:

Address:

On Counterpart 

SIGNED  as a  DEED  by  ELECTRONIC 

) 

ARTS LIMITED  acting by two of

) 

its directors/a director and its secretary

) 

Director  

Director/Secretary  

6

SIGNED  as a  DEED  by  ELECTRONIC 

) 

ARTS INC  acting by two of

) 

its directors/a director and its secretary

) 

Director  

Director/Secretary  

7

TO BE TYPED ON THE HEADED NOTEPAPER OF ELECTRONIC ARTS INC  

2006

To: 
       
     The Standard Life Assurance Company 30 Lothian Road Edinburgh EH1 2PH 

Dear Sirs

Electronic Arts Inc, 209 Redwood Shares Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065 ( the Company ) 

Onslow House, Guildford, Surrey ( the Premises ) 

An Agreement for Lease and Lease of the Premises to be made between The Standard Life Assurance
Company (1) Electronic Arts Limited (2) and Electronic Arts Inc (3) (together known as  the
Documents ) 

I act as legal counsel to the Company and am licensed to practice law only in the State of
California (the   Jurisdiction  ).

1  
       
      Request for legal opinion  

I have been requested to give a legal opinion as to: 

1.1 
       
     the validity of the intended execution of the Documents by the Company; and 

1.2 
       
     the enforceability of the Documents under the laws of the Jurisdiction. 

2  
       
      Examination of documents  

I have examined the Documents for the purpose of giving this opinion. 

3  
       
      Opinion re: the Law of the Jurisdiction  

My opinion is limited to the laws of the Jurisdiction as at the date of this letter. 

4  
       
      Assumptions made  

I have assumed without enquiry that: 

4.1 
       
     the Documents are within the capacity and powers of, and will be duly authorised, executed
and delivered by or on behalf of, each of the parties other than the Company; 

-2-

4.2 
       
     the Documents will, when duly executed and delivered, constitute valid, binding and
enforceable obligations of the Company under English Law; 

unless when executed there is anything apparent to the contrary or on the face of the
documents to displace such assumptions. 

1 
       
     The Guarantor is duly incorporated and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware and is duly admitted and licensed to do business in the State of California. 

5  
       
      In my opinion:  

5.1 
       
      Status  

The Company is a Corporation, duly incorporated and validly existing under the laws of the
State of Delaware and is duly admitted and licensed to do business in the State of
California. 

5.2 
       
      Enforceability of Documents  

5.2.1 
       
     The Documents, when duly executed by the Company, will constitute obligations
of the Company enforceable in the courts of the Jurisdiction. 

In relation to due execution of the Documents by the Company, the constitution of
the Company provides that the duly appointed    President     Vice President     Senior
Corporate Officers    of the Company from time to time are empowered to execute
documents in the nature of the Documents on its behalf and    name    is such a duly
appointed and authorised corporate officer and the Documents will be duly executed
by the Company if they are signed by    him   . 

5.2.2 
       
     The entry into any of the Documents will not violate: 

5.2.2.1 
       
     any present law, regulation or order of or in the Jurisdiction; or 

5.2.2.2 
       
     the constitutional documents of the Company. 

5.2.3 
       
     No authorisations, approvals, consents, licences, exemptions, filings,
registrations, notarisations or other requirements of government, judicial or public
bodies or authorities of or in the Jurisdiction are required or advisable in connection
with the entry into, performance, validity, and enforceability of the Documents. 

-3-

5.2.4 
       
     No stamp, registration, documentary or similar tax is payable in respect of
the entry into, performance or enforcements of the Documents or to render them
admissible in evidence in the Jurisdiction. 

5.2.5 
       
     No deduction or withholding, whether on account of tax or otherwise, will be
required from any payment by the Company under the Documents in the Jurisdiction. 

5.2.6 
       
     Neither the Company nor its assets is entitled to immunity from suit,
execution, attachment or other legal process in the Jurisdiction. 

5.2.7 
       
     So far as we are aware, no proceedings have been started or other steps taken
for the winding-up or dissolution of the Company or the appointment of a receiver,
trustee or similar officer of the Company of any of its assets or revenues. 

5.2.8 
       
     The choice of the law of England and Wales as proper law of any of the
Documents will be valid and binding and is recognised and given effect to by the courts
of the Jurisdiction. 

5.2.9 
       
     Any submission to jurisdiction by the Company and appointment of process
agents contained in any of the Documents is valid and binding on the Company and not
subject to revocation. 

5.2.10 
       
     Any address within any part of the United Kingdom as an address for service of
proceedings in respect of any of the Documents is valid and binding on the Company. 

6  
       
      Qualifications to opinion  

This opinion is subject to the following qualifications: 

6.1 
       
     The effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganisation, moratorium or other similar
federal, state or international laws generally affecting the rights of creditors. 

6.2 
       
     The application of general principles of equity, including, but not limited to, concepts of
reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, equitable subordination and the possible
unavailability of specific performance or injunctive relief (regardless of whether such remedy
is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). 

6.3 
       
     The effect of statutes, common laws and judicial decisions (i) which, under certain
circumstances, exonerate a guarantor, if the creditor materially alters the original
obligation of the principal without the consent of the guarantor, if the landlord exercises
remedies for default that impair the subrogation or other rights of the 

-4-

guarantor against the principal, or otherwise takes
action which materially prejudices the guarantor,
without obtaining consent of the guarantor, (ii)
relating to waivers or subordination by a guarantor
of its subrogation rights against the principal, its
contribution rights, or other common law and
statutory protections of a guarantor or (iii) which
limit the liability of the guarantor to be no greater
than the liability of the principal. 

7  
       
      Who may rely on this opinion  

This opinion is addressed to you solely for your benefit and solely for the purpose of the
Documents. It is not to be relied upon by anyone else or for any other purpose without our
express consent. 

We are licensed to practice law only in the State of Delaware. Accordingly, this Opinion is
limited in all respects to applicable existing laws of the United States and the State of
Delaware and the general corporate law of the State of Delaware and we have made no inquiry
into, and express no opinion as to, the statutes, regulations, treaties or common laws of
any other nation or state, including, without limitation, those of England, if any,
applicable to our Opinions. 

This Opinion is rendered based on the facts and circumstances, together with applicable law,
existing on the date of this Opinion and we express no opinion as to the effect on the
Documents of any statute, rule, regulation or other law enacted, of any court decision
rendered, or of the conduct of any persons, which occurs after the date of this Opinion.
Moreover, we assume no obligation to advise you or any other person of any change, whether
factual or legal, and whether or not material, that may hereafter arise or be brought to our
attention after the date hereof. 

Yours faithfully

Electronic Arts Inc.

</EX-10.2>

<EX-15.1>
 4
 f16210exv15w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 15.1

exv15w1 

Exhibit 15.1 

Awareness Letter of KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors 
Electronic Arts Inc.:

With respect to the subject registration statements on Forms S-8 (Nos. 33-66836, 33-55212,
33-53302, 33-41955, 33-82166, 33-61781, 33-61783, 333-09683, 333-09893, 333-32239, 333-32771,
333-46937, 333-60513, 333-60517, 333-84215, 333-39430, 333-39432, 333-44222, 333-60256, 333-67430,
333-82888, 333-99525 and 333-107710, 333-117990, 333-102797), and the registration statement on
Form S-3 (No. 333-120256) of Electronic Arts Inc., we acknowledge our awareness of the use therein
of our report dated February 7, 2006 relating to the unaudited condensed consolidated interim
financial statements of Electronic Arts Inc. and subsidiaries that are included in its Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2005.

Pursuant to Rule 436 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Act), such report is not considered
part of a registration statement prepared or certified by an independent registered public
accounting firm, or a report prepared or certified by an independent registered public accounting
firm within the meaning of Sections 7 and 11 of the Act.

KPMG LLP

Mountain View, California 
February 7, 2006

</EX-15.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 f16210exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. 

Certification of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Exchange Act 
As Adopted Pursuant to 
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

I, Lawrence F. Probst III, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Electronic Arts Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b. 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused
such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Dated: February 7, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ Lawrence F. Probst III

Lawrence F. Probst III  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 f16210exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. 

Certification of Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer 
Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Exchange Act 
As Adopted Pursuant to 
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

I, Warren C. Jenson, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer,
certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Electronic Arts
Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
and other financial information included in this report, fairly present
in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and
I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a. 
       
     Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under
our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

b. 
       
     Designed such
internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed
under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes
in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c. 
       
     Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this
report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and
I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

a. 
       
     All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether
or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting. 

Dated: February 7, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ Warren C. Jenson

Warren C. Jenson  

Executive Vice President,
Chief Financial and Administrative Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 f16210exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. 

Certification of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 
As Adopted Pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Electronic Arts Inc. on Form 10-Q for the period ended
December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
 Report ), I, Lawrence F. Probst III, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Electronic Arts Inc.,
certify, pursuant to 18 USC Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 ( Section 906 ), that to my knowledge:

1. 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

2. 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of Electronic Arts Inc. for the periods presented
therein. 

/s/ Lawrence F. Probst III                                                                  

Lawrence F. Probst III 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Electronic Arts Inc.

February 7, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form
within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided
to Electronic Arts and will be retained by Electronic Arts and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 f16210exv32w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2 

ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. 

Certification of Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer 
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 
As Adopted Pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Electronic Arts Inc. on Form 10-Q for the period ended
December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
 Report ), I, Warren C. Jenson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Administrative
Officer of Electronic Arts Inc., certify, pursuant to 18 USC Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( Section 906 ), that to my knowledge:

1. 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

2. 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of Electronic Arts Inc. for the periods presented
therein. 

/s/ Warren C. Jenson                                                                  

Warren C. Jenson 
Executive Vice President, 
Chief Financial and Administrative Officer 
Electronic Arts Inc. 
February 7, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form
within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided
to Electronic Arts and will be retained by Electronic Arts and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.2>

