<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060209_10-Q_edgar_data_47518_0000950137-06-001580_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>406848</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>140294</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>162780</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>26</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-001580.hdr.sgml : 20060209
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060209170856
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-001580
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060209
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060209

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000047518
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS FURNITURE & FIXTURES [2590]
		IRS NUMBER:				351160484
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06651
		FILM NUMBER:		06593994

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		700 STATE ROUTE 46 E
		CITY:			BATESVILLE
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			47006-8835
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8129347000

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Fjmjj0g8xuGG+JW7yv46ILT7olIoa6WJTq4Ln1OQQxEH3CSONvC0dTXMuGn8LPUA
 vKuHF7exBXZo43Kgh23Tag==

 0000950137-06-001580.txt : 20060209

10-Q
 1
 c02293e10vq.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT

e10vq 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

Quarterly Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2005 Commission File No. 1-6651 

HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

(812) 934-7000  
(Registrant s telephone number, including area code)

Not Applicable  
(Former name, former address and former 
fiscal year, if changed since last report)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or   15(d)   of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 

Yes              No        

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition  accelerated filer and
large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check one): 

Large
accelerated filer              

Accelerated
filer             

Non-accelerated
filer             

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 

Yes             
No         

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common stock, as
of the latest practicable date. 

Common Stock, without par value   61,324,917 shares as of January 31, 2006.

Table of Contents   

HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC.  

INDEX TO FORM 10-Q  

Page  

PART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Item 1 - Financial Statements (Unaudited) 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the Quarterly Periods Ended 12/31/05 and 12/31/04 and Use of Proceeds 

43 

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at 12/31/05 and 9/30/05 

4 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Quarterly Periods Ended 12/31/05 and 12/31/04 

5 

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 

6-24 

Item 2 - Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

25-40 

Item 3 - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks 

41 

Item 4 - Controls and Procedures 

41-42 

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION  

Item 1 - Legal Proceedings 

43 

Item 2 - Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

43 

Item 6 - Exhibits 

44 

SIGNATURES  

45 

Certification of CEO    
     Certification of CFO    
     Certification of CEO    
     Certification of CFO    

2

Table of Contents   

PART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 

Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income 

(Dollars in millions except per share data)

See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements

3

Table of Contents   

Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets 

(Dollars in millions)

See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements

4

Table of Contents   

Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

(Dollars in millions)

See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements

5

Table of Contents   

Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 

(Dollars in millions except per share data)

1.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation 

The unaudited, condensed consolidated financial statements appearing in this quarterly
report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes
thereto included in the Company s latest Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms
 Hillenbrand,   the Company,   we,   our  and  us  refer to Hillenbrand Industries, Inc.
and its consolidated subsidiaries, and the terms  Hill-Rom Company,   Batesville Casket
Company,  and derivations thereof, refer to one or more of the subsidiary companies of
Hillenbrand that comprise those respective business units. The year-end Condensed
Consolidated Balance Sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not
include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. In the opinion of management, the financial statements herein include
all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to state fairly
the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods
presented. Quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of annual results.

In 2004, we closed the sale of Forethought Financial Services, Inc. ( Forethought ) to FFS
Holdings, Inc., an acquisition vehicle formed by the Devlin Group, LLC, which acquired all
the common stock of Forethought and its subsidiaries for a combination of cash and other
consideration. Because of the need for regulatory approval, we were not able to include
with that transaction the sale of Forethought Federal Savings Bank ( FFSB ), which had been
a subsidiary of Forethought, but instead retained ownership of FFSB pending approval from
the Office of Thrift Supervision. We received that approval at the end of December 2005
and closed the sale on January 3, 2006, receiving cash consideration of approximately $6.5
million. We recognized a loss on this transaction of
$0.6 million (net-of-tax) in the first quarter of
fiscal 2006.

As the sale was not completed prior to the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the
operations of FFSB continued to be presented as discontinued operations within our
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for all periods presented herein. Under this
presentation, the revenues and costs associated with the business have been removed from
the individual line items comprising the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and
are presented in a separate section entitled,  Discontinued Operations . On the Condensed
Consolidated Balance Sheets, the assets and liabilities of FFSB are also presented
separately. Within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, year-to-date
operating, investing and financing activities of FFSB are reflected within the respective
captions of the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Principles of Consolidation 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries. Material intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation.

Revision
of Prior Year Amounts 

Certain
immaterial prior year amounts have been revised to appropriately
reflect $5.5 million of stock-based
accrued compensation as equity as opposed to a liability. This
revision had no impact on results of operations, cash flows or
earnings per share.

6

Table of Contents   

Current Investments 

At December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, we held $44.0 million and $91.0 million,
respectively, of current investments, which consist of auction rate municipal bonds
classified as available-for-sale securities. Our investments in these securities are
recorded at cost, which approximates fair market value due to their variable interest rates,
which typically reset every 7 to 35 days, and, despite the long-term nature of their stated
contractual maturities, we have the ability to quickly liquidate these securities. As a
result, we had no cumulative gross unrealized holding gains (losses) or gross realized gains
(losses) from our current investments. All income generated from these current investments
was recorded as Investment income.

Investments 

We use the equity method of accounting for certain private equity limited partnership
investments, with earnings or losses reported within Other income in the Condensed
Consolidated Statements of Income. Our portion of any unrealized gains (losses) related to
such investments are charged or credited to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in
shareholders  equity, and deferred taxes are recognized for the income tax effect of any
such unrealized gains and losses. Earnings and values for investments accounted for under
the equity method are determined based on financial statements provided by the investment
companies. The majority of these private equity limited partnerships were retained by us
upon the divestiture of Forethought. Other minority investments are accounted for on either
a cost or equity basis, dependent upon our level of influence over the investee. The seller
financing provided upon the divestiture of Forethought included preferred stock at a
notional amount of $28.7 million, which accrues cumulative dividends at the rate of 5
percent per annum. The preferred stock is redeemable at any time at the option of FFS
Holdings, Inc., the entity that purchased Forethought, and must be redeemed by FFS Holdings,
Inc. under specified circumstances. This investment is recorded at amortized cost and
classified as held-to-maturity.

When a security is sold, we report the difference between the sales proceeds and amortized
cost (determined based on specific identification) as a capital gain or loss.

We regularly evaluate all investments for possible impairment based on current economic
conditions, credit loss experience and other criteria. If there is a decline in a
security s net realizable value that is other-than-temporary, the decline is recognized as a
realized loss and the cost basis of the security is reduced to its estimated fair value.
The evaluation of investments for impairment requires significant judgments to be made
including (i) the identification of potentially impaired securities; (ii) the determination
of their estimated fair value; and (iii) assessment of whether any decline in estimated fair
value was other than temporary.

For the quarterly periods ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, we recognized investment income
and capital gains on our investments of $9.1 million and $1.3 million, respectively. These
amounts were recorded as a component of Investment income within our Condensed Consolidated
Statements of Income.

Stock-Based Compensation 

Prior to fiscal 2006, we applied the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion
No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  in accounting for stock-based
compensation. As a result, no compensation expense was recognized for stock options granted
with exercise prices equivalent to the fair market value of stock on date of grant.
Compensation expense was recognized on other forms of stock-based compensation, including
stock and performance-based awards and units. Effective October 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS
No. 123(R),  Share Based Payment,  using the modified prospective application method. Under
this method, as of October 1, 2005, we will apply the provisions of this Statement to new
and modified awards, as well as to the nonvested portion of awards granted before the
required effective date and outstanding at such time.

7

Table of Contents   

The adoption of this pronouncement
had no effect on compensation cost recorded in fiscal year 2005 related to stock options,
which will continue to be disclosed on a pro forma basis only.

Some of our stock-based compensation awards, including both stock options and restricted
stock units, have a retirement eligible provision, whereby awards granted to employees who
have reached the age of 55, have provided five years of service, and have completed at least
one year of service following the grant date of the award, automatically vest when they
retire from the Company. We have previously accounted for this type of arrangement by
recognizing compensation cost (for both pro forma and expense recognition purposes) over the
full stated vesting period of the award and, if the employee retired before the end of the
vesting period, recognizing any remaining unrecognized compensation cost at the date of
retirement. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), new awards granted to retirement eligible
employees are subject to accelerated vesting over a period when the employee s retention of
the award is no longer contingent on providing additional service. Recognizing that many
companies followed the approach formerly used by the Company, the SEC issued guidance on
converting to accelerated vesting for the remaining portion of unvested outstanding awards.
Our transition to this new accelerated vesting was negligible due to our decision to
accelerate the vesting of underwater stock options in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 as
outlined below and the relatively recent introduction of restricted stock units.

An additional requirement of SFAS No. 123(R) is that estimated forfeitures be considered in
determining compensation expense. As previously permitted, we recorded forfeitures when
they occurred. Primarily due to our decision to accelerate the vesting of underwater stock
options, the effect of this accounting change on existing nonvested stock compensation was
negligible.

On September 1, 2005, we accelerated the vesting of certain unvested and underwater options
previously awarded to employees, officers, and other eligible participants under our stock
option plans. As such, we fully vested options to purchase 793,117 shares of our common
stock with exercise prices greater than or equal to $50.48 per share. There was no expense
recognition under the intrinsic value method to our Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Income as a result of this action. The total avoided future compensation expense of $3.5
million (net-of-tax) on the acceleration of these options appears as a pro forma expense in
the fourth quarter of 2005, as permitted in guidance provided by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board ( FASB ).

The purpose of the accelerated vesting of these options was to reduce our future reported
compensation expense upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R) in the first quarter of 2006.
Additionally, the accelerated underwater stock options may not have been fully achieving
their original objectives of incentive compensation and employee retention. The
acceleration may have had a positive effect on employee morale, retention and perception of
value. Our Board of Directors believed, based on the potential expense savings and the
current intrinsic and perceived value of the accelerated stock options, that the
acceleration was in the best interests of the Company and its Shareholders.

As a result of adopting SFAS No. 123(R) on October 1, 2005, our income before income taxes
and net income for the quarter ended December 31, 2005, are $0.3 million and $0.2 million
lower, respectively, than if we had continued to account for share-based compensation under
APB Opinion No. 25. There was no effect on basic and diluted earnings per share from
continuing operations as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), we presented all tax benefits of deductions
resulting from the exercise of stock options as operating cash flows in the Condensed
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. SFAS No. 123(R) requires cash flows resulting from
tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost from the exercise of stock options
(excess tax benefits) to be classified as financing cash flows. This change in
classification had no impact on our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in the
current period.

8

Table of Contents   

The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if we had
applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  to all stock-based employee compensation in fiscal year 2005. The fair value
of stock option grants are estimated on the date of grant. Prior to fiscal year 2005 we
used the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, but all stock options granted subsequent to
October 1, 2004 are valued with the Binomial option-pricing model. Because of the change in
expense recognition for retirement eligible employees, the application of estimated
forfeitures, the 2005 acceleration of vesting on underwater stock options, the fact that our
options vest over three years and additional stock-based compensation grants have been made
subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the results of expensing stock-based
compensation in future periods may have a materially different effect on net income than
that presented below.

Quarterly 

Period Ended 

12/31/04 

Net income, as reported

$ 
     43.6 

Add:

Total stock-based employee compensation,
net of related tax effects, included in
net income, as reported

0.6 

Deduct:

Total stock-based employee compensation,
net of related tax effects, assuming fair
value based method of accounting

(1.6 
     ) 

Pro forma net income

$ 
     42.6 

Earnings per share:

Basic   as reported

$ 
     0.70 

Basic   pro forma

$ 
     0.69 

Diluted   as reported

$ 
     0.70 

Diluted   pro forma

$ 
     0.68 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations   an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143  ( FIN 47 ). FIN 47
provides guidance relating to the identification of and financial reporting for legal
obligations to perform an asset retirement activity. FIN 47 clarifies a conditional asset
retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations,  as a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the
timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be
within the control of the entity. Accordingly, an entity is required to recognize a
liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value
of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The fair value of a liability for the
conditional asset retirement obligation should be recognized when incurred, generally upon
acquisition, construction or development and/or through the normal operation of the asset.
Uncertainty about the timing and/or method of settlement of the conditional asset retirement
obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient
information exists. The provisions of FIN 47 are required to be applied no later than the
end of fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. As such, we are required to adopt FIN
47 by September 30, 2006. We are currently evaluating the effect of this Interpretation on
our consolidated financial statements and results of operations.

9

Table of Contents   
 
 2.    Supplementary Balance Sheet Information

The following information pertains to assets and consolidated shareholders  equity:

3.    Acquisitions

During fiscal 2004, Hill-Rom completed the acquisitions of Advanced Respiratory, Inc.
( ARI ), Mediq, Incorporated ( Mediq ) and NaviCare Systems, Inc. ( NaviCare ). The results
of these businesses have been included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
since each acquisition s date of close.

On October 17, 2003, Hill-Rom acquired ARI, a manufacturer and distributor of non-invasive
airway clearance products and systems, for approximately $105.2 million. This purchase
price included a first quarter 2005 payment of $8.2 million resulting from net revenues
achieved in fiscal 2004 and a first quarter 2006 payment of $5.7 million that had been
previously deferred and accrued in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September
30, 2005. All purchase price obligations relative to ARI have now been completed.

On January 30, 2004, Hill-Rom acquired Mediq, a company in the medical equipment outsourcing
and asset management business, for approximately $334.8 million. This purchase price
included $23 million deposited in an escrow account, of which $20 million remained at
December 31, 2005 related to potential adjustments resulting primarily from the funded
status of Mediq s defined benefit pension plan as of the end of fiscal 2005, along with the
occurrence of any issues associated with seller representations, warranties and other
matters. The escrow amount has been included in the allocation of purchase price. We
currently estimate that any adjustment related to Mediq s pension plan will be favorable to
us. Final resolution of the remaining amount in escrow is expected to occur in fiscal 2006.
If any adjustment differs in amount from the current escrow balance, the reported purchase
price would be decreased by the amount of any valid claims against the escrow amounts, and
the reported amount of goodwill associated with the Mediq acquisition would be adjusted
downward accordingly.

On January 30, 2004, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 84 percent of the equity
of NaviCare that we did not already own for approximately $14.1 million.

10

Table of Contents   

The allocation of purchase price for these acquisitions is complete, with the exception of
the finalization of the Mediq escrow account outlined above and for certain tax valuation
allowances also related to Mediq that would be recognized as a reduction of goodwill if ever
realized.

4.    Discontinued Operations

With the exception of Forethought Federal Savings Bank ( FFSB ), on July 1, 2004, we
completed the sale of Forethought Financial Services, Inc. to FFS Holdings, Inc., an
acquisition vehicle formed by the Devlin Group, LLC, which acquired all the common stock of
Forethought and its subsidiaries for a combination of cash, seller financing, certain
retained assets of Forethought and stock warrants. Total nominal consideration for the
transaction was approximately $295.1 million. Hillenbrand received cash proceeds in the
transaction of approximately $104.9 million. An additional cash payment of approximately
$6.5 million was received in January 2006, upon the closure of the sale of FFSB. We
recognized a loss on this transaction of $0.6 million (net-of-tax) in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.

As the sale of FFSB was not completed prior to the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2006,
its results continued to be reflected as discontinued operations within the Condensed
Consolidated Statements of Income for all periods presented herein in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets .

Operating results for FFSB were as follows for the quarterly periods ended December 31, 2005
and 2004:

The assets and liabilities of FFSB are included in the assets and liabilities of
discontinued operations which were presented on separate line items within the Condensed
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005. Components of
assets and liabilities of discontinued operations were as follows:

11

Table of Contents   

5.    Retirement Plans

Hillenbrand and its subsidiaries have several defined benefit retirement plans covering the
majority of employees, including certain employees in foreign countries. We contribute
funds to trusts as necessary to provide for current service and for any unfunded projected
future benefit obligation over a reasonable period. The benefits for these plans are based
primarily on years of service and the employee s level of compensation during specific
periods of employment. We also sponsor nonqualified, unfunded defined benefit pension plans
for certain members of management.

The components of net pension expense for defined benefit retirement plans for the quarterly
periods ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

As of December 31, 2005 we have made contributions of approximately $0.2 million to our
defined benefit retirement plans during fiscal 2006. We presently anticipate contributing
an additional $1.6 million during fiscal year 2006 to fund our pension plans, for a total
contribution of $1.8 million. In June 2005, we fully funded our master defined benefit
retirement plan by contributing approximately $75.5 million. As a result, future funding
requirements associated with this plan will be reduced.

We sponsor both qualified and nonqualified defined contribution retirement plans for all
eligible employees, as defined in the plan documents. The qualified plans fall under
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the qualified plans are based
on both employee and Company contributions. Our contributions to the plans were $3.4
million and $3.9 million, for the quarterly periods ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. We expect to contribute an additional $12.4 million to the plans during the
remainder of fiscal year 2006 for a total of $15.8 million compared to $14.7 million in
fiscal 2005. The nonqualified plans are unfunded and carried a liability of less than $1
million at December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005.

6.    Comprehensive Income

SFAS No. 130,  Reporting Comprehensive Income,  requires unrealized gains or losses on
available-for-sale securities, foreign currency translation adjustments and minimum pension
liability adjustments to be included in accumulated other comprehensive income.

12

Table of Contents   

The components of comprehensive income are as follows:

The composition of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income at December 31, 2005 and
September 30, 2005 was the cumulative adjustment for unrealized gains on available-for-sale
securities of $8.3 million and $8.9 million, respectively, foreign currency translation
adjustments of ($2.7) million and ($1.6) million, respectively, and a minimum pension
liability adjustment of ($7.0) million and ($6.8) million, respectively.

7.    Special Charges

2005 Actions 

During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2005, we announced several changes intended to simplify
both the corporate and Hill-Rom organizational structures and to support Hill-Rom s strategy
to focus on its core hospital bed frames, therapy support surfaces and services businesses,
while remaining flexible for future opportunities. As part of this change, Hill-Rom
established two commercial divisions, one focusing on North America and one focusing
internationally, each including hospital bed frames, therapy support surfaces and services
businesses with supporting sales, marketing and field service organizations. Hill-Rom also
combined sourcing, manufacturing, and product development under one new function to support
these two commercial divisions. Home care products and services and surgical accessories
are provided through a separate division. At the same time, all Hillenbrand corporate
functions, including human resources, finance, strategy, legal and information technology,
were consolidated with those of Hill-Rom.

In building on these announced changes and to further capitalize on progress we made with
the works council at our Pluvigner, France facility with respect to voluntary departures, we
took additional restructuring actions, in the United States and Europe during the fourth
quarter of 2005. These actions included the elimination of salaried and hourly positions in
the United States and Europe, the outsourcing of various products and sub-assembly parts,
the impairment of certain assets no longer considered necessary to the execution of our
strategy and the termination of certain contractual obligations. These actions resulted in
a fourth quarter fiscal 2005 charge of approximately $30.8 million, including cash charges
related to severance and benefits costs ($24.0 million) and contract termination costs ($0.8
million). The reduction in employees participating in our Supplemental Executive Retirement
plan related to this action necessitated a curtailment charge of approximately $1.2 million.
Non-cash charges of $4.8 million were incurred related to the asset impairments previously
mentioned.

13

Table of Contents   

Fiscal 2006 activity for the above described actions, whose additional provisions were
predominantly related to the continuation of the voluntary severance program at our French
manufacturing facility, was as follows:

In addition to the costs of these actions incurred to date, additional costs related
directly to the actions are expected to be incurred over the next twelve to fifteen months,
most notably in Europe. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $17.4 million remained in the
reserve related to these actions.

Also in the fourth quarter of 2005, Batesville Casket recorded a special charge of
approximately $0.8 million for severance and benefit-related costs resulting from a
right-sizing of the operation. All charges associated with this action will be paid in cash
and are expected to be incurred over the next nine months. At December 31, 2005,
approximately $0.5 million remained in the reserve.

In the third fiscal quarter of 2005, we announced plans to close Batesville Casket s Nashua,
New Hampshire plant and consolidate Batesville s solid wood casket production into its
Batesville, Mississippi plant ( Panola ). The consolidation of the two plants is expected
to result in a total pre-tax charge of approximately $4.5 million, that should be realized
through the estimated completion of the consolidation in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.
Cash components of these charges include approximately $2.3 million in employee-related
costs, including severance, pension and other termination benefits, and approximately $1.6
million in costs related to the transfer of equipment, training of employees and other
associated costs. The remaining $0.6 million consists of non-cash charges resulting from
the accelerated depreciation of equipment and amortization of software. Approximately $1.8
million of this charge was incurred in the third fiscal quarter of 2005, of which $1.5
million of severance and benefit costs was recorded as a special charge. At December 31,
2005, approximately $0.7 million remained in the reserve.

Additionally, in May 2005 we announced the retirement of Frederick Rockwood, former Chief
Executive Officer. We incurred a charge of approximately $2.4 million related to future
payments and other compensation related items under the terms of Mr. Rockwood s retirement
agreement. Approximately $1.9 million remained in the reserve at December 31, 2005, of
which $1.1 million was paid in January 2006. The remaining $0.8 million relates primarily
to health care and other benefits that will be paid through 2013.

2004 Actions 

During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2004, we announced a restructuring intended to better
align Hill-Rom s financial and personnel resources to fully support its growth initiatives,
decrease overall costs, and improve performance in Europe. The plan included the expected
elimination of approximately 130 salaried positions in the U.S. and approximately 100
positions in Europe and resulted in a fourth quarter charge of approximately $7.3 million
associated with severance and benefit-related costs. As of December 31, 2005, approximately
$0.3 million remained in the reserve, related to the payout of terminated positions. All
remaining obligations associated with this action will be settled in cash.

14

Table of Contents   

8.   Income Taxes

The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 was 37.7 percent compared to
37.0 percent for the first quarter of 2005. The higher rate in 2006 when compared to the
prior year is the result of a number of factors, including a higher foreign tax rate
differential and the reduced availability of tax credits in the U.S.

These
unfavorable impacts are being partially offset in the first quarter
of fiscal 2006 through the recognition of certain discrete period tax
benefits related to the filing of amended state tax returns and the
finalization of other tax positions. These items resulted in the
recognition of tax benefits of approximately $1.2 million during
the quarter, thus reducing our effective tax rate from approximately
39.0 percent to 37.7 percent for the quarter.

9.    Earnings per Common Share

Basic earnings per share were calculated based upon the weighted average number of
outstanding common shares for the period, plus the effect of deferred vested shares.
Diluted earnings per share were calculated consistent with the basic earnings per share
calculation including the effect of dilutive unissued common shares related to stock-based
employee compensation programs. For all periods presented, anti-dilutive stock options were
excluded in the calculation of diluted earnings per share. Excluded shares were 1,942,132
and 902,444 for the three-month periods ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Cumulative
treasury stock acquired, less cumulative shares reissued, have been excluded in determining
the average number of shares outstanding.

Earnings per share is calculated as follows:

10.   Stock Based Compensation

Over time, we have had various stock-based compensation programs, the key components of
which are further described below. Our primary active stock-based compensation program is
the Stock Incentive Plan. All stock-based compensation programs are administered by the
Board of Directors or its Compensation and Management Development Committee.

15

Table of Contents   

The Stock Incentive Plan, which was approved at the 2002 annual meeting of shareholders,
replaced the 1996 Stock Option Plan. Common shares reserved for issuance under the Stock
Incentive Plan total 5 million, plus 294,611 shares previously authorized but unissued under
the 1996 Stock Option Plan. The Stock Incentive Plan provides for long-term performance
compensation for key employees and members of the Board of Directors. A variety of
discretionary awards for employees and non-employee directors are authorized under the plan,
including incentive or non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
stock, deferred stock and bonus stock. The vesting of such awards may be conditioned upon
either a specified period of time or the attainment of specific performance goals as
determined by the administrator of the plan. The option price and term are also subject to
determination by the administrator with respect to each grant. Option prices are generally
expected to be set at the average fair market price at date of grant and option terms are
not expected to exceed ten years.

As of December 31, 2005, 2,394,364 option shares have been granted and 653,575 shares have
been cancelled under the Stock Incentive Plan. In addition, a total of 504,871 restricted
stock units have been granted and 103,980 restricted stock units have been cancelled under
the Stock Incentive Plan. A total of 3,152,931 shares remain available for future grants
under all aspects of the Stock Incentive Plan.

The compensation cost that was charged against income for all plans was $0.9 million and
$1.0 million for the quarters ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The total
income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for stock compensation agreements was
$0.3 million and $0.4 million for the quarters ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Had we followed SFAS 123 instead of APB Opinion No. 25, and as disclosed in
the additional pro forma information in Note 1, we would have recorded an additional net of
tax charge of $1.0 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2004.

We have a policy of repurchasing shares on the open market to satisfy stock option exercises
and stock distributions. At December 31, 2005, the Company holds 19,030,388 shares of
Treasury Stock, and therefore will not be required to purchase additional shares in fiscal
2006 to satisfy stock option exercises and share distributions.

Stock Options 

The fair value of option grants under our Stock Incentive Plan and the predecessor 1996
Stock Option Plan are estimated on the date of grant. Prior to fiscal year 2005 we used the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model, but all stock options granted subsequent to October 1,
2004 are valued with the Binomial option-pricing model. Our Binomial model incorporates the
possibility of early exercise of options into the valuation, as well as our historical
exercise and termination experience to determine the option value. For these reasons, we
believe the Binomial model provides a fair value that is more representative of actual
historical experience than the value calculated under the Black-Scholes model. The weighted
average fair value of options granted was $11.97 and $13.19 per share for the first three
months of fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively. The following assumptions were used in
the determination of fair value in each period:

The risk free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for
the term of our employee stock options. The dividend yield assumption is based on the
history and our expectation of dividend payouts. Our computation of expected volatility for
the valuation of stock options granted in the quarter ended December 31, 2005 is based on
historical volatility. The expected life of employee stock options represents the weighted

16

Table of Contents   

average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding and is a derived output
of the binomial model. The expected life of employee stock options is impacted by the above
assumptions as well as the post-vesting forfeiture rate and the exercise factor used in the
binomial model. These two variables are based on the history of exercises and forfeitures
for previous stock options granted by the Company.

The following table summarizes transactions under our current and predecessor stock option
plans for the first three months of fiscal year 2006:

(1) The aggregate intrinsic value represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based
on Hillenbrand s closing stock price of $49.41 as of December 31, 2005, which would have
been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options as of
that date. This amount changes continuously based on the fair value of Hillenbrand s stock.

As of December 31, 2005, there was $4.2 million of total unrecognized compensation expense
related to stock options granted under the Plan. This unrecognized
compensation expense does not reflect a reduction for our estimate of
potential forfeitures, and is expected to be recognized
over a weighted average period of 2.7 years. The total intrinsic value of options exercised
during the quarters ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $0.1 million and $0.6 million,
respectively.

On September 1, 2005, the Company accelerated the vesting of certain unvested and underwater
options previously awarded to employees, officers, and other eligible participants under the
Company s stock option plans. As such, the Company fully vested options to purchase 793,117
shares of the Company s common stock with exercise prices greater than or equal to $50.48
per share.

Restricted Stock Units 

The fair value of restricted stock units ( RSUs ) is the value at the date of grant ranging
between $48.96 and $69.25 per share. The grants are contingent upon continued employment
and vest over periods ranging from one to five years. Dividends, payable in stock, accrue
on the grants and are subject to the same specified terms as the original grants. As of
December 31, 2005, a total of 5,906 stock units have accumulated on nonvested RSUs due to
dividend reinvestment.

The following table summarizes transactions for our RSUs, excluding dividend reinvestment
units, for the first three months of fiscal year 2006:

17

Table of Contents   

As of December 31, 2005, there was $10.6 million of total unrecognized compensation expense
related to nonvested RSUs granted under the Plan. This unrecognized
compensation expense does not reflect a reduction for our estimate of
potential forfeitures, and is expected to be recognized
over a weighted average period of 4.0 years. The total vest date fair value of shares
vested during the quarter ended December 31, 2005 was $0.8 million.

Deferred Stock 

Under the terms of the plan, each non-employee director was automatically granted an option
to purchase 4,000 shares of common stock each year on the first day following our annual
meeting, vesting on the first anniversary of the date of grant and exercisable over a ten
year term. Beginning in fiscal 2004, instead of options, each non-employee member of the
Board of Directors was granted RSUs (or deferred stock awards), which are payable in shares
of common stock on the later to occur of the first anniversary of the date of grant or the
required waiting period after the date that a director ceases to be a member of our Board of
Directors (75 days for the 2005 grant and six months for the 2004 grant). In 2005, the
annual grant consisted of 1,800 RSUs for each non-employee director. The annual grant for
the Chairman of the Board is 3,500 RSUs.

Members of the Board of Directors may elect to defer fees earned and invest them in common
stock of the Company under the Hillenbrand Industries Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan.
A total of 1,813 deferred shares are payable as of December 31, 2005 under this program.

We have historically had various other stock-based compensation programs, including a
long-term performance based plan. Shares granted under these predecessor programs were
contingent upon continued employment over specified terms, generally not exceeding three
years, and some required the achievement of pre-established and approved financial
objectives. As of December 31, 2005, there are 55,279 shares which are deferred, but fully
vested and payable.

11.    Guarantees

Limited warranties are routinely granted on our products with respect to defects in material
and workmanship. The terms of these warranties are generally one year, however, certain
components and products have substantially longer warranty periods. A reserve is recognized
with respect to these obligations at the time of product sale, with subsequent warranty
claims recorded directly against the reserve. The amount of the warranty reserve is
determined based on historical trend experience for the covered products. For more
significant warranty-related matters which might require a broad-based correction, separate
reserves are established when such events are identified and the cost of correction can be
reasonably estimated. A reconciliation of changes in the warranty reserve for the periods
covered in this report is as follows:

In the normal course of business we enter into various other guarantees and indemnities in
our relationships with suppliers, service providers, customers, business partners and
others. Examples of these arrangements would include guarantees of product performance,
indemnifications to service providers and indemnifications of our actions to

18

Table of Contents   

business
partners. These guarantees and indemnifications would not materially impact our financial
condition or results of operations, although indemnifications associated with our actions
generally have no dollar limitations.

In conjunction with our acquisition and divestiture activities, we have entered into select
guarantees and indemnifications of performance with respect to the fulfillment of
commitments under applicable purchase and sale agreements. The arrangements generally
indemnify the buyer or seller for damages associated with breach of contract, inaccuracies
in representations and warranties surviving the closing date and satisfaction of liabilities
and commitments retained under the applicable agreement. For those representations and
warranties that survive closing, they generally survive for periods up to five years or the
expiration of the applicable statutes of limitations. Potential losses under the
indemnifications are generally limited to a portion of the original transaction price, or to
other lesser specific dollar amounts for select provisions. With respect to sale
transactions, we also routinely enter into non-competition agreements for varying periods of
time. Guarantees and indemnifications with respect to acquisitions and divestiture
activities would not materially impact our financial condition or results of operations.

12.   Segment Reporting

SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, 
requires reporting of segment information that is consistent with the way in which
management operates and views the Company.

We are organized into two operating companies serving the health care and funeral service
industries. Hill-Rom is a manufacturer of equipment for the health care industry, a
provider of associated systems for wound, pulmonary and circulatory care and a provider of
biomedical equipment rentals and other services to enhance the operational efficiency and
asset utilization of health care facilities. Batesville Casket serves the funeral service
industry and manufactures and sells a variety of metal and hardwood caskets and a line of
urns and caskets used in cremation. Batesville s products are sold to licensed funeral
professionals operating licensed funeral homes.

With the combination of the Corporate and Hill-Rom organizational structures and the new
Hill-Rom strategy to focus on its core hospital bed frames, therapy support surfaces and
services businesses, as announced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, numerous changes
have recently been made to the manner in which management operates and views the Company.
To help affect these changes, Hill-Rom established two commercial divisions, one focusing on
North America and one focusing internationally, each consisting of hospital bed frames,
therapy support surfaces and services businesses with supporting sales, marketing and field
service organizations. In addition, Hill-Rom also combined sourcing, manufacturing, and
product development under one new function to support these two commercial divisions.
Further, Home care products and services and surgical accessories are now provided through a
separate division. Finally, all Hillenbrand corporate functions, including human resources,
finance, strategy, legal and information technology, were consolidated with those of
Hill-Rom to improve overall efficiency and effectiveness.

With the implementation of these changes, our reporting structure now includes the following
reporting segments:

Hill-Rom North America Sales, Service and Marketing ( NASSM  or  North America ) 

Hill-Rom International ( International ) 

Hill-Rom Home Care and Surgical Accessories ( Home Care and Surgical ) 

Batesville Casket

19

Table of Contents   

For the combined Hill-Rom and Corporate organizations, we also break out certain functional
costs and eliminations to aid in the reconciliation of segment information to consolidated
Hillenbrand financial information. We also break out certain continuing public entity and
corporate-related costs separately to improve readability and understanding of our reporting
segment financial information.

In terms of the manner in which performance of the reporting segments is evaluated,
performance of the combined Hill-Rom and Corporate organizations is now measured on a
divisional income basis before special charges. Divisional income under this approach is
defined as divisional gross profit, less direct operating costs of the respective division.
This measure excludes a number of functional costs that are managed on an overall
Hill-Rom/Corporate basis, including research and development, distribution, finance,
information technology, human resources, legal, regulatory and strategy. As the Home Care
and Surgical Accessories division operates as a separate division, certain of these defined
functional costs are borne directly by them and are therefore included in their divisional
income.

With respect to the reporting of revenues in this structure, the division responsible for
the ultimate sale to the end customer is the only division to receive credit for the
revenue. As a result, there are no intersegment sales between the divisions requiring
elimination for segment reporting purposes.

The performance of Batesville Casket is measured on the basis of income from continuing
operations before special charges and income taxes.

Intersegment sales do not occur between Hill-Rom and Batesville Casket. The results of
Forethought Federal Savings Bank, a subsidiary of Forethought Financial Services which was
previously considered a reporting segment, are presented in the results from discontinued
operations as further discussed in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements.

20

Table of Contents   

Financial information regarding our reportable segments is presented below. Segment data
for 2005 has been restated to conform with the new reporting structure outlined above:

13.   Commitments and Contingencies

On June 30, 2003, Spartanburg Regional Healthcare System (the  Plaintiff ) filed a purported
antitrust class action lawsuit against Hillenbrand, Hill-Rom, Inc. and Hill-Rom Company,
Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. As of November
7, 2005, all proceedings in the lawsuit were stayed except those relating to the parties 
efforts to complete a settlement. On February 3, 2006 the Court preliminarily approved a
definitive agreement to settle the case for $337.5 million in cash entered into as of
February 2, 2006 among Hillenbrand, its Hill-Rom subsidiaries, Spartanburg Regional
Healthcare System and its attorneys. The settlement agreement includes Hill-Rom s
commitment to continue certain company initiated discounting practices for a period of three
years.
  The proposed settlement is subject to final Court approval in
connection with a fairness hearing following notice to class members. The Court has
scheduled the fairness hearing on June 12, 2006. If finally approved by the Court, the
settlement is expected to resolve all of the plaintiffs  claims
and those of most U.S. and
Canadian purchasers or renters of Hill-Rom products from 1990 through February 2, 2006
related to or arising out of the subject matter of the lawsuit, including all claims that
may result from the current or future effects of conduct or events occurring through
February 2, 2006. While we are encouraged by progress toward a final settlement, there is
no assurance that the Court will ultimately grant final approval of
the settlement. Moreover, we have the option to terminate the
settlement agreement if the total of opt out purchases and rentals as
a percentage of all purchases and rentals exceeds a confidential
percentage. U.S. and Canadian governmental purchases and rentals are
excluded from that calculation.

21

Table of Contents   

In connection with our assessment that it was probable that a settlement would be reached
and will be finally approved by the Court during fiscal 2006, we recorded a litigation
charge and established a litigation accrual in the amount of $358.6 million in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2005, which includes certain legal and other costs associated with the
proposed settlement.

Plaintiff s Second Amended Complaint, filed on May 9, 2005, alleged violations of the
federal antitrust laws, including attempted monopolization, monopoly maintenance and tying
claims. Plaintiff sought to certify a class of all purchasers of Hill-Rom    standard
and/or specialty hospital beds, and/or architectural and in-room products from 1990 to the
present where there have been contracts between Hill-Rom and such purchasers, either on
behalf of themselves or through purchasing organizations, conditioning discounts on
Hill-Rom    hospital beds and other architectural and in-room products on commitments to
rent or purchase a very high percentage (e.g. ninety percent) of specialty beds from
Hill-Rom. Plaintiff subsequently narrowed the definition of its proposed class to acute and
subacute facilities. Plaintiff claimed that it and the alleged class sustained injury
caused by Hill-Rom s discounting practices, which allegedly harmed competition and resulted
in higher prices for standard and/or specialty hospital beds and/or architectural and
in-room products.

Plaintiff sought actual monetary damages on behalf of the purported class in excess of $100
million, trebling of any such damages that might have been awarded, recovery of attorney
fees and costs, and injunctive relief. If a final definitive settlement is not achieved, we
anticipate the Plaintiff would seek damages substantially in excess of $100 million, before
trebling. If a class were to be certified and if Plaintiffs were to prevail at trial,
potential trebled damages awarded the Plaintiffs could be substantially in excess of $100
million and have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations,
financial condition, and liquidity. Therefore, if the proposed settlement is not
consummated, we will continue to aggressively defend against Plaintiff s allegations and
will continue to assert what we believe to be meritorious defenses to class certification
and Plaintiff s allegations and damage theories.

On May 2, 2005, a non-profit entity called Funeral Consumers Alliance, Inc. and several
individual consumers filed a purported class action antitrust lawsuit ( FCA Action ) against
three national funeral home businesses, Service Corporation International ( SCI ),
Alderwoods Group, Inc. ( Alderwoods ), and Stewart Enterprises, Inc. ( Stewart ) together
with Hillenbrand and its Batesville Casket Company, Inc. subsidiary ( Batesville ), in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of California ( Court ). This
lawsuit alleged a conspiracy to suppress competition in an alleged market for the sale of
caskets through a group boycott of so-called  independent casket discounters,  that is,
third party casket sellers unaffiliated with licensed funeral homes; a campaign of
disparagement against these independent casket discounters; and concerted efforts to
restrict casket price competition and to coordinate and fix casket pricing, all in violation
of federal antitrust law and California s Unfair Competition Law. The lawsuit claimed,
among other things, that Batesville s maintenance and enforcement of, and alleged
modifications to, its long-standing policy of selling caskets only to licensed funeral homes
were the product of a conspiracy among Batesville, the other defendants and others to
exclude  independent casket discounters  and that this alleged conspiracy, combined with
other alleged matters, suppressed competition in the alleged market for caskets and led
consumers to pay higher than competitive prices for caskets. The FCA Action alleged that
two of Batesville s competitors, York Group, Inc. and Aurora Casket Company, are
co-conspirators but did not name them as defendants. The FCA Action also alleged that SCI,
Alderwoods, Stewart and other unnamed co-conspirators conspired to monopolize the alleged
market for the sale of caskets in the United States.

After the FCA Action was filed, several more purported class action lawsuits on behalf of
consumers were filed based on essentially the same factual allegations and alleging
violations of federal antitrust law and/or related state law claims. It is not unusual to
have multiple copycat class action suits filed after an initial filing, and it is possible
that

22

Table of Contents   

additional suits based on the same or similar allegations will be brought against
Hillenbrand and Batesville.

Batesville, Hillenbrand and the other defendants filed motions to dismiss the FCA Action and
a motion to transfer to a more convenient forum. In response, the Court permitted the
plaintiffs to replead the complaint and later granted defendants  motion to transfer the
action to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas (Houston,
Texas).

On October 12, 2005, the FCA plaintiffs filed an amended complaint consolidating all but one
of the other purported consumer class actions in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of Texas. The only other purported consumer class action, Fancher v. SCI
et al., has also been consolidated with the FCA case for discovery purposes by the Court in
Texas, though the plaintiffs in that case have filed and are proceeding under a separate
amended complaint. The amended complaints contain the same basic allegations as the original
FCA complaint.

The FCA plaintiffs are seeking certification of a class that includes all United States
consumers who purchased Batesville caskets from any of the funeral home co-defendants at any
time during the fullest period permitted by the applicable statute of limitations. The
Fancher plaintiffs seek certification of a broader class: all United States consumers and
entities who purchased Batesville caskets from any source at any time during the fullest
period permitted by the applicable statute of limitations. Plaintiffs generally seek actual
unspecified monetary damages, trebling of any such damages that may be awarded, recovery of
attorneys  fees and costs and injunctive relief.

On November 10, 2005, Batesville, Hillenbrand, and other defendants moved to dismiss the
amended FCA complaint. A hearing on scheduling occurred on December 6, 2005. As a result,
the Class Certification hearing is scheduled to occur on December 5, 2006. The trial in
this matter is scheduled to begin on or about February 4, 2008.

In addition to the consumer lawsuits discussed above, on July 8, 2005 Pioneer Valley Casket
Co. ( Pioneer Valley ), an alleged casket store and Internet retailer, also filed a
purported class action lawsuit against Batesville, Hillenbrand, Alderwoods, SCI, and Stewart
in the Northern District of California on behalf of the class of  independent casket
distributors,  alleging violations of state and federal antitrust law and state unfair and
deceptive practices laws based on essentially the same factual allegations in the consumer
cases. Pioneer Valley claimed that it and other independent casket distributors were
injured by the defendants  alleged conspiracy to boycott and suppress competition in the
alleged market for caskets, and by an alleged conspiracy among SCI, Alderwoods, Stewart and
other unnamed co-conspirators to monopolize the alleged market for caskets.

Plaintiff Pioneer Valley seeks certification of a class of all independent casket
distributors who are now in business or have been in business since July 8, 2001. Pioneer
Valley generally seeks actual unspecified monetary damages on behalf of the purported class,
trebling of any such damages that may be awarded, recovery of attorneys  fees and costs and
injunctive relief.

The Pioneer Valley complaint was also transferred to the Southern District of Texas but was
not consolidated with the FCA Action, although the scheduling orders for both cases are
identical. On October 21, 2005, Pioneer Valley filed an amended complaint adding three new
plaintiffs, each of whom purports to be a current or former  independent casket
distributor.  Like Pioneer Valley s original complaint, the amended complaint alleges
violations of federal antitrust laws, but it has dropped the causes of actions for alleged
price fixing, conspiracy to monopolize, and violations of state antitrust law and state
unfair and deceptive practices laws. On December 1, 2005, Hillenbrand and Batesville filed
a motion to dismiss this complaint.

23

Table of Contents   

If a class is certified in any of the antitrust cases filed against Hillenbrand and
Batesville and if plaintiffs in any such case prevail at trial, potential trebled damages
awarded to the plaintiffs could have a significant material adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial condition, and/or liquidity. Accordingly, we are aggressively
defending against the allegations made in all of these cases and intend to assert what we
believe to be meritorious defenses to class certification and to plaintiffs  allegations and
damage theories.

After the FCA Action was filed, in the summer and fall of 2005, Batesville was served with
Civil Investigative Demands (CIDs) by the Attorney General of Maryland and certain other
state attorneys general who have begun an investigation of possible anticompetitive
practices in the funeral service industry relating to a range of funeral services and
products, including caskets. Batesville has been informed that approximately 23 state
attorneys general offices are participating in the joint investigation, although more could
join. Batesville has begun production of documents in response to the CIDs.

We are subject to various other claims and contingencies arising out of the normal course of
business, including those relating to commercial transactions, product liability, employee
related matters, antitrust, safety, health, taxes, environmental and other matters.
Litigation is subject to many uncertainties and the outcome of individual litigated matters
is not predictable with assurance. It is possible that some litigation matters for which
reserves have not been established could be decided unfavorably to us, and that any such
unfavorable decisions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.

We are also involved in other possible claims, including product liability, workers
compensation, auto liability and employment related matters. These have deductibles and
self-insured retentions ranging from $150 thousand to $1.5 million per occurrence or per
claim, depending upon the type of coverage and policy period.

Since December 1999, we have purchased deductible reimbursement policies from our
wholly-owned insurance company, Sycamore Insurance Company, for the deductibles and
self-insured retentions associated with our product liability, workers compensation and auto
liability programs. Outside insurance companies and third-party claims administrators
establish individual claim reserves and an independent outside actuary provides estimates of
ultimate projected losses, including incurred but not reported claims. The actuary also
provides estimates of ultimate projected losses used to determine accrual adequacy for
losses incurred prior to December 1999.

Claim reserves for employment related matters are established based upon advice from
internal and external counsel and historical settlement information for claims and related
fees.

The recorded amounts represent our best estimate of the costs we will incur in relation to
such exposures, but it is possible that actual costs could differ from those estimates.

24

Table of Contents   

Item 2.      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying interim
financial statements and our Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2005.

Overview 

Hillenbrand Industries is organized into two operating companies serving the health care and
funeral service industries.

Hill-Rom is a leader in the worldwide health care community. Hill-Rom provides a variety of
products for the patient care environment, non-invasive therapeutic products for pulmonary, wound
and circulatory conditions, and biomedical equipment rentals and other services to enhance the
operational efficiency and asset utilization of health care facilities.

Batesville Casket Company is a leader in the North American death care industry through the sale of
funeral service products, including burial caskets, cremation caskets, containers and urns,
selection room display fixturing and other personalization and memorialization products.

With the combination of the Corporate and Hill-Rom organizational structures and the new Hill-Rom
strategy to focus on its core hospital bed frames, therapy support surfaces and services
businesses, as announced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, numerous changes have recently been
made to the manner in which management operates and views the Company. To help affect these
changes, Hill-Rom established two commercial divisions, one focusing on North America and one
focusing internationally, each consisting of hospital bed frames, therapy support surfaces and
services businesses with supporting sales, marketing and field service organizations. In addition,
Hill-Rom also combined sourcing, manufacturing, and product development under one new function to
support these two commercial divisions. Further, home care products and services and surgical
accessories are now provided through a separate division. Finally, all Hillenbrand corporate
functions, including human resources, finance, strategy, legal and information technology were
consolidated with those of Hill-Rom to improve overall efficiency and effectiveness.

With the implementation of these changes, our reporting structure now includes the following
reporting segments:

Hill-Rom North America Sales, Service and Marketing ( NASSM  or  North America ) 

Hill-Rom International ( International ) 

Hill-Rom Home Care and Surgical Accessories ( Home Care and Surgical ) 

Batesville Casket 

For the combined Hill-Rom and Corporate organizations, we also break out certain functional costs
and eliminations to aid in the reconciliation of segment information to consolidated Hillenbrand
financial information. We also break out certain continuing public entity and corporate-related
costs separately to improve readability and understanding of our reporting segment financial
information.

In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, we included under
the heading  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
- - Overview   Fiscal 2006  a discussion of the material trends affecting our businesses and our
strategic objectives for fiscal 2006. Except as updated by the following discussion, the trends
described in the 2005 Form 10-K continue to apply, and while we have not made any significant
changes in our strategy, we have also provided below an update with respect to certain key
initiatives.

 25

Table of Contents   

At Hill-Rom, we have made progress executing against the following elements of our overall
strategic plan for fiscal year 2006.

Implementing a customer centric sales and service model . We have completed the
realignment of our sales and service model to more closely align ourselves with our
customers, who have provided positive feedback. In conjunction with this effort, we have
better aligned sales incentives, territories and field management to eliminate redundancy
and increase accountability. This new alignment and the focus of our integrated sales and
service teams should improve customer relationships. 

Streamlining the business to reduce cost and complexity . The previously
announced combination of the Hill-Rom and Hillenbrand corporate infrastructures is already
achieving its intended benefits, as evidenced by the lower operating expenses experienced
during the quarter. Further, our restructuring efforts in France are also resulting in
continued improvements in overall European operating results. 

Strengthening our core businesses and improving product planning, development and
sourcing processes . While these strategic components are longer term in nature, they
are progressing as planned. The strategic initiatives described above support the
strengthening of our core businesses. We must also continue to endeavor to deliver best in
class, high quality, cost effective products and services to our customers. To this end,
we recently completed a comprehensive reassessment of our pipeline of research and
development projects, focusing on those products and services that would best support our
core frames, support surfaces and services businesses. Numerous projects were eliminated
from the pipeline while others were allocated increased funding and their timelines
accelerated. We have also initiated improvements in our customer validation processes in
order to gain additional customer insights and opinions earlier in the development process. 

We are also in various stages of submitting bids for or negotiating new or amended group purchasing
organization ( GPO ) contracts to replace our expired or expiring contracts, most of which are
either sole or dual-source contracts that have reached or will reach the end of their current terms
within the next six months. Indications thus far have confirmed our expectations that, given the
industry trend toward multi-source GPO agreements and other factors, it will be difficult to
maintain our sole or dual-source status on these contracts. We may also become an alternative
source for some member organizations of GPOs to which we are not currently a designated supplier. 

Even in the case of sole-source contracts, many of our sales are made on a competitive basis
because actual purchasing decisions are made by the GPO member organizations and not by the GPOs
themselves. Individual hospitals often seek product standardization and remain with the supplier
with which they have had a previous relationship. Changing suppliers can result in costly
retraining of clinical staff and possibly changes in protocols. Because of these dynamics, the
award of a sole source GPO agreement does not generally result in exclusivity for all of that GPO s
member organizations. Likewise, the loss of a sole-source agreement or change of an agreement from
sole to multi-source agreement does not generally result in the inability to make continued sales
to any of the applicable GPO member organizations. It is, therefore, difficult to predict with
certainty the effect on our business and results of operations if sole source contracts are
replaced with multi-source agreements, although such a change could reduce our sales to members of
the applicable GPOs. 

The results of these negotiations may result in other changes in our current relationship with a
number of GPOs and/or their member organizations, including possible changes in product line mix,
average net pricing, volume and sourcing provisions. Depending on the significance of any such
changes, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially
adversely affected. 

Within our health care rental business, we continue to experience fulfillment issues related to a
lack of product availability and an aging of our rental fleet. We are continuing to invest in an 

26

Table of Contents   

effort to upgrade our rental fleet, with capital expenditures of between $50 million and $60
million expected in fiscal 2006.

Our efforts also continue in the stabilization of our new rental business system solution. While
we are not yet fully satisfied with the operation of the system, we are making progress. Many of
the system-related issues have been addressed and we expect our attention to now shift to areas to
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of operating this new system. This includes continued
user training, system enhancements, an increased focus on equipment management, and the leveraging
of the benefits of handheld devices deployed to increase the efficiency and accuracy of delivery,
pick-up and other equipment transactions. The focus of our field sales personnel on stabilization
efforts, however, has had an impact on the time available for them to devote to customer account
conversions. This has been most noted in our bariatric surface products, where revenues are down
year over year.

In the regulatory and legislative area, recently passed deficit reduction legislation reformed
rules regarding Medicare beneficiary rental and ownership of durable medical equipment, along with
payments for service and maintenance of such equipment. We are studying the financial impact of
this measure, but at this time do not believe it to be material.

Important elements of Batesville s fiscal year 2006 strategy include the retention of national
account customers, growth in Batesville s revenue from independent funeral homes, the consolidation
of wood manufacturing, and an increase in revenue through a jobber supply strategy. We recently
completed renegotiation of a new four-year, sole-source supply agreement with Stewart Enterprises.
We also recently signed a new two-year agreement with Carriage Services. Negotiations are
continuing with respect to our largest customer contract, Service Corporation International
( SCI ), however, while these negotiations are continuing SCI continues to purchase from us in
order to fulfill volume commitment shortfalls under their previous contract.

We have also completed our wood plant consolidation, finalizing production in our New Hampshire
facility and transitioning those products to our plant in Batesville, Mississippi. We will work to
bring all production in Mississippi up to full capacity through the first half of the year, while
working down the inventory we built to ensure product availability through the transition period.

With respect to both the health care and funeral service businesses, thus far in fiscal 2006, we
have not seen significant indications or evidence of pneumonia or influenza, which is generally a
seasonal occurrence that favorably impacts both businesses. The timing and severity of any such
outbreak varies year-to-year as was the case in fiscal 2005 when the impacts of pneumonia and
influenza arrived later than normal and the influenza strain was much
less virulent than that in fiscal 2004. The timing and severity of an outbreak could affect, favorably or unfavorably, our
revenues and profitability.

Consolidated Results of Operations 

In this section, we provide a high-level overview of our consolidated results of operations.
Immediately following this section is a more comprehensive discussion of revenues and gross profit
by operating company.

Consolidated Revenues 

27

Table of Contents   

Consolidated revenues for the first quarter of 2006 increased $2.7 million, or 0.6 percent,
compared to the first quarter of 2005. The increase in revenues was primarily related to Funeral
Services sales revenues increasing $6.5 million from the prior year resulting from favorable net
price realization. Health Care rental revenues decreased $3.2 million related to lower volumes and
continued weak pricing, unfavorable foreign exchange and reduced rentals of The Vest   .
Health Care sales revenues decreased $0.6 million in the first quarter due primarily to lower
pricing and unfavorable foreign exchange.

Consolidated Gross Profit 

Consolidated gross profit for the first quarter of 2006 decreased $4.0 million, or 1.8 percent,
from the prior year quarter. As a percentage of sales, consolidated gross profit margins of 45.3
percent fell from 46.4 percent in the prior year period. Health Care sales gross profit decreased
$4.9 million despite relatively flat revenues primarily due to lower pricing and unfavorable mix.
Margins as a percent of revenues declined as a result of the same factors. The decrease in Health
Care rental gross profit was largely due to lower volumes and continued weak pricing. These items,
along with the drop in high margin revenues from The Vest   , also impacted Health Care rental
gross profit as a percentage of revenues, which decreased to 39.1 percent in the first quarter.
Funeral Services gross profit increased $2.7 million, driven by favorable price realization and
continued productivity improvements at our manufacturing locations, partially offset by a continued
gradual shift in product mix from metal to wood caskets and generally to lower-end products that
have slightly lower margins, incremental costs associated with the wood plant consolidation, higher
utility costs and general salary and benefit inflation.

Other  

Other operating expenses decreased $8.2 million for the three-month period ended December 31, 2005
compared to the same prior year period. As a percentage of revenues, operating expenses for the
three-month period of 2006 was 30.5 percent compared to 32.4 percent in the prior year comparable
period. The overall lower expense levels were partially due to savings experienced as a result of
the restructuring activities at our combined Hill-Rom and Corporate organization, which reduced
overall compensation by an estimated $5.8 million. Pension costs were down approximately $1.9
million as a result of the prior year funding of a defined benefit pension plan, while health care
costs were also down $0.8 million for the quarter. Additional favorability was also experienced in
the areas of new product development and engineering, along with lower

28

Table of Contents   

marketing spend based on the
timing of certain programs. This favorability was partially offset by increased legal costs
associated with defending antitrust lawsuits of $1.7 million for the three-month period of 2006
(See Note 13 of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). General
salary inflation also partially offset the favorability above.

Special charges for the three-month period ended December 31, 2005 included additional charges of
approximately $2.4 million, most notably in Europe, as we continued with the restructuring
activities previously announced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.
(See Note 7 to the Condensed
Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail on these actions.)

Interest expense increased $0.8 million compared to the first quarter of 2005 due to the increase
in short-term interest rates and their negative impact to our interest rate swaps on long-term
debt. Investment income for the quarter increased $8.0 million in 2006 from the comparable period
of 2005 due to the favorable performance of the retained limited partnership investments from which
significant gains and corresponding cash distributions were received during the quarter. Other
expense was negligible in both three-month periods ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.

The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 was 37.7 percent compared to 37.0
percent for the first quarter of 2005. The higher rate in 2006 when compared to the prior year is
the result of a number of factors, including a higher foreign tax rate differential and the reduced
availability of tax credits in the U.S. The tax rate is being unfavorably impacted by in excess of
one percent as a result of a higher foreign tax rate differential related primarily to the
continuation of restructuring activities in France. As outlined in the Special Charges note (Note
7) of this Form 10-Q, charges of up to $8 million, including those already taken in the first
quarter, may be incurred for the year in France, resulting in higher losses for which no tax
benefits can be recognized currently. With a full valuation allowance on losses in France, if we
are successful in our restructuring efforts and return France to profitability, our effective tax
rate in future years should be favorably impacted based on our ability to release the recorded
valuation allowance and recognize the tax benefits of the existing losses. The lower tax credits,
which unfavorably impact our tax rate by nearly 0.8 percent, relate primarily to the expiring
research and development credit. While it is possible, if not likely, that this credit will be
extended later this year, no benefit will be taken until such time as any extension is enacted.

These unfavorable impacts are being partially offset in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 through
the recognition of certain discrete period tax benefits related to the filing of amended state tax
returns and the finalization of other tax positions. These items resulted in the recognition of
tax benefits of approximately $1.2 million during the quarter, thus reducing our effective tax rate
from approximately 39.0 percent to 37.7 percent for the quarter.

In addition to the effective tax rate being higher than last year, it is also higher than we had
originally forecast for the year as a result of a number of factors, some directly attributable to
the anticipated settlement of the Spartanburg litigation further outlined in the Commitments and
Contingencies note (Note 13) of this Form 10-Q. Upon finalization and funding of this settlement,
which was fully accrued in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we anticipate reporting a tax loss
for the current fiscal year. As a result of this loss, we will not be able to take advantage of
the current year phase-in of the deduction for qualified domestic production activities as provided
in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. This deduction would have yielded a benefit to our 2006
effective rate of an estimated 1.0 percent. A further impact of the settlement on the effective
tax rate corresponds with the significant decline in tax-exempt income that will result with
funding of the anticipated settlement of the Spartanburg litigation. The estimated reduction in
tax-exempt income added an estimated 0.5 percent to our effective tax rate over that originally
anticipated.

As with the year over year comparison, our originally expected effective tax rate is also being
adversely impacted by the continuation of restructuring activities in France, which will result in
a higher effective tax rate of an estimated 0.5 percent in fiscal 2006 over that originally
planned.

Income from continuing operations increased $5.1 million to $48.6 million in the first quarter of
2006 compared to $43.5 million in the prior year quarter. This equates to diluted earnings per

29

Table of Contents   

share of $0.79 for the three-month period of 2006, compared to $0.69 per share for the comparable
period of 2005.

Results from discontinued operations were a loss of $0.3 million for the first quarter of 2006
compared to income of $0.1 million in the prior year. With the exception of Forethought Federal
Savings Bank ( FFSB ), we completed the divestiture of Forethought Financial Services in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2004, as further described in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements. The operations of FFSB are presented as discontinued operations within our Condensed
Consolidated Statements of Income for all periods presented herein. The sale of FFSB was completed
on January 3, 2006. We recognized an after tax loss on this transaction of $0.6 million in the
first quarter of fiscal 2006.

Operating Company Results of Operations 

Health Care 

Health Care Sales 

Health Care sales revenues decreased $0.6 million, or 0.3 percent, in the first quarter of 2006
compared to the first quarter of 2005. The North America Sales, Service and Marketing ( NASSM )
segment experienced a decrease of approximately $7.0 million as a result of both lower volume and
price. This decrease was offset by a $6.1 million increase in revenues from the International
segment, net of an unfavorable foreign exchange impact of $3.5 million.

Sales of the relatively new VersaCare    and CareAssist    bed platforms continue to show
strength, with volume increases of $10.8 million compared to prior year. This volume favorability
was more than offset by lower Advanta    volumes related to its discontinuance and lower
workflow and architectural product revenues. The effects of lower volumes experienced in the North
American segment were compounded by the effects of lower pricing of $2.1 million, primarily in our
bed frame product lines.

Gross profit for Health Care sales decreased $4.9 million, or 5.5 percent in the three-month period
ended December 31, 2005, compared to the corresponding prior year period despite relatively flat
revenues in the current period. As a percentage of sales, gross profit was 42.8 percent in the
three-month period of 2006 compared to 45.1 percent in the first quarter of 2005. Current year
margin rates were negatively impacted by lower volumes, decreased pricing and unfavorable product
mix within the North American segment. Also negatively impacting margins within North America were
higher warranty and product-related expenses of approximately $1.2 million. Prior year margin
rates were negatively impacted by $2.5 million of new product transition costs, partially offset by
a favorable pension adjustment in Europe of $1.6 million. International margin rates, as a
percentage of sales, improved 4.4 percent from the prior year in the three-month period of fiscal
2006, but could only provide a partial offset to the pressure in the North American

30

Table of Contents   

segment. The
higher International margin rates are the result of sales mix by geographic region and early
benefits of the restructuring efforts currently underway.

Health Care Rental 

Health Care rental revenues decreased $3.2 million for the three-month period ended December 31,
2005 compared to the same prior year period. International revenues increased slightly, despite
the negative impact of foreign exchange rates of approximately $0.8 million for the three-month
period. North American revenues declined $1.6 million for the three-month period, partially due to
lower volumes and continued weak pricing, but also to the effects of an additional allowance for
uncollectible accounts of $0.8 million. Also contributing to the overall lower rental revenues was
a $2.0 million decline in Home Care, primarily the result of lower revenues on The Vest   ,
which were down from the prior year s quarter due to a reduction in referral volumes and the
continued effect of changes in Medicare payment practices for non-cystic fibrosis and
non-bronchiectasis diagnoses. Our rental business also continues to be somewhat adversely impacted
by billing, inventory tracking and operational reporting issues related to the final phase of our
Enterprise Resource Planning System.

Health Care rental gross profit decreased $1.8 million in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the
prior year period. This decline is attributable to lower volumes and continued weak pricing as
well as unfavorable field service spending, primarily related to continuing customer fulfillment
issues and, to a lesser degree, stabilization costs associated with the information technology
launch made during the third quarter of fiscal 2005. Lower rental depreciation and field sales
costs of $3.2 million partially offset margin declines. International margins were up over the
prior years, also providing a partial offset. As a percentage of sales, gross profit was 39.1
percent compared to 39.6 percent in the first quarter of 2005. This decrease was the direct result
of the factors outlined above and the general fixed nature of our field service, sales and
distribution costs.

Funeral Services 

Funeral Services products revenues in the first quarter of 2006 increased $6.5 million, or 4.1
percent, from that reported in the prior year comparable period. Overall, burial casket volumes
were slightly lower during the quarter. We believe that a soft death market based on preliminary
death data released by the CDC, along with the continued gradual increase in the overall growth
rate for cremations were the primary drivers of the slightly decreased burial casket volume for the
first quarter. Additionally, we continued to experience an unfavorable mix within product lines of
approximately $2.0 million, resulting primarily from lower sales in higher-end metal and solid
hardwood product lines partially offset by increased sales of lower-end caskets. These decreases
were more than offset by favorable net price realization of $8.8 million, along with increased
revenues of $0.9 million resulting from favorable volume in Options cremations products and higher
external jobber unit sales of $0.7 million.

Funeral Services products gross profit increased $2.7 million, or 3.2 percent, in the first quarter
of 2006 compared to the same period of the prior year. As a
percentage of sales, gross profit was 52.6 percent in the three-month period of 2006, compared to 53.1 percent in the
comparable period of 2005. Lower burial casket volume for the three-month period, as previously
discussed above under revenues, negatively impacted gross profit during the 2006 first quarter when
compared to the same period of 2005. Additionally, gross profit, both dollars and as a percent of

31

Table of Contents   

sales, has been unfavorably impacted in the quarter by a continued overall unfavorable product mix
shift, incremental costs associated with our wood plant consolidation, higher utility costs and
general salary and benefit inflation. The unfavorable product mix was primarily related to the
continued gradual shift in product preference from higher margin metal to slightly lower margin
solid and veneer wood products, as well as generally to lower-end products that have lower margins.
We continue to expand our veneer product line in an effort to capitalize on the increasing
preference for wood products and at the same time increase its margins through volume growth and
manufacturing cost reductions. Offsetting these unfavorable items and driving the
quarter-over-quarter favorability were improved net price realization, higher volumes from Options
cremation products and higher external jobber unit sales.

Gross profit percentages are exclusive of distribution costs of $22.7 million, or approximately
13.7 percent of revenues, in the first quarter of 2006, up from $20.5 million, or 12.9 percent of
revenues, in the prior year period. Overall, the effect of lower volume was not enough to offset
higher distribution costs from salary and benefit inflation, higher fuel costs and the opening of
several new service centers. Distribution costs are included in other operating expenses for all
periods.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

We maintained strong liquidity with cash flows from operations of $54.3 million in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006. As of December 31, 2005 we held $196.1 million of cash, cash equivalents,
and current investments.

Net cash flows from operating activities and selected borrowings have represented our primary
sources of funds for growth of the business, including capital expenditures and acquisitions. Our
financing agreements contain no restrictive provisions or conditions relating to dividend payments,
working capital or additional unsecured indebtedness (except to the extent that a dividend payment
or incurrence of additional unsecured indebtedness would result in a default under our financing
agreements), but there are limitations with respect to secured indebtedness. Our debt agreements
also contain no credit rating triggers. Credit rating changes can, however, impact the cost of
borrowings under our financing agreements.

Operating Activities 

For the three-month period ended December 31, 2005, net cash provided by operating activities
totaled $54.3 million compared to $78.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2004.

32

Table of Contents   

Depreciation and amortization decreased slightly to $27.5 million in the first three months of
fiscal 2006 from $29.6 million in the 2005 comparable period.

Changes in working capital decreased cash from operations for both periods. In the first three
months of fiscal 2006, trade accounts payable decreased $19.4 million from the prior year-end
resulting from normal repayments of traditionally higher fiscal year-end payables. Other
reductions in operating cash flow included the increase in accounts receivable from year-end due to
higher sales volumes at Batesville Casket in the period preceding the quarter-end balance sheet
date versus the year-end date and the increase in inventory levels at Hill-Rom from year-end.
Partially offsetting these declines in cash from operations was an increase in accrued expenses
driven by increases in income taxes payable and accrued compensation. In the first quarter of
2005, trade accounts payable declined from the September 2004 year-end as a result of normal
repayments of traditionally higher fiscal year-end payables. Other reductions in operating cash
flow resulted from the increase in consolidated deferred income taxes and the increase in accounts
receivables resulting from higher sales in December 2004. Partially offsetting these declines in
cash from operations was the improved management, and corresponding reduction, of inventory levels
from the fiscal 2004 year-end.

Investing Activities 

Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended December 31, 2005 totaled
$32.8 million compared to net cash used of $68.4 million for the three months ended December 31,
2004. Capital expenditures decreased to $17.2 million from $29.9 million in the prior year period.
Capital expenditures decreased to $14.1 million from $28.4 million within Hill-Rom for the first
three months of 2006 and 2005, respectively, due to the timing of rental fleet additions that
despite lower spending to-date are anticipated to approximate fiscal 2005 levels. Batesville
Casket s capital expenditures increased to $3.1 million from $1.5 million over the same periods.
Fiscal year 2006 capital expenditures are expected to approximate $127 million.

The first three months of investment activity in fiscal 2006 included $27.2 million of purchases
and capital calls and $83.2 million provided from sales and maturities. We invest a portion of our
excess cash from operations into highly liquid auction rate municipal bonds. These liquid, current
investments accounted for $26.0 million of the purchases and $73.0 million of the sales for the
first three months of fiscal 2006, as they were utilized as a treasury management strategy to earn
better rates of return on available cash. In the first three months of fiscal 2005, current
investment purchases were $53.4 million with sales of $24.2 million.

On October 17, 2003, we announced that we had completed our acquisition of ARI, a manufacturer and
distributor of non-invasive airway clearance products and systems. The purchase price was $105.2
million. Based on net revenues achieved in fiscal 2004, an additional purchase price of $8.2
million was paid in the first quarter of 2005. In the first quarter of 2006, the final deferred
acquisition payment of $5.7 million was made. All purchase price obligations relative to ARI have
now been completed.

On January 30, 2004, we acquired Mediq, a company in the medical equipment outsourcing and asset
management business. The purchase price for Mediq was approximately $328.9 million plus an
additional $5.9 million of acquisition costs incurred in relation to the transaction. This
purchase price included $23.0 million deposited in an escrow account, of which $20.0 million
remained at December 31, 2005, related to potential adjustments resulting primarily from the funded
status of Mediq s defined benefit pension plan as of the end of fiscal 2005, along with the
occurrence of any issues associated with seller representations, warranties and other matters.
Final resolution of the remaining amount in escrow is expected in fiscal 2006. Our current
estimate is that any adjustment related to Mediq s pension plan will be favorable to us. The
purchase was initially funded from cash on hand and from our revolving Credit Facilities, but was
later financed on a permanent basis through the issuance of senior notes in June 2004.

33

Table of Contents   

Financing Activities 

Net cash used in financing activities totaled $11.5 million for the three months ended December 31,
2005 compared to $11.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2004.

Cash dividends paid decreased to $17.4 million in the first quarter of 2006, compared to $17.5
million in the prior year comparable period due to the decline in shares outstanding. Quarterly
cash dividends per share were $0.2825 in 2006 and $0.28 in 2005.

Our debt-to-capital ratio was 26.2 percent at December 31, 2005 compared to 23.2 percent at
December 31, 2004. This increase was primarily due to the reduction in total capital resulting
from the litigation charge recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 related to the
Spartanburg litigation settlement discussed above.

Other Liquidity Matters 

As of December 31, 2005, we have a $400.0 million five-year senior revolving credit facility with a
syndicate of banks led by Bank of America, N.A. and Citigroup North America, Inc. The term of the
five-year facility expires on June 1, 2009. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at
variable rates, as defined therein. The availability of borrowings under the five-year facility is
subject to our ability at the time of borrowing to meet certain specified conditions. These
conditions include, without limitation, a maximum debt to capital ratio of 55 percent. The
proceeds of the five-year facility shall be used, as needed: (i) for working capital, capital
expenditures, and other lawful corporate purposes; and (ii) to finance acquisitions.

As of December 31, 2005, we: (i) had $14.7 million of outstanding, undrawn letters of credit under
the five-year facility, (ii) were in compliance with all conditions set forth under the facility
and (iii) had complete access to the remaining $385.3 million of borrowing capacity available under
that facility.

We have trade finance credit lines totaling $16.0 million that have no commitment fees or
compensating balance requirements and are renewed annually. As of December 31, 2005, we had $6.7
million outstanding under this credit line as reflected in Short-term borrowings on the Condensed
Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had $13.1 million of
outstanding, undrawn letters of credit under an uncommitted credit line of $20.0 million that has
no commitment fees, compensating balance requirements or fixed expiration dates.

On July 14, 2003, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission on Form S-3 for the potential sale of up to $1 billion in debt and/or equity
securities. This registration statement has been declared effective and should provide us with
significant flexibility with respect to our access to the public markets. There can be no
assurance that additional financing under the universal shelf registration statement or elsewhere
will be available at terms acceptable to us. On June 7, 2004, we issued $250.0 million of senior
notes from this universal shelf registration statement, leaving $750.0 million of available
capacity under the universal registration statement.

In fiscal year 2005, we recorded a pre-tax litigation charge of $358.6 million ($226.1 million
net-of-tax). The charge is associated with the definitive agreement to settle for $337.5 million
($212.8 million net-of-tax) the Spartanburg antitrust class action litigation lawsuit. The charge
also includes certain legal and other costs related to the settlement. The settlement is subject
to final court approval of the settlement agreement after a fairness hearing scheduled for June 12,
2006. An amount of $50 million is to be paid to an escrow fund pending final court approval. The
remainder of the settlement amount will be payable upon final approval of the settlement agreement,
which is currently expected to occur in the third quarter of our fiscal year. The funding of the
settlement is currently being reviewed but could include a combination of cash on hand, short term
borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and issuance of securities under our shelf
registration statement. After funding the settlement, we will continue to have a solid financial
position with continued strong operating cash flows, and remaining availability under our
previously discussed revolving credit facility and shelf registration statement to fund the
execution of our strategic initiatives.

34

Table of Contents   

We intend to continue to pursue selective acquisition candidates in certain areas of our business,
but the timing, size or success of any acquisition effort and the related potential capital
commitments cannot be predicted. We expect to fund future acquisitions primarily with cash on
hand, cash flow from operations and borrowings, including the unborrowed portion of the five-year
credit facility, but we may also issue additional debt and/or equity in connection with
acquisitions.

During the first quarter of 2006 we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the open
market. As of December 31, 2005, we had Board of Directors  approval to repurchase 1,578,400
shares of our common stock. However, as a result of the anticipated Spartanburg litigation
settlement discussed above, and our desire to maintain flexibility with respect to the overall
financing of the settlement, management, in consultation with the Board of Directors, has
determined not to repurchase any shares under the standing authorization, other than those made in
connection with employee payroll tax withholding for restricted and deferred stock distributions,
for the balance of fiscal 2006. Repurchased shares are used for general business purposes.

We believe that cash on hand and generated from operations and amounts available under our
five-year credit facility along with amounts available from the capital markets, will be sufficient
to fund operations, working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements and financing
obligations. However, if a class is certified in any of the purported class action antitrust
lawsuits filed against us, as described in Note 13 of the Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements, and the plaintiffs prevail at trial, potential damages awarded the plaintiffs could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.

Other Actions 

2005 Actions 

During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2005, we announced several changes intended to simplify both
the corporate and Hill-Rom organizational structures and to support Hill-Rom s strategy to focus on
its core hospital bed frames, therapy support surfaces and services businesses, while remaining
flexible for future opportunities. As part of this change, Hill-Rom established two commercial
divisions, one focusing on North America and one focusing internationally, each including hospital
bed frames, therapy support surfaces and services businesses with supporting sales, marketing and
field service organizations. Hill-Rom also combined sourcing, manufacturing, and product
development under one new function to support these two commercial divisions. Home care products
and services and surgical accessories are provided through a separate division. At the same time,
all Hillenbrand corporate functions, including human resources, finance, strategy, legal and
information technology, were consolidated with those of Hill-Rom.

In building on these announced changes and to further capitalize on progress we made with the works
council at our Pluvigner, France facility with respect to voluntary departures, we took additional
restructuring actions, in the United States and Europe during the fourth quarter of 2005. These
actions included the elimination of salaried and hourly positions in the United States and Europe,
the outsourcing of various products and sub-assembly parts, the impairment of certain assets no
longer considered necessary to the execution of our strategy and the termination of certain
contractual obligations. These actions resulted in a fourth quarter fiscal 2005 charge of
approximately $30.8 million, including cash charges related to severance and benefits costs ($24.0
million) and contract termination costs ($0.8 million). The reduction in employees participating
in our Supplemental Executive Retirement plan related to this action necessitated a curtailment
charge of approximately $1.2 million. Non-cash charges of $4.8 million were incurred related to
the asset impairments previously mentioned.

Fiscal 2006 activity for the above described actions, whose additional provisions were
predominantly related to the continuation of the voluntary severance program at our French
manufacturing facility, was as follows:

 35

Table of Contents   

In addition to the costs of these actions incurred to date, additional costs related directly
to the actions are expected to be incurred over the next twelve to fifteen months, most notably in
Europe. These additional costs could range up to $6 million as the voluntary severance program at
our French manufacturing facility continues to progress.

As of December 31, 2005, approximately $17.4 million remained in the reserve related to these
actions. Upon completion, we expect to have eliminated up to 600 positions on a worldwide basis,
of which 356 positions had been eliminated at December 31, 2005.

Also in the fourth quarter of 2005, Batesville Casket recorded a special charge of approximately
$0.8 million for severance and benefit-related costs resulting from a right-sizing of the
operation. All charges associated with this action will be paid in cash and are expected to be
incurred over the next nine months. At December 31, 2005, approximately $0.5 million remained in
the reserve.

In the third fiscal quarter of 2005, we announced plans to close Batesville Casket s Nashua, New
Hampshire plant and consolidate Batesville s solid wood casket production into its Batesville,
Mississippi plant ( Panola ). The consolidation of the two plants is expected to result in a total
pre-tax charge of approximately $4.5 million, that should be realized through the estimated
completion of the consolidation in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. Cash components of these
charges include approximately $2.3 million in employee-related costs, including severance, pension
and other termination benefits, and approximately $1.6 million in costs related to the transfer of
equipment, training of employees and other associated costs. The remaining $0.6 million consists
of non-cash charges resulting from the accelerated depreciation of equipment and amortization of
software. Approximately $1.8 million of this charge was incurred in the third fiscal quarter of
2005, of which $1.5 million of severance and benefit costs was recorded as a special charge. At
December 31, 2005, approximately $0.7 million remained in the reserve.

Additionally, in May 2005 we announced the retirement of Frederick Rockwood, former Chief Executive
Officer. We incurred a charge of approximately $2.4 million related to future payments and other
compensation related items under the terms of Mr. Rockwood s retirement agreement. Approximately
$1.9 million remained in the reserve at December 31, 2005, of which $1.1 million was paid in
January 2006. The remaining $0.8 million relates primarily to health care and other benefits that
will be paid through 2013.

2004 Actions 

During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2004, we announced a restructuring intended to better align
Hill-Rom s financial and personnel resources to fully support its growth initiatives, decrease
overall costs, and improve performance in Europe. The plan included the expected elimination of
approximately 130 salaried positions in the U.S. and approximately 100 positions in Europe and
resulted in a fourth quarter charge of approximately $7.3 million associated with severance and
benefit-related costs. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $0.3 million remained in the
reserve, related to the payout of terminated positions. All remaining obligations associated with
this action will be settled in cash.

 36

Table of Contents   

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We have not used any off-balance sheet arrangements, other than routine operating leases.

Critical Accounting Policies 

Our accounting policies require management to make significant estimates and assumptions using
information available at the time the estimates are made. Such estimates and assumptions
significantly affect various reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. If
future experience differs materially from these estimates and assumptions, our results of
operations and financial condition could be affected. A detailed description of our accounting
policies is included in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements and the Critical
Accounting Policies Section of Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2005.

There has been one material change in accounting policy from those outlined in our Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, as outlined below:

Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment 

Prior to fiscal year 2006, we applied the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion
No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  in accounting for stock-based compensation. As
a result, no compensation expense was recognized for stock options granted with exercise prices
equivalent to the fair market value of stock on date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized
on other forms of stock-based compensation, including stock and performance-based awards and units.
Effective October 1, 2005, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.
123(R),  Share Based Payment,  using the modified prospective application method. Under this
method, as of October 1, 2005, we will apply the provisions of this Statement to new and modified
awards, as well as to the nonvested portion of awards granted before the required effective date
and outstanding at such time. The adoption of this pronouncement will have no effect on
compensation cost recorded in fiscal year 2005 related to stock options which will continue, to be
disclosed only on a pro forma basis in Note 1 of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Results for prior years have not been restated.

Stock option expense, on an after-tax basis, for the first quarter of 2006 totaled $0.2 million.
We estimate after-tax expense for issued stock options will be approximately $0.9 million for the
remainder of fiscal 2006, based on current forfeiture rate assumptions.

An additional requirement of SFAS No. 123(R) is that estimated forfeitures be considered in
determining compensation expense. As previously permitted, we recorded forfeitures when they
occurred. Primarily due to our decision to accelerate the vesting of underwater stock options in
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the effect of this accounting change on existing nonvested stock
compensation was negligible.

Since December 2002, the Company has issued its annual grant of stock-based compensation in the
first quarter of its fiscal year. During the current quarter, the Company granted a similar split
of stock options and restricted stock units as in these preceding years. See Note 10 to the
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

 37

Table of Contents   

Accounting Standards 

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations   an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143  ( FIN 47 ). FIN 47 provides
guidance relating to the identification of and financial reporting for legal obligations to perform
an asset retirement activity. FIN 47 clarifies a conditional asset retirement obligation, as used
in SFAS 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,  as a legal obligation to perform an
asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a
future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. Accordingly, an entity is
required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation
if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The fair value of a liability for
the conditional asset retirement obligation should be recognized when incurred, generally upon
acquisition, construction or development and/or through the normal operation of the asset.
Uncertainty about the timing and/or method of settlement of the conditional asset retirement
obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information
exists. The provisions of FIN 47 are required to be applied no later than the end of fiscal years
ending after December 15, 2005. As such, we are required to adopt FIN 47 by September 30, 2006.
We are currently evaluating the effect of this Interpretation on our consolidated financial
statements and results of operations.

38

Table of Contents   

Forward-Looking Statements and Factors That May Affect Future Results 

Certain statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements within
the meanings of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding our future plans,
objectives, beliefs, expectations, representations and projections. We have tried, whenever
possible, to identify these forward-looking statements by using words such as  intend, 
 anticipate,   believe,   plan,   encourage,   expect,   may,   goal,   become,   pursue, 
 estimate,   strategy,   will,   projection,   forecast,   continue,   accelerate,   promise, 
 increase,  or the negative of those terms or other variations of them or by comparable
terminology. The absence of such terms, however, does not mean that the statement is not
forward-looking.

We caution readers that any such forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that we
believe are reasonable, but are subject to a wide range of risks. It is important to note that
forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could
differ materially from those set forth in any forward-looking statements. There are a number of
factors   many of which are beyond our control   that could cause actual conditions, events or
results to differ significantly from those described in the forward-looking statements. For
example:

Failure by us or our suppliers to comply with the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) regulations and similar foreign regulations
applicable to the products we manufacture or distribute could
expose us to enforcement actions or other adverse consequences. 

Capital equipment sales and rental revenues may be adversely
affected by Medicare and state government Medicaid funding cuts
that could affect customers in every segment of our health care
business. 

We could be subject to substantial fines and possible exclusion
from participation in federal health care programs if we fail to
comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business. 

Continued declines and fluctuations in mortality rates and
increased cremations may adversely affect, as they have in recent
years, the volume of Batesville Casket s sales of burial caskets. 

Future financial performance will depend in part on the successful
introduction of new products into the marketplace on a
cost-effective basis. The financial success of new products could
be adversely impacted by competitors  products, customer
acceptance, difficulties in product development and manufacturing,
warranty claims, certain regulatory approvals and other factors.
The introduction of new products may also cause customers to defer
purchases of existing products, which could have an adverse effect
on sales. 

Our health care and funeral services businesses are significantly
dependent on several major contracts with large national providers
and group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Our relationships
with these customers and organizations pose several risks. 

Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials or
finished goods used in our products could adversely affect
profitability or revenues. In particular, our results of
operations continue to be adversely affected by high prices for
steel, red metals, solid wood, plastic and fuel. 

We may not be successful in achieving expected operating
efficiencies and operating cost reductions, and may experience
business disruptions, associated with announced restructuring,
realignment and cost reduction activities, including the
restructuring activities announced in fiscal 2005 and those of the
prior year. 

During the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we implemented the final
phase of our Enterprise Resource Planning, or ERP, system with
respect to Hill-Rom s domestic rental business. Due to
complexities and business process changes associated with this
implementation, we made 

39

Table of Contents   

unplanned expenditures and have
encountered a number of issues related to the start-up of the
system, including improper billings to customers, customer
disruptions and the loss of some business. In addition, improper
billings are causing delays in collections of rental receivables
and could further increase the level of uncollectible amounts from
our historic trends. 

We continue to incur significant legal costs in the defense of
antitrust litigation matters involving both Hill-Rom and
Batesville Casket and expect these increased costs to continue for
the foreseeable future. Moreover, if class certification is
granted in any of these antitrust matters and the plaintiffs
prevail at trial, our results of operations, financial position
and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. 

Product liability or other liability claims could expose us to
adverse judgments or could affect the sales of our products. 

We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims and lawsuits
relating to our operations, including environmental, antitrust,
patent infringement, business practices, commercial transactions,
and other matters. 

Our funeral services business is facing increasing competition
from a number of non-traditional sources, including sales of
competitors  caskets through internet casket retailers and large
retail discount stores, and caskets manufactured abroad and
imported into North America. 

We may not be able to grow if we are unable to successfully
acquire and integrate other companies. 

As a result of our recent consolidation of management functions at
Hillenbrand corporate and Hill-Rom and other realignment
initiatives, the potential risks to our business of our inability
to retain key personnel may be magnified. 

Volatility in our investment portfolio or collection risk
associated with our notes receivable portfolio, including amounts
due in relation to the divestiture of Forethought Financial
Services, could negatively impact earnings. 

A substantial portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could
face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. 

For a more in depth discussion of these and other factors that could cause actual results to differ
from those contained in forward-looking statements, see the discussions under the heading  Risk
Factors  in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005 filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements. Readers should also refer to the various disclosures made by us in our
periodic reports on Form 8-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

40

Table of Contents   

Item 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
ABOUT MARKET RISKS 

Our financial instruments are exposed to interest rate risk. During the first quarter of 2006 and
throughout fiscal 2005, we had two interest rate swap agreements outstanding that converted our
fixed interest rate expense to a floating basis. The notional amount of the interest rate swaps
was $200 million at December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005. The gains or losses arising from the
interest rate swap contracts offset gains or losses on the underlying assets or liabilities and are
recognized as offsetting adjustments to the carrying amounts. Our full exposure to floating rate
risk is reduced due to the fact that we had cash, cash equivalents, and current investments of
$196.1 million and $167.8 million on hand at December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005,
respectively. These holdings are exposed to floating rates as well, and therefore reduce our total
exposure to movements in rates. As of December 31, 2005, the interest rate swap contracts
reflected a cumulative loss of $3.2 million, compared to a cumulative loss of $1.3 million at
September 30, 2005.

Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Our management, with the participation of our Interim President and Chief Executive Officer and our
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (the  Certifying Officers ), has evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange
Act )) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation, the
Certifying Officers concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the
end of the period covered by this report for the information required to be disclosed in the
reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act to be recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms and for such information to be
accumulated and communicated to management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

During the quarter ended December 31, 2005, and as part of our organizational realignment and
streamlining, we combined the finance functions, and many other functional areas as well, of
Hill-Rom and Corporate. The integration of these functions resulted in the consolidation of
numerous controls within the entities, as well as a significant change in the personnel responsible
for executing the controls. We expect this combination to have
a beneficial affect on the
Company s internal control over financial reporting in the long-term. In addition, the implementation of the final phase of our Enterprise Resource
Planning system with respect to the domestic rental business of Hill-Rom in the third quarter of
fiscal 2005 is continuing to have an effect on our internal control structure. This final phase,
which went live effective May 9, 2005, consisted of the order management system used to process and
accumulate financial data principally supporting rental revenues and receivables and various
accrual accounts specific to our rental business. The system is also critical to the operational
management of the rental business, including reporting utilized directly by our customers in the
management of their business operations.

As previously disclosed, as a result of the significant complexities and inherent business process
changes associated with this implementation, including integration of the order management
activities related to the acquisitions of Mediq and ARI, we have encountered numerous issues
related to the start-up and operation of this system. These issues have manifested themselves in
the following key areas:

Improper billings to customers, including duplicate billings 

Order fulfillment and rental asset inventory accuracy and traceability 

Reporting of customer and management operational information 

Customer disruption and the loss of some business

41

Table of Contents   

As a result of the implications associated with these issues and since certain controls within the
system are still not fully functioning to our desired specifications, management continues to take
additional actions to ensure the financial statements and related financial information presented
in this Form 10-Q state fairly, in all material respects, the Company s financial condition and
results of operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These actions
include, but were not limited to, the following:

The establishment of dedicated, multi-functional teams to address functional issues
within the system and to redesign and train personnel on new business processes to
effectively run the business with this new system 

The performance of incremental substantive procedures, including analytical assessments,
to validate the accuracy of key financial balances and amounts to ensure their accuracy 

The continued development of reporting mechanisms to evaluate the integrity of data
contained within the system and to correct such data if it is found to be in error 

The continued enhancement of the system to add edits and other checks to reduce the
likelihood of data input errors that would ultimately lead to improper billings. This
includes the roll-out of hand-held, wireless devices capable of immediately updating system
records as to the utilization and location of rental equipment 

Management will continue to monitor internal control over financial reporting with respect to this
recent system implementation, and in all other areas, and will modify or implement, if necessary,
any additional controls and procedures that may be required to ensure the continued integrity of
the Company s financial statements. We continue to devote additional resources to the
stabilization of our rental business system and are now beginning to see the results of this
effort. While we are not yet fully satisfied with the operation of this system, we are pleased
with the progress achieved to-date. We believe many of the system-related issues have been
addressed and we expect our attention to now shift to areas to increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of operating this new system. This includes continued user training, system
enhancements, an increased focus on equipment management and the leveraging of the benefits of
handheld devices deployed to increase the efficiency and accuracy of delivery, pick-up and other
equipment transactions. We will continue to operate a number of manual controls independent of the
new system until such time that we can effectively rely on the internal controls inherent within
the system, thus eliminating many of the temporary manual controls that we have put in place. We
will continue to provide updates on the status of our efforts to bring our rental business system
on-line until such time as we are fully satisfied with its operation from a compliance, regulatory,
control and accuracy standpoint.

42

Table of Contents   

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION  

Item 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

For information regarding legal proceedings involving the Company, see Note 13 to the Condensed
Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report.

Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

1 
       
     All shares purchased in the three months ended December 31, 2005 were in connection with
employee payroll tax withholding for restricted and deferred stock distributions. 

2 
       
     In January 2000, the Board of Directors approved the repurchase of a total of 24,289,067
shares of common stock. There were no purchases under this approval in the three months ended
December 31, 2005. The approval has no expiration, and there were no terminations or
expirations of plans in the current quarter. However, as a result of the anticipated
Spartanburg litigation settlement discussed earlier in this Form 10-Q, and our desire to
maintain flexibility with respect to the overall financing of the settlement, management, in
consultation with the Board of Directors, has determined not to repurchase any shares under
the standing authorization, other than those made in connection with employee payroll tax
withholding for restricted and deferred stock distributions, for the balance of fiscal 2006. 

43

Table of Contents   

Item 6. EXHIBITS 

A. Exhibits

Exhibit 10.1

Employment Agreement between Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and John H. Dickey
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with Form 8-K dated January 31, 2006) 

Exhibit 10.2

Settlement Agreement between Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Spartanburg
Regional Health Services District, Inc. d/b/a Spartanburg Regional Healthcare System,
Spartanburg Hospital for Restorative Care, and B.J. Workman Memorial Hospital, on
behalf of themselves and others similarly situated (Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 filed with Form 8-K dated February 3, 2006) 

Exhibit 10.3

Employment Agreement between Hillenbrand
Industries, Inc. and Peter H. Soderberg (Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with  Form 8-K 
dated February 7, 2006) 

Exhibit 10.4

Change in Control Agreement between Hillenbrand
Industries, Inc. and Peter H. Soderberg (Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with  Form 8-K 
dated February 7, 2006) 

Exhibit 31.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

Exhibit 31.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

Exhibit 32.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

Exhibit 32.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

44

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC.  

DATE:  February 9, 2006

BY: 

       /S/ Gregory N. Miller 

Gregory N. Miller 

Senior Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

DATE:  February 9, 2006

BY:
 
     /S/ Richard G. Keller 

Richard G. Keller 

Vice President, Controller 
and Chief Accounting Officer 

45

<EX-31.1>
 2
 c02293exv31w1.txt
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

EXHIBIT 31.1
                                 CERTIFICATIONS

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

I, Rolf A. Classon, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Hillenbrand Industries,
Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the periods covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision,
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.

Date: February 9, 2006

/S/  Rolf A. Classon
- --------------------------------------
Rolf A. Classon
Interim President and Chief Executive Officer

1

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 c02293exv31w2.txt
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

EXHIBIT 31.2

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

I, Gregory N. Miller, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Hillenbrand Industries,
Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the periods covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision,
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.

Date:  February 9, 2006

/S/  Gregory N. Miller
- -------------------------------------
Gregory N. Miller
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

1

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 c02293exv32w1.txt
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

EXHIBIT 32.1

 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS
       ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. (the
"Company") on Form 10-Q for the period ending December 31, 2005 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I,
Rolf A. Classon, Interim President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

     (1)  The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or
          15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

     (2)  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
          material respects, the financial condition and results of operations
          of the Company.

/S/ Rolf A. Classon
- -------------------
Rolf A. Classon
Interim President and Chief Executive Officer
February 9, 2006

A SIGNED ORIGINAL OF THIS WRITTEN STATEMENT REQUIRED BY SECTION 906 HAS BEEN
PROVIDED TO HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC. AND WILL BE RETAINED BY HILLENBRAND
INDUSTRIES, INC. AND FURNISHED TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OR ITS
STAFF UPON REQUEST.

1

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 c02293exv32w2.txt
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

EXHIBIT 32.2

 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
     AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. (the
"Company") on Form 10-Q for the period ending December 31, 2005 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I,
Gregory N. Miller, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

     (1)  The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or
          15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

     (2)  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
          material respects, the financial condition and results of operations
          of the Company.

/S/ Gregory N. Miller
- ---------------------
Gregory N. Miller
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
February 9, 2006

A SIGNED ORIGINAL OF THIS WRITTEN STATEMENT REQUIRED BY SECTION 906 HAS BEEN
PROVIDED TO HILLENBRAND INDUSTRIES, INC. AND WILL BE RETAINED BY HILLENBRAND
INDUSTRIES, INC. AND FURNISHED TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OR ITS
STAFF UPON REQUEST.

1

</EX-32.2>

