<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060313_10-Q_edgar_data_892025_0000950133-06-001200_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>557659</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>211255</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2405</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>234133</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>29</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950133-06-001200.hdr.sgml : 20060313
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060313165756
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950133-06-001200
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060313
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060313

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MARTEK BIOSCIENCES CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000892025
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				521399362
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-22354
		FILM NUMBER:		06682674

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6480 DOBBIN RD
		CITY:			COLUMBIA
		STATE:			MD
		ZIP:			21045
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4107400081

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6480 DOBBIN RD
		CITY:			COLUMBIA
		STATE:			MD
		ZIP:			21045

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Ich7Pi3K6gQvIwPBXgUqxohovtePl0qZ6wtVzlRxrfRhp5GOy/rD6qPn15MCgBzp
 SIUWXipHzfzSIErGVbBsMg==

 0000950133-06-001200.txt : 20060313

10-Q
 1
 w18426e10vq.htm
 FORM 10-Q

e10vq 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

For the Quarterly Period Ended January 31, 2006 

or 

For the Transition Period From                        to                       

COMMISSION
FILE NUMBER 0-22354   

MARTEK BIOSCIENCES CORPORATION 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware  
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

52-1399362  
(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number) 

6480 Dobbin Road, Columbia, Maryland 21045  
(Address of principal executive offices)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  (410) 740-0081 

None 
(Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.     Yes     No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large
accelerated filer    
Accelerated filer    
Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes    No

The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of March 6, 2006 was 32,065,617.

MARTEK BIOSCIENCES CORPORATION 
FORM 10-Q

For The Quarterly Period Ended January 31, 2006

INDEX

PART I

FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1.

Financial Statements

1 

Item 2.

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

14 

Item 3.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

22 

Item 4.

Controls and Procedures

22 

PART II

OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1.

Legal Proceedings

23 

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

25 

Item 2.

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

34 

Item 3.

Defaults Upon Senior Securities

34 

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

34 

Item 5.

Other Information

34 

Item 6.

Exhibits

34 

Signatures

35 

PART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1. Financial Statements. 

MARTEK BIOSCIENCES CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See accompanying notes. 

1

MARTEK BIOSCIENCES CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

See accompanying notes. 

2

MARTEK BIOSCIENCES CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY

See accompanying notes. 

3

MARTEK BIOSCIENCES CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

See accompanying notes. 

4

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 

1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Basis of Presentation   The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Martek
Biosciences Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (the  Company  or  Martek ) have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for
interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation
S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States for complete financial statements. In the
opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered
necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Operating results for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year
ending October 31, 2006. For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements
and footnotes thereto included in Martek Biosciences Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for
the year ended October 31, 2005.

Consolidation   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Martek and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries, Martek Biosciences Boulder Corporation and Martek Biosciences Kingstree
Corporation, after elimination of all significant intercompany balances and transactions. In the
opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered
necessary for a fair presentation have been included.

Use of Estimates   The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States ( U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported
in the Company s consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, the
Company evaluates its estimates and judgments, which are based on historical and anticipated
results and trends and on various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable
under the circumstances. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of
uncertainty and, as such, actual results may differ from the Company s estimates.

Segment Information   The Company currently operates in one business segment, the development and
commercialization of novel products from microalgae, fungi and other microbes. The Company is
managed and operated as one business. The entire business is comprehensively managed by a single
management team that reports to the Chief Executive Officer. The Company does not operate any
material separate lines of business or separate business entities with respect to its products or
product candidates. Accordingly, the Company does not accumulate discrete financial information
with respect to separate product areas and does not have separately reportable segments as defined
by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. 

Revenue Recognition   The Company derives revenue principally from two sources: product sales and
contract manufacturing. The Company recognizes product sales revenue when persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, the fee is fixed or determinable, collectibility is probable and the product is
shipped thereby transferring title and risk of loss. Typical infant formula license contracts
include an upfront license fee, a prepayment of product sales and established pricing on future
product sales. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force No. 00-21 ( EITF No. 00-21 ),  Revenue
Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables,  the consideration from these contracts is allocated based
on the relative fair values of the separate elements. Revenue is recognized on product sales when
goods are shipped and all other conditions for revenue recognition are met. Cash received as a
prepayment on future product purchases is deferred and recognized as revenue when product is
shipped. Revenue from product licenses is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the
term of the agreement. Royalty income is recorded when earned, based on information provided by
the Company s licensees. Royalty income was approximately $800,000 and $600,000 in the three
months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and is included in product sales revenue in
the consolidated statements of income.

Contract manufacturing revenue is recognized when goods are shipped to customers and all other
conditions for revenue recognition are met. Cash received that is related to future performance
under such contracts is deferred and recognized as revenue when earned.

Foreign Currency Transactions and Hedging Activities   Foreign currency transactions are translated
into U.S. dollars at prevailing rates. Gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions
are included in current period income or loss as incurred. All material transactions of the Company
are denominated in U.S. dollars with the exception of purchases of arachidonic acid ( ARA ) from
DSM Food Specialties  B.V. ( DSM ) Capua, Italy plant, which are denominated in euros.

The Company has entered into foreign currency forward contracts to reduce its transactional foreign
currency exposures associated with the purchases of ARA from DSM. These forward contracts have
been designated as highly effective cash flow hedges and thus, qualify for hedge accounting under
the provisions of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Acitivties. 
As of January 31, 2006, outstanding forward contracts had notional values aggregating approximately
23.6 million euros (equivalent to $28.6 million at January 31, 2006). The resulting unrealized
gains and losses are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. These contracts
effectively fix our exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro for periods ranging from 30
to 120 days.

5

Research and Development   Research and development costs are charged to operations as incurred and
include internal labor, materials and overhead costs associated with the Company s ongoing research
and development activity, in addition to third-party costs for contracted work as well as ongoing
clinical trials costs.

Other Operating Expenses   Other operating expenses relate primarily to production start-up costs,
including materials, training and other such costs, incurred in connection with the expansion of
the Company s internal manufacturing operations and costs incurred in connection with the
qualification of certain third-party manufacturers. All such costs are expensed as incurred.

Deferred Income Taxes   Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary
differences between the financial reporting bases and the tax bases of assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are also recognized for tax net operating loss carryforwards. These deferred
tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect
when such amounts are expected to reverse or be utilized. The realization of total deferred tax
assets is contingent upon the generation of future taxable income. Valuation allowances are
provided to reduce such deferred tax assets to amounts more likely than not to be ultimately
realized.

Income tax provision or benefit includes U.S. federal, state and local income taxes and is based on
pre-tax income or loss. The interim period provision or benefit for income taxes is based upon the
Company s estimate of its annual effective income tax rate. In determining the estimated annual
effective income tax rate, the Company analyzes various factors, including projections of the
Company s annual earnings and taxing jurisdictions in which the earnings will be generated, the
impact of state and local income taxes and the ability of the Company to use tax credits and net
operating loss carryforwards.

Equity-Based Compensation   Prior to November 1, 2005, the Company accounted for its equity-based
compensation plans under the recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 ), and related interpretations,
as permitted by SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ). Effective
November 1, 2005, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123
(revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123R ), using the modified prospective transition
method. Under the modified prospective transition method, compensation cost recognized in fiscal
2006 includes: (a) compensation cost for all equity-based payments granted prior to but not yet
vested as of November 1, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
original provisions of SFAS 123 and (b) compensation cost for all equity-based payments granted
subsequent to November 1, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS 123R.

Net Income Per Share   Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of
shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed
using the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding, giving effect to stock
options and warrants using the treasury stock method.

Comprehensive Income   Comprehensive income is comprised of net earnings and other comprehensive
income, which includes certain changes in equity that are excluded from net income. The Company
includes unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, if any, as well as
changes in the market value of exchange rate forward contracts in other comprehensive income in the
Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity.

Cash and Cash Equivalents   Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with an
original maturity of three months or less.

Short-Term Investments and Marketable Securities   The Company has classified all short-term
investments and marketable securities as available-for-sale. Unrealized gains and losses on these
securities, if any, are reported as accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate
component of stockholders  equity. Realized gains and losses are included in other income based on
the specific identification method.

The Company periodically evaluates whether any declines in the fair value of investments are other
than temporary. This evaluation consists of a review of several factors, including, but not
limited to: length of time and extent that a security has been in an unrealized loss position; the
existence of an event that would impair the issuer s future earnings potential; the near term
prospects for recovery of the market value of a security; and the intent and ability of the Company
to hold the security until the market value recovers. Declines in value below cost for debt
securities where it is considered probable that all contractual terms of the security will be
satisfied, where the decline is due primarily to changes in interest rates (and not because of
increased credit risk), and where the Company intends and has the ability to hold the investment
for a period of time sufficient to allow a market recovery, are not assumed to be other than
temporary. If management determines that such an impairment exists, the carrying value of the
investment will be reduced to the current fair value of the investment and the Company will
recognize a charge in the consolidated statements of income equal to the amount of the carrying
value reduction.

At
January 31, 2006, the Company s short-term investments
consisted primarily of auction rate debt securities
issued by state and local government-sponsored agencies. The Company s investments in these
securities are recorded at cost which approximates market value due to their variable interest rates
that reset approximately every 30 days. The underlying maturities of these investments range from
20 to 40 years. Despite the long-term nature of their stated contractual maturities, there is a
readily liquid market for these securities and, therefore, these securities have been classified as
short-term.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments   The Company considers the recorded cost of its financial assets
and liabilities, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and
marketable securities, accounts receivable, accounts payable, notes payable and long-term debt, to
approximate the fair value of the respective assets and liabilities at January 31, 2006 and October
31, 2005.

6

Trade Receivables   Trade receivables are reported in the consolidated balance sheets at outstanding
principal less any allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company writes off uncollectible
receivables against the allowance for doubtful accounts when the likelihood of collection is
remote. The Company may extend credit terms up to 50 days and considers receivables past due if not
paid by the due date. The Company performs ongoing
credit evaluations of its customers and extends credit without requiring collateral. The Company
maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is determined based on historical experience,
existing economic conditions and management s expectations of losses. The Company analyzes
historical bad debts, customer concentrations, customer creditworthiness, and current economic
trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. Losses have
historically been within management s expectations.

Inventories   Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and include appropriate elements
of material, labor and indirect costs. Inventories are valued using a weighted average approach
that approximates the first-in, first-out method. The Company analyzes both historical and
projected sales volumes and, when needed, reserves for inventory that is either obsolete, slow
moving or impaired. Abnormal amounts of inventory costs related to, among other things, idle
facilities, freight handling and waste material expenses are recognized as period charges and
expensed as incurred.

Property, Plant and Equipment   Property, plant and equipment, including leasehold improvements, is
stated at cost and depreciated or amortized when placed into service using the straight-line
method, based on useful lives as follows:

Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the
lease term, including renewals when probable. Costs for capital assets not yet available for
commercial use have been capitalized as construction in progress and will be depreciated in
accordance with the above guidelines once placed into service. Assets classified as  held for
future use  are not depreciated until they are placed in or returned to productive service. Costs
for repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   The Company recorded goodwill and purchased intangible assets
in its acquisition of OmegaTech, Inc. ( OmegaTech ) in April 2002 and goodwill in its acquisition
of FermPro Manufacturing, LP ( FermPro ) in September 2003. The goodwill acquired in the OmegaTech
and FermPro acquisitions is subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets  ( SFAS 142 ), and, accordingly, is not being amortized. In accordance with SFAS
142, goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain
circumstances, and written down when impaired. Furthermore, SFAS 142 requires purchased intangible
assets other than goodwill to be amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are
determined to be indefinite. Purchased intangible assets and patents are carried at cost less
accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the
respective assets, generally ten to seventeen years.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets   In accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  ( SFAS 144 ), the Company reviews long-lived assets and certain
identifiable intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and
used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash
flows expected to be generated by the asset. Recoverability measurement and estimating of
undiscounted cash flows is done at the lowest possible level for which there is identifiable
assets. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured
by the amount by which the carrying amount of assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets
to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to
sell.

Reclassification   Certain amounts in the prior period s financial statements have been reclassified
to conform to the current period presentation.

2. DSM SUPPLY AND LICENSE AGREEMENT  

In April 2004, the Company entered into a new agreement with DSM Food Specialties B.V. ( DSM )
extending the existing relationship between the two companies involving the production and supply
of arachidonic acid ( ARA ), one of the Company s nutritional oils that it sells to its infant
formula licensees. Among other things, this agreement provides for the grant to the Company by DSM
of a license related to certain technologies associated with the manufacture of ARA. This grant
involved a license fee totaling $10 million, which is being amortized over the 15-year term of the
agreement using the straight-line method. In February 2006, the Company and DSM entered into an
amendment to the April 2004 agreement ( the Amendment ). The Amendment served to provide certain
clarifying and updating language to the original agreement and to establish the overall economics
associated with DSM s expansion at both its Belvidere, New Jersey and Capua, Italy production
facilities. Martek guaranteed the recovery of certain costs
incurred by DSM in connection with this expansion, up to $40 million, with such amount being
reduced annually through December 31, 2008 (the  Recoupment Period ) based upon ARA purchases by
Martek in excess of specified minimum thresholds. Giving effect to ARA purchases by Martek
subsequent to January 1, 2005, as permitted by the Amendment, as of January 31, 2006, the guarantee
amount has been reduced to approximately $31 million.

7

The guarantee amount payable, if any, at the
end of the Recoupment Period, must be paid by January 31, 2009. The amount paid will be credited against DSM purchases
that become due to DSM pursuant to invoices received after the Recoupment Period. Management
estimates that the fair value of such guarantee is not material. The Amendment also provides that
Martek will pay $3 million to DSM as partial reimbursement for certain capital expenditures
incurred by DSM in connection with the Belvidere expansion. Martek must make such payment within
fifteen days following the date on which DSM notifies Martek that the total output of the Belvidere
facility has reached a specified level of ARA production. It is expected that such payment will be
made by Martek during the second quarter of fiscal 2006.

3. SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES  

The Company has classified all short-term investments and marketable securities as
available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value, based on specific
identification. Unrealized gains and losses on these securities, if any, are reported as
accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate component of stockholders  equity. The
Company s available-for-sale securities consist primarily of taxable municipal auction rate
securities, and totaled $18.7 million and $22.3 million as of January 31, 2006 and October 31,
2005, respectively. There were no unrealized holding gains or losses or realized gains or losses
during the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005.

4. INVENTORIES  

Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):

5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  

Property, plant and equipment consists of the following (in thousands):

Assets held for future use is comprised of certain production assets. During the quarter ended
January 31, 2006, approximately $8 million of production assets were removed from service and are
being held for future use.

8

6. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  

Intangible assets and related accumulated amortization consist of the following (in thousands):

7. NOTES PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT  

In September 2005, the Company entered into a $135 million secured revolving credit facility that
amended and expanded the $100 million credit facility entered into in May 2004. The revolving
credit facility is collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory and all capital stock of the
Company s subsidiaries and expires in September 2010. The weighted average interest rate on
amounts outstanding under the credit facility was approximately 5.8% and 4.1% for the three months
ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and the weighted average commitment fee rate on
unused amounts was approximately 0.2% and 0.3%, respectively. Both the interest and commitment fee
rates are based on LIBOR and the Company s current leverage ratio. Among other things, the credit
facility agreement contains restrictions on future debt, the payment of dividends and the further
encumbrance of assets. In addition, the credit facility requires that the Company comply with
specified financial ratios and tests, including minimum coverage ratios and maximum leverage
ratios. As of January 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with all of these debt covenants and
had outstanding borrowings of $63 million under the revolving credit facility. All borrowings are
due at maturity.

Interest incurred on borrowings has been capitalized to the extent that the borrowings were used to
cover the balance of projects under construction. In the three months ended January 31, 2006 and
2005, the Company incurred interest on borrowings of approximately $1.1 million in each quarter,
and recorded amortization of related debt fees of approximately $40,000 and $100,000, respectively,
of which, in total, $200,000 and $1.0 million was capitalized, respectively.

The carrying amounts of notes payable and long-term debt under the revolving credit facility at
January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005 approximate their fair values based on instruments of similar
terms available to the Company.

8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  

Purchase Commitments   The Company has entered into an agreement to purchase a minimum quantity of
certain material used in the production of Martek s food docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) product from
a third-party manufacturer. The commitment expires on June 30, 2006. As of January 31, 2006, the
Company s remaining obligation was approximately $900,000.

In connection with the Amendment to the April 2004 DSM agreement, the Company committed to a
certain level of ARA purchases related to DSM s calendar 2005 production. As of January 31, 2006,
the Company s remaining obligation was approximately $14.7 million.

The Company has entered into an agreement to purchase from a third-party manufacturer a minimum
quantity of extraction services to be utilized in ARA production. The commitment expires on
December 31, 2007. As of January 31, 2006, the Company s remaining obligation was approximately
$12.1 million.

Scientific Research Collaborations   In December 2003, the Company executed a collaboration agreement
with a Canadian biotechnology company to co-develop DHA products from plants. In addition to
reimbursement of expenses incurred by the co-collaborator, the Company is contingently liable for
milestone payments upon achievement of certain scientific results. As of January 31, 2006, a
milestone payment of up to $2.5 million would be
paid to the Company s co-collaborator in fiscal 2006 if the milestone related to the current phase
of the project is achieved. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the achievement of this milestone
within the required timeframe, the Company has not recorded a
liability associated with this milestone.

9

OmegaTech Contingent Purchase Price   In connection with the Company s purchase of OmegaTech, the
purchase agreement provided for additional stock consideration of up to $40 million, subject to
certain pricing adjustments, if four milestones were met. Two of these milestones relate to
operating results (sales and gross profit margin objectives by October 2003 and October 2004) and
two relate to regulatory and labeling approvals in the U.S. and Europe. In June 2003, the
Commission of the European Community granted approval of the use of the OmegaTech DHA oil in
certain foods in Europe, meeting the conditions of one of the regulatory milestones. Accordingly,
approximately 358,566 shares of Martek common stock, valued at approximately $14.2 million, were
issued during fiscal 2003 upon the achievement of this milestone. The payment of this additional
consideration was recorded as goodwill. As of January 31, 2006, the Company does not believe the
second regulatory milestone has been achieved. In addition, the Company does not believe that
either financial milestone related to sales and gross profit margin for the periods ended October
31, 2004 and 2003 has been achieved. The representative of the former OmegaTech stockholders has
advised us that he believes that the common stock issuable with respect to the second regulatory
milestone as well as the financial milestone related to the period ended October 31, 2003 should be
issued. Martek disagrees with that conclusion. The parties are currently involved in litigation to
resolve this dispute with respect to the second regulatory milestone. The total Martek common
stock that may be issued relating to any remaining milestones is subject to a formula that is based
on the average market price of the Company s stock on the dates that the individual milestones are
determined to have been achieved, up to a maximum of 1.9 million shares. Any contingent
consideration paid related to these milestones would be recorded as goodwill.

Class Action Lawsuits   Since the end of April 2005, several lawsuits have been filed against the
Company and certain of its officers, which have been consolidated and in which plaintiffs are
seeking class action status. The consolidated lawsuit was filed in United States District Court
for the District of Maryland and alleges, among other things, that the defendants, including the
Company, made false and misleading public statements and omissions of material facts concerning the
Company. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses and is defending vigorously against this
action. The Company is unable at this time to predict the outcome of this lawsuit or reasonably
estimate a range of possible loss, if any.

Other   The Company is involved in various other legal actions. Management believes that these
actions, either individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company s results of operations or financial condition.

9. STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY  

Equity-Based Compensation  

Prior to November 1, 2005, the Company
accounted for its equity-based compensation plans under the
recognition and measurement provisions of APB 25, and related interpretations, as permitted by SFAS 123. Effective November 1, 2005, the
Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123R, using the modified prospective transition method. Under the modified
prospective transition method, compensation cost recognized in fiscal 2006 includes: (a)
compensation cost for all equity-based payments granted prior to but not yet vested as of November
1, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of
SFAS 123 and (b) compensation cost for all equity-based payments granted subsequent to November 1,
2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123R.
Results for prior periods have not been restated.

As a result of adopting SFAS 123R on November 1, 2005, the Company s income before income taxes
and net income for the three months ended January 31, 2006 were $1.0 million and $600,000 lower,
respectively, than if the Company had continued to account for share-based compensation under APB
25. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended January 31, 2006 would have
each been $0.19 if the Company had not adopted SFAS 123R, compared to reported basic and diluted
earnings per share of $0.17 each.

The
following table (in thousands, except per share amounts) illustrates the effect on net income and net income per share if the Company
had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 to equity-based compensation for the
three months ended January 31, 2005. The reported and pro forma net income and net income per
share for the three months ended January 31, 2006 are the same because equity-based compensation is
calculated under the provisions of SFAS 123R. The amounts for the three months ended January 31,
2006 are included in the following table only to provide net income and net income per share for a
comparative presentation to the period of the previous year. The pro forma disclosure for the
three months ended January 31, 2005 utilized the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing formula to
estimate the value of the respective options with such value amortized to expense over the options 
vesting periods.

10

In December 2004 and January and May 2005, the Company modified the terms of certain
outstanding and unvested stock options whose exercise prices were greater than Martek s closing
stock price on the modification dates. Total modifications served to immediately vest approximately
1.2 million unvested stock options. The accelerations have enabled the Company to avoid recording
approximately $27 million of compensation cost that would have been required to be recognized under
SFAS 123R.

The Company has utilized the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model for estimating the fair value of
the stock options granted during the three months ended January 31, 2006, as well as for option
grants during all prior periods. As follows are the weighted-average assumptions used in valuing
the stock options granted during the three months ended January 31, 2006, and a discussion of the
Company s methodology for developing each of the assumptions used:

Expected volatility

61.9 
     % 

Risk-free interest rate

4.4 
     % 

Expected life of options

5  
     years 

Expected dividend yield

0 
     % 

Forfeiture rate

2 
     % 

Dividend Yield    The Company has never declared or paid dividends on its common stock and does
not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future.

Expected Volatility    Volatility is a measure of the amount by which a financial variable such as a
share price has fluctuated (historical volatility) or is expected to fluctuate (expected
volatility) during a period. The Company uses the historical volatility over the preceding
five-year period to estimate expected volatility. Since fiscal 2001, the Company s annual
volatility has ranged from 61.9% to 78.9% with an average of 68.2%.

Risk-Free Interest Rate    This is the average U.S. Treasury rate (having a term that most closely
resembles the expected life of the option) for the quarter in which the option was granted.

Expected Life of the Option    This is the period of time that the options granted are expected to
remain outstanding. This estimate is based primarily on historical exercise data. Options granted
during the three months ended January 31, 2006 have a maximum term of ten years.

Forfeiture Rate    This is the estimated percentage of options granted that are expected to be
forfeited or cancelled on an annual basis before becoming fully vested. The Company estimates the
forfeiture rate based on past turnover data with further consideration given to the level of the
employees to whom the options were granted.

As of January 31, 2006, the Company had several equity-based compensation plans, which are
described below. The compensation cost that has been charged against income for those plans for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 was approximately $1.0 million. The total income tax benefit
recognized in the income statement for share-based compensation arrangements was approximately
$400,000. Compensation cost capitalized as part of inventory during the three months ended January
31, 2006 was approximately $200,000. For stock subject to graded vesting, the Company has utilized
the  straight-line  method for allocating compensation cost by period.

11

As of January 31, 2006, the Company had stock options outstanding that were previously granted
under the 1986 Stock Option Plan, the 1994 Directors  Option Plan, the 1997 Stock Option Plan, the
2001 Stock Option Plan, the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, the 2003 New Employee Stock Option Plan and
the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, collectively referred to as the  Option Plans.  With exception of
the 1994 Directors  Option Plan, option awards under the Option Plans are granted at prices as
determined by the Compensation Committee, but shall not be less than the fair market value of the
Company s common stock on the date of grant. Stock options granted include both qualified and
non-qualified options and vest over a period of up to five years and have a maximum term of ten
years from the date of grant. At January 31, 2006, approximately 200,000 shares of common stock
were available for future grants under the Option Plans.

A summary of option activity under the Option Plans as of January 31, 2006, and changes during the
three months then ended are as follows (shares and intrinsic value in thousands):

The weighted average remaining contractual life for all options outstanding under the Option
Plans at January 31, 2006 was 7.0 years. The weighted average remaining contractual life for
exercisable stock options at January 31, 2006 was 7.0 years.

The weighted average fair market value of the options at the date of grant for options granted
during the three months ended January 31, 2006 was $15.70. The total intrinsic value of stock
options exercised during the three months ended January 31, 2006 was $46,000.

As of January 31, 2006, there was $4.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
unvested stock options granted under the Option Plans. The cost is expected to be recognized
through fiscal 2010 with a weighted average recognition period of approximately one year.

Stockholder Rights Plan  

In February 2006, the Company s Board of Directors approved the renewal of its Stockholder Rights
Plan through the adoption of a new Rights Agreement. The new Rights Agreement is effective as of
February 7, 2006, which is the date that Martek s existing Rights Agreement expired. All rights
under the existing Rights Agreement were cancelled upon its expiration.

In connection with the adoption of the new Rights Agreement, preferred stock purchase rights
( Rights ) were granted as a dividend at the rate of one Right for each share of the Company s
common stock held of record at the close of business on February 7, 2006. Each share issued after
February 7, 2006 also is accompanied by a Right. Each Right provides the holder the opportunity to
purchase 1/1000th of a share of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock under certain
circumstances at a price of $150 per share of such preferred stock. All rights expire on February
7, 2016.

At the time of adoption of the Rights Plan, the Rights were neither exercisable nor traded
separately from the common stock. The Rights will be exercisable only if a person or group in the
future becomes the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the common stock or announces a tender or
exchange offer which would result in its ownership of 20% or more of the common stock. Ten days
after a public announcement that a person or group has become the beneficial owner of 20% or more
of the common stock, each holder of a Right, other than the acquiring person, would be entitled to
purchase $300 worth of the common stock of the Company for each Right at the exercise price of $150
per Right, which would effectively enable such Right-holders to purchase the common stock at
one-half of the then-current price.

If the Company is acquired in a merger, or 50% or more of the Company s assets are sold in one or
more related transactions, each Right would entitle the holder thereof to purchase $300 worth of
common stock of the acquiring company at the exercise price of $150 per Right, which would
effectively enable such Right-holders to purchase the acquiring company s common stock at one-half
of the then-current market price.

At any time after a person or group of persons becomes the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the
common stock, the Board of Directors, on behalf of all stockholders, may exchange one share of
common stock for each Right, other than Rights held by the acquiring person.

12

The Board of Directors may authorize the redemption of the Rights, at a redemption price of $.001
per Right, at any time until ten days (as such period may be extended or shortened by the Board)
following the public announcement that a person or group of persons has acquired beneficial
ownership of 20% or more of the outstanding common stock.

The Rights
Agreement provides that at least once every three years  the Board of Directors will review and
evaluate the Rights Agreement in order to consider whether the maintenance of the Rights Agreement
continues to be in the interests of the Company and its stockholders.

10. NET INCOME PER SHARE  

Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding, giving effect to stock options and warrants using the treasury stock method.

The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted net income per share (in
thousands, except per share amounts):

Employee stock options to purchase approximately 2.9 million and 1.4 million shares were
outstanding but were not included in the computation of diluted net income per share for the three
months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, because the effects would have been
antidilutive.

11. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  

Comprehensive income and its components for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 was as
follows (in thousands):

13

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains
forward-looking statements concerning our business and operations, including, among other things,
statements concerning the following: 

expectations regarding future revenue growth, product
introductions, growth in nutritional product sales, margin and productivity improvements
and potential collaborations and acquisitions;  

expectations regarding sales to and by our infant formula licensees;  

expectations regarding marketing of our oils by our infant formula licensees;  

expectations regarding future efficiencies in manufacturing processes and the cost of production of our nutritional oils;  

expectations regarding future purchases of third-party manufactured oils;  

expectations regarding the amount of production capacity and our ability to meet future demands for our nutritional oils;  

expectations regarding the amount of inventory held by us or our customers;  

expectations regarding the effects of excess production capacity;  

expectations regarding future research and development costs;  

expectations regarding additional capital expenditures needed in relation to our fermentation and oil processing activities;  

expectations regarding possibly significant expenses to defend
putative securities class action lawsuits alleging false and material misstatements and
omissions of material facts concerning our business and prospects; and  

expectations regarding our ability to protect our intellectual property.  

Forward-looking statements include those statements containing words such as the following: 

will,   

should,   

could,   

anticipate,   

believe,   

plan,   

estimate,   

expect,   

intend,  and other similar expressions.  

All of these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. They and other
forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q are all made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We wish to caution you that our actual
results may differ significantly from the results we discuss in our forward-looking statements. We
discuss some of the risks that could cause such differences in Item 1A. Risk Factors in this report
on Form 10-Q and in our various other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our
forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this document, and we do not intend to
update these statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after that date. 

GENERAL 

Martek was founded in 1985. We are a leader in the development and commercialization of products
derived from microalgae, and in addition, we develop and manufacture products derived from fungi
and other microbes. Our leading products are nutritional oils used as ingredients in infant formula
and foods and beverages and as ingredients in, and encapsulated for use as, dietary supplements.
Our nutritional oils are comprised of fatty acid components, primarily docosahexaenoic acid,
commonly known as DHA, and arachidonic acid, commonly known as ARA. Research has shown that these
fatty acids may enhance mental and visual development in infants, that they may play a pivotal role
in brain function throughout life, and that they may reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. Low
levels of DHA in adults have been linked to a variety of health risks, including Alzheimer s
disease. Further research is underway to assess the role of supplementation with our DHA on a
variety of health risks. Additional applications of our patented technology based upon microalgae
include our currently marketed fluorescent detection products that can be used by researchers as an
aid in drug discovery and diagnostics.

We have entered into license agreements with 21 infant formula manufacturers, who collectively
represent approximately 70% of the estimated $8.5 to $9.5 billion worldwide wholesale market for
infant formula and nearly 100% of the estimated $3.0 to $3.5 billion U.S. wholesale market for
infant formula, including the wholesale value of Women, Infant   Children program ( WIC ) rebates.
WIC is a federal grant program administered by the states for the benefit of low-income,
nutritionally at-risk women, infants and children. Our licensees include infant formula market
leaders Mead
Johnson Nutritionals, Nestle, Abbott Laboratories, Wyeth and Royal Numico, each of whom is selling
infant formula fortified with our nutritional oils.

14

Our licensees are now selling term infant
formula products containing our oils collectively in over 30 countries and pre-term infant formula
products containing our oils collectively in over 60 countries around the world. Pre-term infant
formula products comprise less than 5% of the total infant formula market worldwide. Supplemented
infant formulas manufactured by Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Abbott Laboratories, Wyeth and Nestle
are currently being sold in the United States.

For the three months ended January 31, 2006, we generated approximately $5.6 million in net income
on revenues of $62.9 million. Although we anticipate future growth in annual sales of our
nutritional oils, and we have achieved annual operating profits since fiscal 2003, we may continue
to experience quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year fluctuations in our future operating results,
some of which may be significant. The timing and extent of such fluctuations will depend, in part,
on the timing and receipt of oils-related revenues. The timing and extent of future oils-related
revenues are largely dependent upon the following factors:

the timing of infant formula market introductions by our licensees
both domestically and internationally; 

the timing and extent of stocking and destocking of inventory by our
licensees, including the potential that licensees will move to  just in time  inventory
purchasing now that we have reached a base finished goods inventory level; 

the timing and extent of our customers  plant maintenance shutdowns;

the timing and extent of introductions of DHA into various child and/or adult applications;

the continued acceptance of products containing our oils under state-administered reimbursement programs in the U.S.;

the continued acceptance of these products by consumers and continued demand by our customers; 

the ability by us, DSM and other third-party manufacturers to
produce adequate levels of our nutritional oils on a consistent basis; 

our ability to protect against competitive products through our patents;

competition from alternative sources of DHA and ARA; and

agreements with other future third-party collaborators to market our products or develop new products. 

As such, the likelihood, timing and extent of future profitability are largely dependent on factors
such as those mentioned above, as well as others, over which we have limited or no control.

OVERVIEW AND RECENT HIGHLIGHTS 

In January 2006, Mission Pharmacal introduced  CITRACAL    Prenatal   DHA , a prenatal vitamin
co-packed with 250 mg of Martek DHA .

In January 2006, we announced that infant formula company Medici Medical Ltd. recently signed a
license agreement for the use of Martek s DHA and ARA in infant formula in Israel.

In February 2006, the Company and Odwalla, Inc. announced that Odwalla will launch  Odwalla Soymilk 
which features Martek DHA .  Odwalla Soymilk  is the first soymilk in the United States to contain
DHA. With 32 mg of Martek s vegetarian source DHA per 8 fl. oz. serving, which is 20% of the 160
mg Daily Value for DHA as suggested by the Institute of Medicine in
its 2005 report on Dietary Reference Intakes,  Odwalla Soymilk  is considered an excellent source of DHA.

In March 2006, PBM Products announced it had partnered with Wal-Mart to launch new Parent s Choice
ORGANIC Infant Formula with a blend of Martek s DHA and ARA, which are believed to be the key fatty
acids in brain development. The infant formula is certified Organic by Quality Assurance
International in accordance with USDA regulations.

A variety of new products have been launched that include the Martek DHA  logo. Most recently,
certain  Bright Beginnings   and  Target   (private label) infant formulas and PBM Products 
 GlucoBurst   diabetic drink now include the Martek DHA  logo. In addition, the  CITRACAL    Prenatal  
DHA  and  Odwalla Soymilk  products noted above include, or upon launch will include, the Martek DHA 
logo.

MANAGEMENT OUTLOOK 

From fiscal 2003 through early fiscal 2005, the demand for our nutritional oils by our customers
for use in infant formula products exceeded production output and capacity and, as such, we limited
the orders we accepted for our nutritional oils. Some of our customers responded to the shortages
and inconsistent supply by building inventory, and we have had difficulty in predicting with
certainty our customers  future ordering in light of limited visibility into our customers  supply
chains and expansion plans. To improve visibility into our customers  planned orders and to better
understand the base level of orders required to meet current demand, we have worked closely with
our customers to obtain new order projections. To address our production output and capacity
issues, we and DSM have added production capacity. As a result, we are no longer
limiting the orders we accept for nutritional oils, and, furthermore, we have been able to
accumulate and expect to maintain DHA and ARA finished goods inventory at levels which no longer
constrain revenue growth.

15

We believe that the outlook for future revenue growth remains positive, although quarterly results
may show significant fluctuations. Specifically, over the next twelve to eighteen months, we
expect sales of infant formula to grow at a measured pace in the U.S., driven by consumer purchases
and product line expansions and continued international sales growth, particularly in Asian
countries. We expect modest sales increases for the pregnancy and nursing market throughout the
year and a modest increase in contract manufacturing. With respect to the foods and beverages
market, we anticipate increased sales of our oils for products developed to promote cognitive
function and cardiovascular health. Although sales in the foods and beverages area will grow in
2006, we do not expect them to contribute significantly to overall sales growth until some time in
2007. We do, however, anticipate that over the next few years, these sales will continue to expand
and could ultimately represent a larger potential market than infant formula.

PRODUCTION 

We manufacture oils rich in DHA at our fermentation and oil processing facilities located in
Winchester, Kentucky and Kingstree, South Carolina. We have completed the extensive expansion at
our Kingstree facility for the fermentation and processing of our nutritional oils and spent
approximately $188 million on such expansion.

Our ARA oils are purchased from DSM as manufactured at its Capua, Italy and Belvidere, New Jersey
plants. DSM recently completed its expansion of its ARA production capabilities at its Belvidere
facility, which has been increasing its quarterly output. This has allowed us to build our ARA
inventory to reasonable levels based on current demand. We are now receiving approximately
one-half of our ARA from DSM s Belvidere facility. Because DSM is a third-party manufacturer, we
do not have full control over the timing and level of its Capua and Belvidere production volumes.
Annual ARA pricing utilizes a cost-plus arrangement and is based on the prior year s actual costs
incurred adjusted for current year volume and cost expectations. In February 2006, we and DSM entered into an
amendment to the April 2004 agreement ( the Amendment ). The Amendment served to provide certain
clarifying and updating language to the original agreement and to establish the overall economics
associated with DSM s expansion at both its Belvidere, New Jersey and Capua, Italy production
facilities. We guaranteed the recovery of certain costs incurred by
DSM in connection with this expansion, up to $40 million, with such amount being reduced annually
through December 31, 2008 (the  Recoupment Period ) based upon ARA purchases by us in excess of
specified minimum thresholds. Giving effect to ARA purchases by us subsequent to January 1, 2005,
as permitted by the Amendment, as of January 31, 2006, the guarantee amount has been reduced to
approximately $31 million. The guarantee amount payable, if any, at the end of the Recoupment
Period, must be paid by January 31, 2009. The amount paid will be credited against DSM purchases
that become due to DSM pursuant to invoices received after the Recoupment Period. Management
estimates that the fair value of such guarantee is not material. The Amendment also provides that
we will pay $3 million to DSM as partial reimbursement for certain capital expenditures incurred by
DSM in connection with the Belvidere expansion. We must make such payment within fifteen days
following the date on which DSM notifies us that the total output of the Belvidere facility has
reached a specified level of ARA production. It is expected that such payment will be made by us
during the second quarter of fiscal 2006.

We have attempted to reduce the risk inherent in having a single supplier, such as DSM, through
certain elements of our supply agreement with DSM. In connection with this agreement, we have
licensed the DSM technology associated with ARA production. Through this license and the overall
supply arrangement, we have the ability to produce, either directly or through a third party, an
unlimited amount of ARA. The sale of such self-produced ARA is limited annually, however, to the
greater of (i) 100 tons of ARA oil or (ii) any amounts ordered by us that DSM is unable to fulfill.
During fiscal 2005, we demonstrated the ability to produce limited amounts of ARA in our plants.
To further improve our overall ARA supply chain, we have directly engaged a U.S.-based provider of
certain post-fermentation ARA manufacturing services. Along with our ARA downstream processing
capabilities at Kingstree and Winchester, this third-party facility provides us with multiple U.S.
sites for the full downstream processing of ARA.

When combining our current DHA production capabilities in Winchester and Kingstree with DSM s
current ARA production capabilities in Italy and the U.S., we have production capacity for DHA and
ARA products in excess of $500 million in annualized sales to the infant formula, dietary
supplement and food and beverage markets. As such, our production capabilities exceed current
demand; however, we have the ability to manage production levels and, to a certain extent, control
our manufacturing costs. Nonetheless, when experiencing excess capacity, we may be unable to
produce the required quantities of oil cost-effectively due to the existence of significant levels
of fixed production costs at our plants.

We also have several other contractual agreements with third-party manufacturers to assist in the
production of our nutritional oils. Among them, we have an agreement for the production of DHA-S
biomass that we sell to animal feed companies or process further for use in the adult supplement
and food and beverage markets. We currently have a minimum purchase commitment under this
agreement that expires on June 30, 2006. As of January 31, 2006, our remaining obligation was
approximately $900,000. We do not anticipate extending this third-party arrangement due to the
recent refinement and scale-up of our internal production capabilities for DHA-S at both our
Winchester, Kentucky and Kingstree, South Carolina facilities.

The commercial success of our nutritional oils will depend, in part, on our ability to manufacture
these oils or have them manufactured at large scale on a continuous basis and at a commercially
acceptable cost. Our success will also be somewhat dependent on our ability to align our
production with customer demand. If market demand subsides due to our inability to meet demand for
our products, our results could be negatively impacted.

16

There can also be no assurance that we will
be able to successfully optimize production of our nutritional oils, or continue to comply with
applicable regulatory requirements, including GMP requirements. Under the terms of several of our
infant formula licenses, our licensees may elect to manufacture these oils themselves. We are
currently unaware of any of our licensees producing our oils or preparing to produce our oils, and
estimate that it would take a licensee a minimum of one year to implement a process for making our
oils.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND 
THE USE OF ESTIMATES 

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we
evaluate our estimates and judgments, which are based on historical and anticipated results and
trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances,
including assumptions as to future events. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent
degree of uncertainty and, as such, actual results may differ from our estimates. We discuss
accounting policies and assumptions that involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than
others in our Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
in our Annual Report to shareholders on Form 10-K/A for the year ended October 31, 2005. See also
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q for discussion of the critical
estimates and assumptions used in the calculation of equity-based compensation expenses recorded
during the three months ended January 31, 2006.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Revenues  

The following table presents revenues by category (in thousands):

Product sales decreased by $2.6 million or 4% in the three months ended January 31, 2006 as
compared to the three months ended January 31, 2005. On a sequential quarter basis, product sales
in the three months ended January 31, 2006 increased $8.6 or 17% compared to product sales of $51.9
million in the three months ended October 31, 2005. This sequential quarter growth is primarily
due to increased sales to our core infant formula customers due to higher sales by our customers in
new and existing international markets, as well as modest increases in their domestic sales. The
decrease in the quarter compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005 was primarily due to the
previously disclosed build-up of inventory by certain customers in the three months ended January
31, 2005, which we believe has since been substantially eliminated. Substantially all of our product sales in
the quarters ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 relate to the sale of our oils for use in infant
formulas. Included in product sales in the quarters ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 were $1.0
million and $2.3, respectively, in sales of DHA oil for the pregnancy and nursing market.
Approximately 85% of our product sales in the quarter ended January 31, 2006 was generated by sales
to Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Abbott Laboratories, Nestle and Wyeth. Although we are not given
precise information by our customers as to the countries in which infant formula containing our
oils is ultimately sold, we estimate that approximately two-thirds of our sales to infant formula
licensees for the three months ended January 31, 2006 relate to sales in the U.S. The first infant
formulas containing our oils were introduced in the U.S. in February 2002 and, as of January 31,
2006, we estimate that formula supplemented with our oils had
penetrated approximately 79% of the
U.S. infant formula market.

Although we anticipate that annual product sales will continue to grow, our future sales growth is
dependent to a significant degree upon the following factors: (i) the launches and expansions of
current products containing our nutritional oils by our customers in new and existing markets; (ii)
our ability to maintain a consistent flow of production; (iii) the launches of new products
containing our nutritional oils by current or future customers; and (iv) the availability of
competitive products.

Contract manufacturing sales revenues, totaling $2.4 million and $3.4 million in the three months
ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, relate to fermentation work performed for various
third parties at our Kingstree, South Carolina facility.

As a result of the above, total revenues decreased by $3.6 million or 5% in the quarter ended
January 31, 2006 as compared to the quarter ended January 31, 2005.

17

Cost of Revenues  

The following table presents our cost of revenues (in thousands):

Cost of Product Sales   Cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales was unchanged at 57%
(43% gross profit on product sales) in the quarters ended January 31, 2006 and January 31, 2005.

Cost of Contract Manufacturing Sales   Cost of contract manufacturing sales, totaling $2.0 million
and $2.8 million in the quarters ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, are the costs
related to the fermentation work performed for various third parties at our Kingstree, South
Carolina facility. Our contract manufacturing sales achieve significantly lower gross margins than
our product sales but contribute to the recovery of our fixed overhead costs. These overall
margins will vary between periods primarily due to contract mix.

Idle capacity costs   Idle capacity costs were $1.7 million in the quarter ended January 31, 2006.
Idle capacity costs represent certain fixed period costs associated with underutilized
manufacturing capacity and are expected to continue until higher revenue and related production
activities are realized in the future. We believe the capacity is required in order to enable us to
aggressively pursue other markets, including foods and beverages, which are potentially larger
market opportunities for Martek DHA  than the infant formula market.

We expect our overall gross profit margin in fiscal 2006 to continue to reflect the benefits of
the newly implemented DHA productivity improvements, but we expect these benefits to continue to be
offset by certain idle capacity period costs in 2006 related primarily to the expansion of our
Kingstree facility and potential increases to our average per-unit ARA purchase costs.

Operating Expenses  

The following table presents our operating expenses (in thousands):

Research and Development   Our research and development costs increased by $700,000 or 14% in the
quarter ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the quarter ended January 31, 2005. Research and
development expenses include $400,000 of non-cash equity-based compensation charges in the quarter
ended January 31, 2006. The increase is also due to additional costs incurred on clinical studies
focusing on the cognitive benefits of DHA. We expect that research and development expenses will
increase during fiscal 2006 as our ongoing clinical studies increase in scope. In addition,
through our collaboration with a Canadian biotechnology company, we continue to expend amounts in
the development of DHA products from plants. If certain milestones are achieved during fiscal 2006
in connection with this collaboration, which would indicate significant progress in our development
efforts, we would be required to make and expense a milestone payment in the current fiscal year of
up to $2.5 million.

Selling, General and Administrative   Our selling, general and administrative costs
increased by $1.7 million or 21% in the quarter ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the quarter
ended January 31, 2005. Selling, general and administrative expenses include $600,000 of non-cash
equity-based compensation charges in the quarter ended January 31, 2006. The increase was also due
to personnel costs (increase of $700,000), primarily in the Sales and Corporate Development areas
and partially due to increased cash compensation in lieu of stock options, legal costs (increase of
$200,000) and costs associated with Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance (increase of $200,000). We
anticipate that selling, general and administrative costs will increase during fiscal 2006 as
additional marketing costs are incurred related to new personnel and promotional campaigns,
primarily in support of international infant formula expansion and growth in the foods and
beverages market.

Other
Operating Expenses   We incurred other operating expenses of $41,000 and $3.5 million in the
quarters ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These costs were significantly lower in
the quarter ended January 31, 2006 as production start-up costs incurred by us have greatly
diminished as a result of the completion in late 2005 of the Kingstree facility expansion.

18

Interest and Other Income, Net  

Interest and other income, net, increased by $200,000 in the quarter ended January 31, 2006, due
primarily to varying levels of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and changes in
interest rates.

Interest Expense  

Interest expense totaled $900,000 in the quarter ended January 31, 2006, an increase of $700,000 as
compared to the quarter ended January 31, 2005, as capitalization of interest costs has largely
ceased with the completion of the Kingstree expansion. See  Liquidity and Capital Resources  for
further discussion.

Income Tax Provision  

The non-cash provision for income taxes totaled $3.2 million and $4.1 million in the quarters ended
January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and has been recorded based upon our estimated effective
tax rate for the respective fiscal years.

As of October 31, 2005, we had net operating loss carryforwards for Federal income tax purposes of
approximately $200 million. Approximately $2 million of this amount will expire, if unused, by the
end of fiscal 2008 with the remainder expiring through fiscal 2023.

Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code limits the utilization of net operating losses when
ownership changes, as defined by that section, occur. The Company has reviewed its ownership
change position pursuant to Section 382 and has determined that the utilization of certain of its
net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. Such limitation may defer the utilization of as
much as $66.7 million of its net operating loss carryforwards until periods after fiscal 2009. Due
to the length of time prior to the potential utilization and the uncertainty of having sufficient
taxable income in those periods, the Company believes it is not more likely than not that these
assets will be realized. As such, these net operating loss carryforwards continue to be fully
reserved through a valuation allowance as of January 31, 2006.

Net Income  

As a result of the foregoing, net income was $5.6 million in the three months ended January 31,
2006 as compared to net income of $7.1 million in the three months ended January 31, 2005.

Prior to November 1, 2005, we accounted for our equity-based compensation plans under the
recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 ), and related interpretations, as permitted by SFAS No.
123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ). Effective November 1, 2005, we adopted
the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS
123R ), using the modified prospective transition method. Under the modified prospective transition
method, compensation cost recognized in fiscal 2006 includes: (a) compensation cost for all
share-based payments granted prior to but not yet vested as of November 1, 2005, based on the grant
date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123 and (b)
compensation cost for all share-based payments granted subsequent to November 1, 2005, based on the
grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123R. Results for prior
periods have not been restated.

As a result of adopting SFAS 123R on November 1, 2005, income before income taxes and net income
for the three months ended January 31, 2006 were $1.0 million and $600,000 lower, respectively,
than if the Company had continued to account for share-based compensation under APB 25. Basic and
diluted earnings per share for the three months ended January 31, 2006 would have each been $0.19
if the Company had not adopted SFAS 123R, compared to reported basic and diluted earnings per share
of $0.17 each. As of January 31, 2006, there was $4.4 million of total unrecognized compensation
cost related to unvested stock options granted under our equity-based compensation plans. The cost
is expected to be recognized through fiscal 2010 with a weighted average recognition period of
approximately one year.

In December 2004 and January and May 2005, we modified the terms of certain outstanding and
unvested stock options whose exercise prices were greater than our closing stock price on the
modification dates. Total modifications served to immediately vest approximately 1.2 million
unvested stock options. The accelerations have enabled us to avoid recording approximately $27
million of compensation cost that would have been required to be recognized under SFAS 123R.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

We have financed our operations primarily from the following sources:

cash generated from operations; 

proceeds from the sale of equity securities; 

cash received from the exercise of stock options and warrants; and 

debt financing. 

19

At January 31, 2006, our primary sources of liquidity were our cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments totaling $36.7 million as well as the available portion of our revolving
credit facility of $72 million. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased $3.3
million from October 31, 2005. This increase was generated primarily by additional borrowing under
our revolving credit facility and slightly by positive operating cash flows.

With the completion of our expansion in Kingstree in the prior fiscal year, we expect that capital
expenditures during the remainder of fiscal 2006 will not exceed $20 million. Interest incurred on
borrowings has been capitalized to the extent that the borrowings were used to cover the balance of
projects under construction. In the three months ended January 31, 2006, we incurred interest on
borrowings of approximately $1.1 million and recorded amortization of related debt fees of
approximately $40,000, of which, in total, $200,000 was capitalized.

Since our inception, we have raised approximately $420 million from public and private sales of our
equity securities, as well as from option and warrant exercises. In August 2004, our shelf
registration statement was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The shelf
registration statement enables us to raise funds through the offering of debt securities, preferred
stock, common stock and warrants, as well as any combination thereof, from time to time and through
one or more methods of distribution, in an aggregate amount of up to $200 million. In January
2005, we completed an underwritten public offering of 1,756,614 shares of our common stock at price
of $49.10 per share pursuant to the shelf registration statement. Remaining availability under the
shelf registration statement is approximately $110 million at January 31, 2006.

The following table sets forth our future minimum payments under contractual obligations at January
31, 2006:

(1) 
       
     Minimum payments above include interest and principal due under these notes.  

(2) 
       
     Does not include $3 million capital reimbursement
obligation to DSM related to the Amendment
signed in February 2006. 

In September 2005, we entered into a $135 million secured revolving credit facility which amended
and expanded our existing $100 million credit facility. The revolving credit facility is
collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory and all capital stock of our subsidiaries and
expires in September 2010. The weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding under the
credit facility was approximately 5.8% and 4.1% for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively, and the weighted average commitment fee rate on unused amounts was
approximately 0.2% and 0.3%, respectively. Both the interest and commitment fee rates are based on
LIBOR and our current leverage ratio. Among other things, the credit facility agreement contains
restrictions on future debt, the payment of dividends and the further encumbrance of assets. In
addition, the credit facility requires that we comply with specified financial ratios and tests,
including minimum coverage ratios and maximum leverage ratios. We do not believe that these
covenants restrict our ability to carry out our current business plan. As of January 31, 2006, we
were in compliance with all of these debt covenants and had outstanding borrowings of $63 million
under the revolving credit facility.

In October and December 2004, we entered into operating leases for equipment at our Kingstree
facility as part of sale-leaseback transactions. The equipment subject to lease was sold at its
aggregate cost basis and fair value of $14.9 million and simultaneously leased back to us. The
leases expire in October 2009 and contain the same restrictions as our revolving credit facility.

In December 2003, we executed a collaboration agreement with a Canadian biotechnology company to
co-develop DHA products from plants. In addition to reimbursement of expenses incurred by the
co-collaborator, we are contingently liable for milestone payments upon achievement of certain
scientific results. As of January 31, 2006, a milestone payment of up to $2.5 million would be
paid to our co-collaborator in fiscal 2006 if the milestone related to the current phase of the
project is achieved. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the achievement of this milestone within
the required timeframe, we have not recorded a liability associated
with this milestone or included it in the
table above.

We believe that the revolving credit facility, when combined with our cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments of $36.7 million on-hand at January 31, 2006, and anticipated operating cash
flows, will provide us with adequate capital to meet our obligations for at least the next twelve
to eighteen months.

20

The ultimate amount of additional funding that we may require will depend, among other things, on
one or more of the following factors:

the cost and extent of capital expenditures at our manufacturing facilities; 

growth in our infant formula, food and beverage and other nutritional product sales; 

the extent and progress of our research and development programs; 

the progress of pre-clinical and clinical studies; 

the time and costs of obtaining and maintaining regulatory clearances for our products that are subject to such clearances;

the costs involved in filing, protecting and enforcing patent claims; 

competing technological and market developments; 

the development or acquisition of new products; 

the cost of acquiring additional and/or operating and expanding
existing manufacturing facilities for our various products and potential products
(depending on which products we decide to manufacture and continue to manufacture
ourselves); 

the costs associated with our internal build-up of inventory levels; 

the costs associated with our defense against putative securities class action lawsuits; and 

the costs of marketing and commercializing our products. 

We can offer no assurance that, if needed, any of our financing alternatives will be available to
us on terms that would be acceptable, if at all.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

We have entered into lease agreements for certain laboratory and administrative space as well as
manufacturing equipment with rental payments aggregating $15.0 million over the remaining lease
terms, which expire through 2011. Included in these aggregate rentals are amounts related to
certain equipment leases, for which we are contingently liable for a residual value guarantee of
approximately $2.3 million.

In February 2006, we and DSM entered into an amendment to the April 2004 agreement ( the
Amendment ). The Amendment served to provide certain clarifying and updating language to the
original agreement and to establish the overall economics associated with DSM s expansion at both
its Belvidere, New Jersey and Capua, Italy production facilities. We guaranteed the recovery of certain costs incurred by DSM in connection with this expansion, up
to $40 million, with such amount being reduced annually through December 31, 2008 (the  Recoupment
Period ) based upon ARA purchases by us in excess of specified minimum thresholds. Giving effect to
ARA purchases by us subsequent to January 1, 2005, as permitted by the Amendment, as of January 31,
2006, the guarantee amount has been reduced to approximately $31 million. The guarantee amount
payable, if any, at the end of the Recoupment Period, must be paid by January 31, 2009. The amount
paid will be credited against DSM purchases that become due to DSM pursuant to invoices received
after the Recoupment Period.

We do not engage in any other off-balance sheet financing arrangements. In particular, we do not
have any interest in entities referred to as variable interest entities, which include special
purpose entities and structured finance entities.

21

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 

We are subject to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and
interest rates.

Beginning in January 2004, purchases of ARA from DSM s plant in Capua, Italy were denominated in
euros, which exposes us to risks related to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and
the euro. Fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the euro will impact our cost of ARA oil and
gross margins. We estimate that a 5% change in the exchange rate would impact gross margins of our
infant formula products by approximately 1%. Our exposure to these currency fluctuations has begun
to slightly decrease as DSM now produces ARA in the U.S. at its Belvidere, New Jersey facility. We
enter into foreign currency cash flow hedges to reduce the related market risk on our payment
obligations. We do not enter into foreign currency cash flow hedges for speculative purposes. At
January 31, 2006, we had unrealized gains on such hedge instruments totaling $300,000, net of
income tax provision.

We are subject to risk from adverse changes in interest rates, primarily relating to variable-rate
borrowings used to maintain liquidity and finance our manufacturing facility expansion. Based on
our variable-rate debt outstanding at January 31, 2006, a 1% change in LIBOR would change annual
interest by approximately $600,000. At January 31, 2006, the carrying amounts of debt approximate
fair value.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures. 

a) 
       
      Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.  The Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Martek Biosciences Corporation have evaluated the
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) and have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by
this report, the disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 

b) 
       
      Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  There was no change in our
internal control over financial reporting in connection with the evaluation required by
paragraph (d) of Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 under the Exchange Act that occurred during
Martek s quarter ended January 31, 2006 that materially affected, or is reasonably likely
to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 

22

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 

Aventis S.A. and Nagase   Co. Ltd. are challenging our European patent covering our DHA-containing
oils. At a hearing in October 2000, the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office ( EPO )
revoked our patent on the grounds that it was not novel. We immediately appealed this ruling, and
in July 2002 we received a positive ruling from an Appeal Board of the EPO, setting aside the prior
decision to revoke this patent. The patent was returned to the Opposition Division for a
determination as to whether it has met the legal requirement of  inventive step . A hearing in
August 2005 resulted in a ruling by the Opposition Division that this requirement had been met and
the validity of the patent was upheld. Aventis has appealed the decision to the Appeal Board of the
EPO. The appeal process is not expected to be completed before 2007. Claim 1 of this patent is the
basis of the patent infringement suit against Nutrinova and Lonza in Germany, discussed below.

With respect to our ARA patent issued by the EPO, BASF AG, Friesland Brands B.V., and Suntory
Limited filed their grounds for opposing this patent with the Opposition Division of the EPO. At a
hearing at the Opposition Division in April 2005, the Opposition Division of the EPO upheld the
patent in a form containing modified claims that are narrower than the claims originally granted.
In an effort to broaden the claims of the patent, we appealed the decision. Suntory and BASF have
also appealed. Friesland Brands B.V. has withdrawn from the
opposition. The patent in the form containing the claims that were originally granted will
remain in full force and effect throughout the appeal process. The appeal process is not expected
to be completed until late 2006 or 2007.

With respect to our blended oil (blend of DHA and ARA oils for use in various applications,
including infant formula) patent issued by the EPO, BASF AG and Suntory Limited filed their grounds
for opposing this patent with the Opposition Division of the EPO. In November 2004, the Opposition
Division of the EPO revoked Martek s European blended oil patent as a result of these challenges.
We immediately filed an appeal of this decision; as a consequence, the blended oil patent
has been reinstated and will remain in full force and effect during the appeal. Both Suntory and
BASF have now filed responses to our appeal. The appeal process is not expected to be completed
until 2007.

Prior to our purchase of OmegaTech, Aventis Research and Technologies GmbH   Co. KG, and Nagase
Limited challenged OmegaTech s European patent covering its DHA containing oils. At a hearing in
December 2000, the Opposition Division of the EPO upheld some of the claims and revoked other
claims. OmegaTech immediately appealed this ruling, as did Aventis. At an appeal hearing in May
2005, we received a favorable decision from the Appeal Board of the EPO, which overturned the
decision of the Opposition Division and returned the case to the Opposition Division for review on
the merits of the patent claims. Any decision made by the Opposition Division can be appealed.
Assuming an appeal, the review process is not expected to be
completed until 2009, during which time the patent will remain in full force and effect.

An EPO Opposition Division hearing was held on November 15, 2005, with respect to a European DHA
patent acquired by Martek as part of the OmegaTech purchase. The patent was upheld in modified
form. This patent is directed to processes for fermenting  Thraustochytrium  and  Schizochytrium  under
low chloride conditions and the resulting products. Nutrinova Nutrition Specialities   Food
Ingredients GmbH is the only opponent, and we expect it to appeal. The appeal process is not
expected to be completed before 2007.

In June 2005, we entered into settlement agreements with the City of Winchester, the Winchester
Municipal Utilities Commission ( WMU ) and the insurer for the WMU with respect to a March 12, 2003
explosion that occurred at a public wastewater treatment works in Winchester, Kentucky, resulting
in property damage. The settlement agreements provide for a full release with respect to any claims
that the City of Winchester, the WMU or the WMU s insurer may have against the Company in
connection with the matter and include settlement payments for amounts previously accrued. As such,
the settlements did not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

We learned in March 2004 that the federal Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ), utilizing
personnel from its Criminal Investigation Division, had asked questions of current and former
Martek employees relating to the explosion at the Winchester wastewater treatment plant and
relating to n-hexane. Current and former employees have testified before a federal grand jury that
is investigating the matter. We further learned in April 2005 that the EPA has interviewed two
additional employees of Martek and has requested information from the WMU on a number of matters
including the March 12, 2003 explosion. While we cannot be certain of the outcome of the EPA
investigation, we believe that the outcome of the investigation will not have a material impact on
our financial condition or results of operations.

In September 2003, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the U.S. District Court in Delaware
against Nutrinova Inc., Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties   Food Ingredients GmbH, Celanese Ventures
GmbH, and Celanese AG alleging infringement of two of our U.S. patents. Celanese Ventures GmbH and
Celanese AG have been dropped from the lawsuit. We added an additional three patents to the
suit, bringing the total number that Nutrinova was accused of
infringing at that time to five patents. The
lawsuit alleges that Nutrinova has been making, using, offering to sell, selling and/or importing
into the United States DHA that infringes the patents. In October 2003, Nutrinova filed
counterclaims alleging inequitable conduct and invalidity, unenforceability and/or noninfringement
of 19 of our U.S. patents, but the parties reached an agreement to limit the
counterclaims to the patents involved in the suit at the time of the
agreement. A scheduling hearing in the case was held in January 2005, and the
trial is scheduled for

23

October 2006.
In July 2005, the court granted Martek s motion to add as a defendant in the case a company that is a U.S.
customer for Nutrinova s DHA, and in January 2006, Martek settled its dispute with this defendant
on terms favorable to Martek. A hearing before the court on the meaning and scope of the patent
claims in dispute was held in late November 2005, and the judge
issued his written decision in December
2005. As a result of this decision by the judge, Martek has decided
to limit the number of patents that it is accusing Nutrinova of
infringing to three. In December 2005, it was announced that Nutrinova s DHA business
was sold to Lonza Group LTD, a Swiss chemical and biotechnology
group, and the parties agreed to add Lonza to the U.S. lawsuit.
 We also filed a patent infringement suit involving Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties   Food
Ingredients GmbH and Celanese Ventures GmbH in Germany in January 2004. The complaint alleges
infringement of our European patent relating to DHA-containing oils. A hearing in this case was
held in a district court in Dusseldorf in April 2005 and the court delayed its decision pending
input from a court-appointed technical expert. The court s decision is expected at some point in
the second half of 2006. Lonza has also been added to this lawsuit.

With respect to our ARA patent in South Korea, where we believe there are limited sales of infant
formula containing our ARA oil, Suntory has also filed an opposition. A hearing on the matter was
held in late January 2006 and the decision is still pending. If the decision is in Martek s favor,
Suntory cannot appeal, but if the decision is against Martek, Martek can appeal. Suntory has also
initiated an invalidation case against our blended oil patent in South Korea. Our response to
Suntory was filed in February 2005 and Suntory responded in March 2006. No hearing date has been set, and is not expected before late
2006.

On October 18, 2004, we filed a Declaratory Judgment Complaint in the United States District Court
for the District of Maryland against Robert Zuccaro, as stockholders  representative of the former
security holders of OmegaTech, Inc. The complaint was brought to seek to resolve Mr. Zuccaro s
claim that the former OmegaTech security holders are owed 666,119 additional Martek shares under
the Agreement and Plan of Merger by which we acquired OmegaTech because a milestone under that
agreement was allegedly met. That milestone was to be triggered if a report issued by the Institute
of Medicine of the National Academy of Science regarding the nutritional properties of DHA met
criteria specified in the merger agreement. We have asked the Court to declare that the report
does not fulfill the requirements of the milestone and that we are not required to distribute any
shares to the former security holders of OmegaTech. While we believe that our position is
meritorious and that the milestone was not met, no assurance can be given as to the outcome of the
litigation. On October 25, 2004, Mr. Zuccaro submitted a demand to the Judicial Arbitration and
Mediation Service, seeking to arbitrate this dispute. In December 2004, the District Court ruled
that the dispute over the milestone is not subject to arbitration. Thereafter, on February 9,
2005, Mr. Zuccaro filed an answer and counterclaim. We have filed a timely answer denying the
allegations set forth in the counterclaim, and discovery is now complete. In December 2005, the
District Court conducted a settlement conference, at which time no settlement was reached. We
filed a motion for summary judgment on March 10, 2006, and we anticipate that Mr. Zuccaro will also
file a motion seeking summary judgment in the near future. In the
event that the motions for
summary judgment are denied and the case proceeds to trial, we project that a trial would likely
take place in late 2007.

On May 4, 2005, a putative class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for
the District of Maryland, against us and certain of our officers, captioned  Reed Black v. Martek
Biosciences Corporation, et al. , Case No. MJG 05 CV1224. Since then, several other putative class
action lawsuits were filed against us and certain of our officers in the United States District
Court of Maryland making similar allegations. These other putative class actions lawsuits are captioned as follows:  Brocco v. Martek Biosciences
Corp., et. al. , Case No. MJG 05 CV 1257;  Sowattanangkul v. Martek Biosciences Corp., et. al. , Case
No. MJG 05 CV 1309;  Wright v. Martek Biosciences Corp., et. al. , Case No. 05-1354;  Epstein v.
Martek Biosciences Corp., et. al.,  Case No. MJG 05 CV 1508;  Fujitake v. Martek Biosciences Corp.,
et. al. , Case No. MJG 05 CV 1514; and  Peterson v. Martek Biosciences Corporation, et. al.,  Case No.
MJG 05-CV-1556. The Court has entered Orders consolidating these cases, appointing lead plaintiffs
and approving lead plaintiffs  counsel and liaison counsel. On November 18, 2005, a consolidated
amended class action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of
Maryland in  In re Martek Biosciences Corp. Securities Litigation , Civil Action No. MJG 05-1224.
While the Court has not made a determination of whether a putative class can be certified, the
consolidated complaint claims to be filed on behalf of the purchasers of the Company s common stock
during a purported class period beginning December 9, 2004 and ending April 28, 2005. At this
time, plaintiffs have not specified the amount of damages they are seeking in the actions. The
consolidated complaint alleges violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5, promulgated thereunder, and violations of Section 11 and
15 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.. The consolidated complaint alleges generally that
we and the individual defendants made false or misleading public statements and failed to disclose
material facts regarding our business and prospects in public statements we made or failed to make
during the period and, in the case of the Securities Act of 1933 claims, in our January 2005
prospectus. We filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint
on February 3, 2006, and a
hearing before the Court on this motion is currently scheduled for late May 2006.

In addition, from time to time, Martek is a party to litigation or administrative proceedings
relating to claims arising from its operations in the normal course of business. Management
believes that the ultimate resolution of any such litigation or administrative proceedings
currently pending against Martek is unlikely, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a
material adverse effect on Martek s results of operations or financial condition.

24

Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision,
you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth herein, as well as other information we
include in this report and the additional information in the other reports we file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC  or the  Commission ). If any of the following risks
actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our securities
could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. 

You should be cautioned that the following important factors have affected, and in the future could
affect, our actual results. There may also be additional factors not discussed in this report that
could also affect future results. These factors could cause our future financial results to differ
materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us. Forward-looking
statements may relate to such matters as:

our ability to generate future revenues; 

the commercialization of our products; 

the expansion and ongoing operation of facilities producing our products; 

our ability to produce adequate amounts of our products ourselves or through third-party manufacturers; 

the optimization of production costs; and 

our ability to enter into future business collaborations and marketing partnerships. 

Forward-looking statements may include words such as  will,   should,   could,   anticipate, 
 believe,   plan,   estimate,   expect,   intend,  and other similar expressions. This list does
not constitute all factors which you should consider prior to making a decision to invest in our
securities. You should also not assume that the information contained herein is complete or
accurate in all respects after the date of this filing. We disclaim any duty to update the
statements contained herein.

A substantial portion of our nutritional oil products sales is made to four of our existing
customers under agreements with no minimum purchase requirements. If demand by these customers
for our nutritional oil products declines, our revenues may materially decline.  

We rely on a substantial portion of our product sales to four of our existing customers.
Approximately 85% of our product sales revenue during the three months ended January 31, 2006 was
generated by sales of DHA and ARA to four customers: Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Abbott
Laboratories, Nestle and Wyeth. We cannot guarantee that these customers will continue to demand
our nutritional products at current or predictable levels. None of our license agreements requires
our licensees to purchase any minimum amount of products from us now or in the future, and certain
of our license agreements allow our licensees to manufacture our products themselves or purchase
nutritional oils from other sources. We have limited visibility into our customers  future actual
level of demand, notwithstanding our view of consumer demand. If demand by any of our significant
customers for our nutritional products declines, we may experience a material decline in our
revenues.

We are aware of several products that are currently available, and products under development,
that may present a serious competitive threat to our products.  

Our success depends upon achieving and maintaining a superior competitive position in the infant
formula and adult nutritional product markets. Many potential competitors, which include companies
such as BASF AG, Cargill Inc., Suntory Limited, Celanese Corporation, Lonza Group LTD and Nagase  
Co. Ltd., have substantially greater research and development capabilities, marketing, financial
and managerial resources and experience in the industry. Some of these competitors are currently
offering competing sources of DHA and ARA for use in the food and beverage and dietary supplement
markets and for use in infant formula outside the U.S. If a competitor develops a better product
or technology, our competitors  products gain widespread acceptance, or we lose our patents, the
sales of our products may be materially adversely affected and our technologies rendered obsolete.

25

We are aware that other sources of DHA and ARA are, or may, be available, any of which could
represent a competitive threat that could seriously harm our product sales. Specifically:

the Ross Products Division of Abbott Laboratories, a significant
Martek licensee and customer, filed a generally recognized as safe notification on January
2, 2002 seeking Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) concurrence that its fish oil source
of DHA and its fungal source of ARA are generally recognized as safe when used as
ingredients in infant formula. At this time, the notification continues to be under
consideration by the FDA; 

Reliant Pharmaceuticals launched Omacor, a DHA/ EPA ethyl ester, in
the second half of 2005 for treatment of hyperlipidemia. Omacor is a lipid-regulating
agent which includes both EPA and DHA from fish oil. We expect additional studies to
expand the approved indications for Omacor. Other pharmaceutical applications using
omega-3 fatty acids may be expected. 

Suntory Limited, Cargill Inc., through a joint venture with a
company in China, and other independent Chinese manufacturers are producing and
distributing a fungal source of ARA. In addition, we are aware that there may be
manufacturers in China attempting to produce an
algal source of DHA, but we are uncertain of the overall status and commercial potential of
these development efforts; 

some infant formulas now on the market outside the United States use
DHA derived from other sources, such as fish oil or eggs; 

Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties   Food Ingredients GmbH, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Celanese Corporation, had been actively marketing a DHA-rich
microalgal oil to the food and beverage and dietary supplement markets in the United
States, China and Europe. We have filed a patent infringement suit against Nutrinova in
both the United States and Germany. These lawsuits are further described in Item 1 of Part
II of this Form 10-Q,  Legal Proceedings.  In
December 2005, the sale of Nutrinova s DHA business to Lonza Group LTD, a Swiss chemical and
biotechnology group, was announced; and 

other companies, several with greater financial resources than ours,
are developing plant-based DHA and other companies are developing chemically synthesized
DHA. 

Several large companies, including BASF AG, DSM and Ocean Nutrition, and a number of smaller
companies, manufacture microencapsulated fish oil products. Although microencapsulation of the oil
resolves many of the odor, stability and taste issues found with fish oil, a microencapsulated
product currently is more costly than regular fish oil. Fish oil-based products currently dominate
the adult DHA supplement market and certain foods containing fish oils are on the market in various
parts of the world. Because fish oil is generally less costly than our DHA oil and continues to
improve in quality and gain general market acceptance, fish oil presents a substantial competitive
threat.

If we are unable to obtain or maintain patent protection or if our patents do not provide
protection against competitive products, our results of operations may be adversely affected.  

Our success is dependent in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our
products, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of
others. Our policy is to aggressively protect our proprietary technology through patents, where
appropriate, and in other cases, through trade secrets. Additionally, in certain cases, we rely on
the licenses of patents and technology of third parties. There can be no assurance that (i) any
patents issued to or licensed by us will provide us with any competitive advantages or adequate
protection for inventions; (ii) any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged,
invalidated or circumvented by others; or (iii) issued patents, or patents that may be issued, will
provide protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. Furthermore,
patent law relating to the scope of claims in the fields of healthcare and biosciences is still
evolving, and our patent rights are subject to this uncertainty. European and United States patent
authorities have not adopted a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed for health
and bioscience patents. Our patent rights on our products therefore might conflict with the patent
rights of others, whether existing now or in the future.

In certain
competitive geographic markets, we do not have patent protection and may be unable to obtain it.
In other competitive markets, we may be unable to maintain the patent protection for our nutritional oils
currently afforded to us. A lack of patent protection would have a material adverse effect on our
ability to gain a competitive advantage for these oils and may have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations, particularly future sales of our nutritional oils. In particular, a lack
of patent protection would permit our competitors to manufacture products that would be directly
competitive with our nutritional oils using similar or identical processes, and it is possible that
our current infant formula manufacturers under license or those which may be under license in the
future may choose formula ingredients from these competitors if they choose to include the
ingredients in their formulas at all.

A number of our competitors have challenged our patents, particularly in Europe:

Aventis S.A. and Nagase   Co. Ltd. are challenging our European
patent covering our DHA-containing oils. At a hearing in October 2000, the Opposition
Division of the European Patent Office ( EPO ) revoked our patent on the grounds that it
was not novel. We immediately appealed this ruling, and in July 2002 we received a positive
ruling from an Appeal Board of the EPO, setting aside the prior decision to revoke this
patent. The patent was returned to the Opposition Division for a determination as to
whether it has met the legal requirement of  inventive step . A hearing in August 2005
resulted in a ruling by the Opposition Division that this requirement had been met and the
validity of the patent was upheld. Aventis has appealed the decision to the Appeal Board of
the EPO. The appeal process is not expected to be completed before 2007. Claim 1 of this
patent is the basis of the patent infringement suit against Nutrinova
and Lonza in Germany, discussed
below. 

26

With respect to our ARA patent issued by the EPO, BASF AG,
Friesland Brands B.V., and Suntory Limited filed their grounds for opposing this patent
with the Opposition Division of the EPO. At a hearing at the Opposition Division in April
2005, the Opposition Division of the EPO upheld the patent in a form containing modified
claims that are narrower than the claims originally granted. In an effort to broaden the
claims of the patent, we appealed the decision. Suntory and BASF have
also appealed. Friesland Brands B.V. has withdrawn from the
opposition. The
patent in the form containing the claims that were originally granted will remain in full
force and effect throughout the appeal process. The appeal process is not expected to be
completed until late 2006 or 2007. Further, in order to broaden the scope of protection,
Martek has pending patent applications and intends to pursue new patent applications which
would be based on the existing patent. If the patent in the narrower form approved by the
Opposition Division is ultimately upheld and certain pending and new related patent
applications are not granted with the desired claim scope, it is likely that Martek s
European intellectual property position with respect to ARA would not afford much
competitive protection. 

With respect to our blended oil (blend of DHA and ARA oils for
use in various applications, including infant formula) patent issued by the EPO, BASF AG
and Suntory Limited filed their grounds for opposing this patent with the Opposition
Division of the EPO. In November 2004, the Opposition Division of the EPO revoked Martek s
European blended oil patent as a result of these challenges. We immediately filed an appeal
of this decision; as a consequence, the blended oil patent has been reinstated and will
remain in full force and effect during the appeal. Both Suntory and BASF have now filed
responses to our appeal. The appeal process is not expected to be completed until 2007. 

Prior to our purchase of OmegaTech, Aventis Research and
Technologies GmbH   Co. KG, and Nagase Limited challenged OmegaTech s European patent
covering its DHA containing oils. At a hearing in December 2000, the Opposition Division of
the EPO upheld some of the claims and revoked other claims. OmegaTech immediately appealed
this ruling, as did Aventis. At an appeal hearing in May 2005, we received a favorable
decision from the Appeal Board of the EPO, which overturned the decision of the Opposition
Division and returned the case to the Opposition Division for review on the merits of the
patent claims. Any decision made by the Opposition Division can be appealed. Assuming an
appeal, the review process is not expected to be completed until 2009, during which time the patent will remain in full force and effect. 

An EPO Opposition Division hearing was held on November 15,
2005, with respect to a European DHA patent acquired by Martek as part of the OmegaTech
purchase. The patent was upheld in modified form. This patent is directed to processes for
fermenting  Thraustochytrium  and  Schizochytrium  under low chloride conditions and the
resulting products. Nutrinova Nutrition Specialities   Food Ingredients GmbH is the only
opponent, and we expect it to appeal. The appeal process is not expected to be completed
before 2007. 

In September 2003, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit in
the U.S. District Court in Delaware against Nutrinova Inc., Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties
  Food Ingredients GmbH, Celanese Ventures GmbH, and Celanese AG alleging infringement of
two of our U.S. patents. Celanese Ventures GmbH and Celanese AG have been dropped from the
lawsuit. We have added an additional three patents to the suit, bringing the total number
that Nutrinova was accused of infringing at that time to five patents. The lawsuit alleges that Nutrinova
has been making, using, offering to sell, selling and/or importing into the United States
DHA that infringes the patents. In October 2003, Nutrinova filed counterclaims alleging
inequitable conduct and invalidity, unenforceability and/or noninfringement of 19 of our
U.S. patents, but the parties reached an agreement to limit the counterclaims to
the patents involved in the suit at the time of the agreement. A scheduling hearing in the case was held in January 2005, and
the trial is scheduled for October 2006. In July 2005, the court granted Martek s motion to
add as a defendant in the case a company that is a U.S. customer for Nutrinova s DHA, and
in January 2006, Martek settled its dispute with this defendant on terms favorable to
Martek. A hearing before the court on the meaning and scope of the patent claims in dispute
was held in late November 2005, and the judge issued his written
decision in December 2005. As a result of this decision by the
judge, Martek has decided to limit the number of patents that it is
accusing Nutrinova of infringing to three. In December 2005, it was announced that Nutrinova s DHA business
was sold to Lonza Group LTD, a Swiss chemical and biotechnology
group, and the parties agreed to add Lonza to the U.S. lawsuit.
 We also
filed a patent infringement suit involving Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties   Food
Ingredients GmbH and Celanese Ventures GmbH in Germany in January 2004. The complaint
alleges infringement of our European patent relating to DHA-containing oils. A hearing in
this case was held in a district court in Dusseldorf in April 2005 and the court delayed
its decision pending input from a court-appointed technical expert. The court s decision is
expected at some point in the second half of 2006. Lonza has also been
added to this lawsuit. 

With respect to our ARA patent in South Korea, where we believe
there are limited sales of infant formula containing our ARA oil, Suntory has also filed an
opposition. A hearing on the matter was held in late January 2006 and the decision is still
pending. If the decision is in Martek s favor, Suntory cannot appeal, but if the decision
is against Martek, Martek can appeal. Suntory has also initiated an invalidation case
against our blended oil patent in South Korea. Our response to Suntory was filed in
February 2005 and Suntory responded in March 2006. No hearing date has been set, and is not expected before late 2006. 

If any of the challenges described above or any other challenges to our patents that may arise in
the future are successful, our competitors may be able to produce similar products and, as a
result, we may experience decreases in the future sales of our nutritional oils. If our products
are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we may have to pay substantial
damages. The revocation of our European DHA patent, ARA patent or blended oils patent could result
in a decrease in revenues under our license agreements.

We expect that in the future, as our nutritional oils continue to be commercialized, opposition to
our intellectual property by our competitors will continue and most likely increase. We may incur
substantial costs in the future protecting and defending our patents and cannot be sure that we
will be able to successfully defend our patents or that our competitors will not be able to  design
around  our intellectual property.

27

If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results on the benefits of DHA on cognitive
function, cardiovascular health or other health applications, our future revenues may be limited
in the food and beverage market and the dietary supplement market.  

In addition to sales into the infant formula market, approximately 2% and 1% of our product sales
revenues in the quarters ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, came from sales of our
nutritional oils to the adult supplement and food and beverage markets. Investigators at
universities and at other research centers, such as the National Institutes of Health, have
observed a relationship between low levels of DHA and a variety of health risks. We are currently
trying to establish what contribution, if any, supplementation with our oils will make in
addressing these problems. Although clinical data are not required to market food and beverage
ingredients or dietary supplements outside of the infant formula market, we believe that further
clinical studies may be needed to validate the benefits of DHA supplementation in order to gain
widespread entry into these markets. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results
on the benefits of DHA, our future revenues in these markets may be limited.

Our oils are very sensitive to oxidation and may not be very compatible with many liquid or dry
foods that are currently on the market. If economical methods are not developed to successfully
incorporate our oils into various food and beverage applications, we may never be able to gain
large-scale entry into the food and beverage market.  

Although we believe that the food and beverage market could be a large market for DHA fortification
with our DHA-S oil, the potential in this market could be limited if methods are not developed that
allow incorporation of the oil into various foods and beverages with acceptable flavor and texture
for the duration of the shelf life of the food and beverage products. While DHA-enriched food and
beverage products with acceptable flavor and stability have been developed, risks exist for other
finished food and beverage products, such as cereals, milk and certain types of nutritional bars
for which DHA fortification has not yet been successfully established. Even if we can successfully
incorporate our oils into foods and beverages, manufacturers of these products will have to develop
methods to demonstrate feasibility in their production processes. The timing and extent of our
sales into the food and beverage market, therefore, are dependent not only on market demand, but
also on manufacturing issues over which we have little or no control.

We have a single third-party supplier of our ARA with whom we have a contractual relationship.
If this supplier of our ARA is unable to supply us with our required amounts of ARA or if an
over-capacity situation by our supplier leads to higher cost ARA, our results of operations
and/or financial position may be adversely affected.  

We have entered into an agreement with a third-party manufacturer, DSM, to supply ARA out of its
plants in Capua, Italy and Belvidere, New Jersey. Because DSM is a third-party manufacturer, we do
not have full control over the timing and level of its Capua and Belvidere production volumes. If
DSM fails to supply us with required amounts of ARA under our agreement, we would not be able to
meet our customers  demands unless we were able to utilize alternative sources of supply. In this
regard, we would have to either manufacture the ARA at one or both of our plants, which may be more
costly and would also reduce our DHA oil production capacity, or enter into other third-party
manufacturer supply agreements which we may not be able to do in a timely manner. Furthermore, due
to certain contractual provisions, if our demand for ARA falls short of DSM s supply capability,
this excess capacity by our supplier would result in higher unit-based ARA costs to us. If we are
unable to purchase or produce sufficient and/or cost-effective quantities of ARA, our future
results of operations and/or financial position may be adversely affected.

If we are unable to continuously utilize and adequately manage our production capacity or enter
into favorable agreements with third parties to produce our oils or if our suppliers fail to
produce and supply us with adequate amounts of oil, our customers may not be able to obtain a
sufficient supply of DHA and ARA from us and our future revenues from these products may be
limited.  

From fiscal 2003 through early fiscal 2005, the demand for our nutritional oils by our customers
for use in infant formula products exceeded production output and capacity and, as such, we limited
the orders we accepted for our nutritional oils. Some of our customers responded to the shortages
and inconsistent supply by building inventory, and we have had difficulty in predicting with
certainty what our customers  future ordering would be in light of limited visibility into our
customers  supply chains and expansion plans. With this limited visibility into customer demand,
we may be unable to provide the required quantities of oil cost-effectively, and we may have
difficulties managing our product inventories or forecasting demand, which could result in
shortfalls or excess supply. In addition, due to our historic production capacity issue, our
customers may seek alternative sources of supply, delay entry into new markets or generally
decrease their orders from us. Although some of our licensees have a right to manufacture DHA and
ARA, we are not aware of any of our licensees doing so or preparing to do so. Our future revenues
from sales of our nutritional oils may be limited if (a) we are unable to manufacture or
cost-effectively manufacture our DHA-containing oil at our Winchester and Kingstree plants; (b) we
are unable to enter into other satisfactory and timely third-party manufacturing agreements; (c) we
and DSM are unable to produce adequate supplies of ARA and/or DHA-containing oils; (d) our
licensees are able to find alternative sources for DHA or ARA; or (e) we are unable to adequately
manage our production capacity in light of customer expectations and demand.

28

As we and our major suppliers increase production of our nutritional oils, we may experience
certain risks associated with the start-up/ ramp-up of commercial manufacturing that could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/ or results of operations.  

We have completed our extensive expansion in Kingstree for the fermentation and processing of our
nutritional oils and DSM has completed its ARA production expansion in Belvidere, New Jersey and
Capua, Italy. When combining our current DHA production capabilities in Winchester and Kingstree
with DSM s current ARA production capabilities in Italy and the U.S., we currently have production
capacity for all DHA and ARA products in excess of $500 million in annualized sales of our oils to
the infant formula, dietary supplement and food and beverage markets. Our and DSM s ability to
maintain commercial production at these higher levels has not been successfully tested. Further, we
may have periods of overcapacity because of potential excess supply versus customer demand.

As we and our major suppliers increase our production, we may encounter many risks associated with
our commercial manufacturing such as:

we may experience problems processing, handling and shipping the
higher quantities of oil produced from our expanded facilities; 

the costs of expanding, operating and maintaining our production facilities may exceed our expectations; 

product defects may result; 

lower than anticipated fermentation success rates may result; 

lower downstream processing yields may result; 

environmental and safety problems may result from our production process; and 

regulatory issues relating to the scale-up and operation regarding our production processes may arise. 

If we were to experience any one or more of these problems, there could be a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition, and/ or results of operations.

We have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and have incurred substantial costs
in doing so. If we are unable to increase our revenues from our nutritional oils produced at
these facilities, we may continue to experience excess production capacity and we may be unable to recover
these plant expansion costs.  

In connection with our efforts to alleviate supply constraints with our infant formula licensees
and to prepare for other applications of our products, we have completed a build-out of our
Winchester, Kentucky facility and have completed an extensive expansion of our Kingstree, South
Carolina facility. The build-out at these two facilities was expensive, and our ability to recover
the costs we incurred in the build-outs will depend on increased revenue from our nutritional oils produced at these
facilities. There are no assurances that we will be able to achieve
this goal. We are currently
in and may continue to face a period of excess production capacity. When experiencing excess
capacity, we may be unable to produce the required quantities of oil cost-effectively, which could
have a material adverse effect on our product margins and overall profitability. In addition, in
accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  if
it is estimated that we will not be able to ultimately recover the carrying amounts of the
production assets, we would be required to record an asset impairment write-down. The effect of
such write-down could be material.

Failure to effectively manage our growth could disrupt our operations and prevent us from
generating the revenues and gross profit margins we expect.  

In response to current and expected demand for our nutritional oils, we have expanded our
production capabilities. To manage our growth successfully we must implement, constantly improve
and effectively utilize our operational and financial systems while expanding our production
capacity and workforce. We must also maintain and strengthen the breadth and depth of our current
strategic relationships while developing new relationships. Our existing or planned operational and
financial systems may not be sufficient to support our growth; we may not successfully control
production costs and maintain current and anticipated gross profit levels; and our management may
not be able to effectively identify, manage and exploit existing and emerging market opportunities.
If we do not adequately manage our growth, our business and future revenues will suffer.

29

Experts differ in their opinions on the importance of DHA and/or ARA in infant formula and the
levels of DHA and/or ARA required to achieve health benefits for babies. Some experts feel that
they are not necessary ingredients for infant development and that supplemented
formulas will remain a premium product and never gain widespread acceptance worldwide. If
clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results and certain favorable regulatory
guidelines are not enacted, our future revenues in the infant formula market may be limited.  

Our success in the infant formula industry depends on growing acceptance of our nutritional oils as
necessary or beneficial additives to infant formulas. Notwithstanding existing clinical results
that have demonstrated the beneficial effects of adding our nutritional oils to infant formula,
some experts in the field of infant nutrition do not believe that our nutritional oils are
necessary or that they provide any long-term beneficial effects. There have also been clinical
studies where no beneficial effects have been found, possibly due to dose, duration or other
factors. Experts generally recommend that mothers breastfeed rather than use infant formulas
whether or not they contain our nutritional oils. Some experts also believe that infant formula
without our oils contains sufficient precursor fats that infants can convert into DHA and ARA as
needed. In addition, some physicians are unimpressed by studies showing that infant formulas
fortified with our oils improve infants  cognitive ability at early ages, suggesting that these
results may not carry over to improved results later in life. Due to these differences in opinion,
we are subject to the risk that the use of DHA and/or ARA in infant formula may never gain
widespread acceptance worldwide.

Furthermore, a failure by one or more regulatory authorities to enact guidelines for minimum levels
of DHA and/or ARA for supplementation of infant formula products could result in lower-potency
formula products in specific affected countries which could reduce the market opportunity for DHA
and ARA ingredients. Any regulatory guidelines for infant formula which permit inclusion of DHA
and ARA ingredients containing higher levels of eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) than covered in
Martek s patents could also reduce the market opportunity for Martek s DHA and ARA ingredients in
affected countries.

If it is determined that large amounts of eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) must be added to DHA in
order to achieve optimal health benefits, we may never be able to gain large-scale entry into
the food and beverage market.  

The rationale for supplementing foods and beverages with DHA is to, in part, improve overall
cardiovascular system and/or central nervous system development and health. In September of 2004,
the FDA authorized a qualified health claim that may be utilized for food and beverage products
containing both DHA and EPA relating to the reduction of risk of coronary heart disease. No
minimum amounts for either DHA or EPA were established as prerequisites for the claim. Our DHA-S
oil includes limited amounts of EPA and therefore products containing the DHA-S oil qualify for use
of the qualified health claim. Studies have been completed in the past to investigate the
independent effects of DHA and EPA on health and additional studies may be on-going or conducted in
the future. If the consensus of results from these studies establishes that relatively large
amounts of EPA are required to be supplemented with DHA in order to achieve the optimal health
benefit, then our penetration of the food and beverage market may be limited.

Because infant formula pricing is very competitive, the premium that our oils adds to the cost
of the formula may never allow it to be priced at levels that will allow worldwide acceptance by
consumers.  

Infant formula pricing is very competitive and the market is very sensitive to product price
changes. Because the inclusion of our oils into infant formula may add 10% to 20% to the retail
cost of standard infant formula, there is the risk that our licensees may not be able to sell
supplemented products at prices that will allow them to gain worldwide market acceptance while, at
the same time, remaining profitable. This may lead to price pressure on us. If we have to reduce
our prices, we may not be able to sell products at a price that would enable us to be profitable.
We are prohibited from granting a license to any party for the inclusion of our nutritional oils in
infant formula with payment terms or royalty rates that are more favorable than those provided to
the licensees under the terms of several of our current license agreements without either the
written consent of those current licensees or prospectively offering such new more favorable terms
to those current licensees.

We may need additional capital in the future to continue our research and development efforts,
to conduct product testing, including preclinical and clinical trials, and to market our
products. We may also need significant additional capital to expand our production capability
if market demand for our products continues to grow.  

As of January 31, 2006, we had approximately $36.7 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments as well as $72 million of our revolving credit facility available to meet future
capital requirements. We may require additional capital to fund, among other things, our research
and development, product testing, and marketing activities. We have completed our Kingstree
expansion; however, our ability to meet future demand may require even further expansion of our
production capability for our nutritional oils, which would also require additional capital. The
timing and extent of our additional cash needs will primarily depend on: (a) the timing and extent
of future launches of infant formula products containing our oils by our licensees; (b) the timing
and extent of introductions of DHA into foods and beverages and/or dietary supplements for children
and adults; (c) whether or not we enter into collaborations with third parties to produce our
nutritional oils; and (d) our ability to generate profits from the sales of our nutritional
products.

To continue to fund our growth, we will pursue various sources of funding, which may include debt
financing, equity issuances, asset-based borrowing, lease financing, and collaborative arrangements
with partners. In September 2005, we amended and expanded our secured revolving
credit facility to $135 million and extended the term until September 2010. This debt financing
arrangement requires us to comply with financial covenants, which we may not be able to meet if
demand for our products was to significantly decline, if there was a significant change in our
financial position or if our cash needs are greater than we currently anticipate.

30

Additionally,
funding from other sources may not be available, or may not be available on terms that would be
commercially acceptable or permit us to continue the planned commercialization of our products or
expansion of our production capacity. In August 2004, our shelf registration statement was declared
effective by the SEC. The shelf registration statement enables us to issue debt securities,
preferred stock, common stock and warrants in the aggregate amount of up to $200 million, of which
approximately $110 million is currently available for future issuance. Future equity issuances may
be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we obtain funds through collaborative or strategic
partners, these partners may require us to give them technology or product rights, including patent
rights, that could ultimately diminish our value. If we cannot secure adequate funding, we may need
to scale back our research, development, manufacturing, and commercialization programs, which may
have a material adverse effect on our future business.

The market price of our common stock may experience a high level of volatility due to factors
such as the volatility in the market for biotechnology stocks generally, and the short-term
effect of a number of possible events.  

We are a public growth company in the biosciences sector. As frequently occurs among these
companies, the market price for our common stock may experience a high level of volatility. During
the fifty-two week period ending January 31, 2006, our common stock traded between $70.50 and
$23.14 per share. During the fifty-two week period ending January 31, 2005, our common stock traded
between $73.36 and $38.50 per share. The following are examples of items that may significantly
impact the market price for our common stock:

announcements of technical innovations, new commercial products and product launches by us or our competitors; 

arrangements or strategic partnerships by us or our competitors; 

announcements of license agreements, acquisitions or strategic alliances; 

announcements of sales by us or our competitors; 

patent or other intellectual property achievements or adverse developments; 

quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations; 

failure or delay in expansion and continuous operation regarding our
commercial manufacturing or failure or delay of our third-party manufacturers in expansion
and continuous operation regarding their commercial manufacturing; 

failure to enter into favorable third-party manufacturing agreements; 

regulatory decisions (approvals or disapprovals) or changes concerning our products and our competitors  products; 

announcements related to threatened, new or existing litigation; 

changes in our estimates of financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; and 

general market conditions for growth companies and bioscience companies. 

Because we may experience a high level of volatility in our common stock, you should not invest in
our stock unless you are prepared to absorb a significant loss of your capital. At any given time,
you may not be able to sell your shares at a price that you think is acceptable.

The market liquidity for our stock is relatively low. As of January 31, 2006, we had 32,064,751
shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock during the
fifty-two week period ending January 31, 2006 was approximately 1.1 million shares. Although a more
active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock may
affect your ability to sell at a price that is satisfactory to you.

If significant shares eligible for future sales are sold, the result may depress our stock price
by increasing the supply of our shares in the market at a time when demand may be limited.  

As of January 31, 2006, we had 32,064,751 shares of common stock outstanding and stock options
outstanding to purchase an aggregate of approximately 3.9 million shares of common stock. Of these
options, approximately 3.5 million were exercisable at March 6, 2006. Furthermore, we have filed a
universal shelf registration statement with the SEC, which was declared effective in August 2004,
pursuant to which we may issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock and warrants to
purchase debt securities, preferred stock or common stock in an aggregate amount of up to $200
million, of which approximately $110 million is currently available for future issuance. To the
extent that these options for our common stock are exercised or we issue additional shares to raise
capital, the increase in the number of our outstanding shares of common stock may adversely affect
the price for our common stock. This could hurt our ability to raise capital through the sale of
equity securities. If we continue to require additional outside sources of capital to finance,
among other things, our research and development, product testing and the manufacturing and
marketing of our products, we may need to raise additional capital through the sale of equity
securities.

31

We have agreed to issue and register for resale up to 1,931,853 additional shares, to former
OmegaTech stockholders and option holders pursuant to our Agreement and Plan of Merger with
OmegaTech, if certain regulatory and financial milestones were achieved by October 31, 2004. The
representative for these interest holders has asserted that shares related to two of these
milestones should be issued, an assertion with which we do not agree. While we have not resolved
this matter, a substantial number of these additional shares would be issued and become eligible
for resale if it were determined that these two milestones were achieved. See Item 1 of Part II of
this Form 10-Q,  Legal Proceedings,  for further discussion. The market price of our common stock
could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or
the perception that these sales could occur, which could limit your ability to sell at a price
satisfactory to you.

Our business would be harmed if we fail to comply with applicable good manufacturing practices
as required by the FDA.  

In connection with the manufacture of certain of our products, we are required to adhere to
applicable current  good manufacturing practice  ( GMP ) requirements as required by the FDA. GMP
regulations specify component and product testing standards, control quality assurance requirements
and records and other documentation controls. As the manufacturer of DHA and ARA that are marketed
as dietary supplements and used as ingredients in infant formulas sold in the United States, and
may be used in food and beverages, we are subject to GMP and various other requirements applicable
to such products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to manufacture our
nutritional oils in accordance with relevant dietary supplement and infant formula requirements for
commercial use. Ongoing compliance with GMP and other applicable regulatory requirements is
monitored through periodic inspections by state and federal agencies, including the FDA and
comparable agencies in other countries. A determination that we are in violation of such GMP and
other regulations could lead to an interruption of our production output and the imposition of
civil penalties, including fines, product recalls or product seizures, and, in the most egregious
cases, criminal sanctions.

Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially
applicable federal and state regulations.  

Our business is subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Current products and products in
development cannot be sold if we or our customers do not obtain or maintain regulatory approvals.
While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot assure you that we
or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state
regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations a range of actions could result,
materially affecting our business and financial condition , including, but not limited to, the
failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes,
including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions.

Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims and recalls, and our insurance may
not provide adequate coverage.  

Our development, manufacture and marketing of products involve an inherent risk of exposure to
product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity. In
addition, as only a small amount of our oils resides in our customers  end product, a recall of our
oils could impact a much larger recall of our customers  end products. Insurance coverage is
expensive and difficult to obtain, and we may be unable to obtain coverage in the future on
acceptable terms, if at all. Although we currently maintain product liability and recall insurance
for our products in the amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable, we cannot be certain that
the coverage limits of our insurance policies or those of our strategic partners will be adequate.
If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost, if a product liability claim
is made against us, or if there is a product recall, whether fully covered by insurance or not, our
business and future sales could be adversely impacted.

Our opportunity in the U.S. infant formula market may be limited by the renewal rate of
supplemented formulas into the Women, Infants and Children program.  

We estimate that of the total current annual U.S. market opportunity for sales of supplemented
infant formula, approximately half represents Women, Infant and Children ( WIC )-funded sales. WIC
is a federal grant program that is state-administered for the benefit of low-income nutritionally
at-risk women, infants and children. Most WIC state agencies provide only one brand of infant
formula to its participants, depending on which company has the rebate contract in a particular
state. Currently, WIC programs in the majority of states offer term infant formula supplemented with our oils
and WIC programs in all 50 states and the District of Columbia have adopted
certain specialty infant formula products supplemented with our oils. If supplemented formulas are
removed from WIC programs that previously adopted them or if any of our licensees fail to renew, in
a timely fashion, their contract awards from
WIC agencies for the adoption of a supplemented infant formula, then our future revenues from
supplemented infant formula sales in the U.S. would be limited.

32

Our manufacturing process involves the handling of hazardous materials and the mishandling of
these hazardous materials could result in substantial costs and harm to our business.  

In connection with our research and manufacturing activities, we utilize some hazardous materials.
We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage,
handling and management of hazardous materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance
with these laws and regulations could be significant. Moreover, we could be subject to loss of our
permits, government fines or penalties and/or other adverse governmental or private party action if
such hazardous materials are used, stored, handled, emitted or otherwise managed in violation of
law or any permit. In addition, we could be subject to liability if hazardous materials are
released into the environment. A substantial fine, penalty or judgment, the payment of significant
environmental remediation costs or property or personal injury damages, or the loss of a permit or
other authorization to operate or engage in our ordinary course of business could result in
material, unanticipated expenses and the possible inability to satisfy customer demand for our
nutritional oils.

We learned in March 2004 that the federal Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ), utilizing
personnel from its Criminal Investigation Division, had asked questions of current and former
Martek employees relating to a March 12, 2003 explosion that occurred at a public wastewater
treatment plant in Winchester, Kentucky and relating to n-hexane. Current and former employees have
testified before a federal grand jury that is investigating the matter. We further learned in
April 2005 that the EPA has interviewed two additional employees of Martek and has requested
information from the Winchester Municipal Utilities Commission on a number of matters including the
March 12, 2003 explosion.

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could result in losses.  

Beginning in January of 2004, our purchases of ARA from DSM s Capua, Italy plant were denominated
in euros. Fluctuations in the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate can adversely impact our cost of ARA
oil and our gross margins. To reduce the risk of unpredictable changes in these costs, we may,
from time to time, enter into forward foreign exchange contracts. However, due to the variability
of timing and amount of payments under these contracts, the forward foreign exchange contracts may
not mitigate the potential adverse impact on our financial results and in fact may themselves cause
financial harm. We have entered into foreign currency forward contracts with outstanding notional
values aggregating approximately 23.6 million euros at January 31, 2006. The terms of these
contracts are from 30 to 120 days.

We
are a defendant in a putative class action lawsuit which, if determined adversely, could have
a material adverse affect on us.  

As described in detail in this report under Part II Item 1,  Legal Proceedings,  we, our Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer were named as defendants in putative
class action lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. The
District Court consolidated these lawsuits into one action. The consolidated complaint generally
seeks recovery of unspecified damages for persons who purchased our shares during the period from
December 9, 2004 through April 27, 2005. The complaint asserts claims under federal securities
laws arising from statements made in or omitted from our registration statement for our January
2005 public offering and several public statements made by the defendants during the purported
class period, and alleges that we and the individually named defendants made materially false and
misleading public statements and failed to disclose material facts necessary in order to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading,
concerning our business and prospects.

We are vigorously defending against the plaintiffs  claims. In this regard, we have filed a motion
to dismiss plaintiffs  complaint. At this stage, management is unable to predict its outcome or
its ultimate effect, if any, on our financial condition. However, we expect that the costs and
expenses related to this litigation may be significant. Although we have director and officer
liability insurance policies (which, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, also provide
 entity coverage  for us for this litigation) in place, we are responsible for certain costs and
expenses relating to the lawsuits. Also, a judgment in or settlement of this action could exceed
our insurance coverage. If we are not successful in defending this action, our business and
financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, whether or not we are successful,
the defense of this action may divert the attention of our management and other resources that
would otherwise be engaged in running our business.

33

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. 

On November 15, 2005, in reliance on the exemption from registration provided in Section 4(2) of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, we issued 31,496 shares of our common stock to the holder
of a warrant upon the exercise of that warrant at a price of $19.05 per share.

Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities. 

Not Applicable.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. 

None.

Item 5. Other Information. 

None.

Item 6. Exhibits. 

* 
       
     Filed or furnished herewith. 

Confidential treatment was requested for certain portions of this agreement. The confidential
portions were filed separately with the Commission. 

34

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

MARTEK BIOSCIENCES CORPORATION   
                            (Registrant) 

Date:
 March 13, 2006 

/s/ Peter L. Buzy 

Peter L. Buzy, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

35

<EX-10.01>
 2
 w18426exv10w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.01

exv10w01 

Exhibit 10.01 

First Amendment to the ARA Alliance, Purchase, and Production Agreement

This First Amendment to the ARA Alliance, Purchase, and Production Agreement ( First
Amendment ) is made and entered into as of the 31st day of December ,  2005 ( Signing Date of the
First Amendment ), but with an effect as of and though entered into on January 1, 2005 ( Effective
Date of the First Amendment ), by and between  DSM Food Specialties B.V. , a  Besloten Vennootschap 
organized under the laws of the Netherlands with its principal place of business at A. Fleminglaan
1, 2613 AX Delft, the Netherlands ( DSM ), and  MARTEK BIOSCIENCES CORPORATION , a corporation
organized under the laws of the State of Delaware with its principal place of business at 6480
Dobbin Road, Columbia, Maryland 21045 ( Martek ), who, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree
as follows:

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS  Martek and DSM have previously entered into an ARA Alliance, Purchase, and Production
Agreement dated April 19, 2004 pursuant to which Martek and DSM entered into cross-licensing,
purchase, and production arrangements (the  Agreement ) related to arachidonic acid, and have
entered into a related August, 2004 Letter agreement; and

WHEREAS  Martek and DSM now wish to amend, clarify and expand certain provisions in the
Agreement as set forth herein.

NOW, THEREFORE , effective as of the Effective Date of the First Amendment, the parties hereto
agree to amend the Agreement as follows:

Capitalized terms, unless otherwise defined herein, shall have the meaning given in the
Agreement.

1.    Definitions and Schedules   .    

A.  Section 2 of the Agreement is hereby amended to add the following definitions:

2.16A  August, 2004 Letter  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3A.

2.20A  Broth  shall mean the liquid ARA fermentation product collected after
pasteurization and prior to Down Stream Processing and which conforms to the Specifications
set forth in Schedule 2.20A.

2.23A  Capital Related Costs  shall mean all documented capital costs associated with
the Phase II Belvidere Build-Out including design and engineering, site preparation and
demolition costs, construction costs including all costs associated with preparing equipment
for commercial fermentation use, purchase of new equipment and the allocation of certain
existing fermentation equipment.

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

1

2.23B  Capua Expansion  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3A(a).

2.43A  DSM Capital Contribution  shall be the total Capital Related Costs less the
Martek Capital Contribution.

2.62A  Expansion Shortfall Ratio  shall have the meaning set forth in Section
3.3A(b)(iv).

2.66A  Fine Granulates  shall mean the dried ARA fermentation product with a fine,
granular particle size which is smaller than Biomass and which conforms to the
Specifications set forth in Schedule 2.66A.

2.74A  Guarantee Remainder  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3A(b)(ii).

2.74B  Guaranteed Amount  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3A(b)(ii).

2.96A  Martek Capital Contribution  shall have the meaning set forth in Section
3.3A(g).

2.98A  Martek DSP Capabilities  shall have the meaning set forth in Schedule 3.3A(a).

2.125A  " Phase II Belvidere Build-Out  shall have the meaning set forth in Section
3.3A(a).

2.125B  Planned Expansion  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3A.

2.140A  Recoupment Period  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3A(b)(i).

2.142A  Revised Guaranteed Amount  shall have the meaning set forth in Section
3.3A(b)(iv).

2.144A  Signing Date of the First Amendment  shall mean December 31, 2005.

B.  Sections 2.14, 2.37 and 2.146 of the Agreement are hereby deleted in their entirety and replaced
with the following:

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

2

2.14  " ARA Products  shall mean Biomass, Fine Granulates, Broth, Soaps, Crude Oil,
Finished Oil, Spent Biomass and ARA produced in any other form and/or made by any process
wherein the ARA content is greater than * of total fatty acids.

2.37  Down Stream Processing , or  DSP , shall mean the process of harvesting, recovery
and drying of Biomass.

2.146  " Specifications  shall mean: (a) the product specifications for the respective
ARA Products, as set forth on Schedules 2.17, 2.20A, 2.28, 2.66A and 2.67, as applicable,
which shall be deemed in all cases to require compliance with cGMPs, and the requirements
for kosher certification by the Orthodox Union and for Halal certification by the Islamic
Food and Nutrition Council of America or any other organization agreed upon by the parties
for all of a party s respective facilities and the facilities of any subcontractor that are
used to manufacture, produce and/or package any ARA Products; (b) quality control methods
and methods of analysis with respect to Biomass, Crude Oil, Fine Granulates, Broth and
Finished Oil; and (c) other requirements and specifications for ARA Products as set forth in
this Agreement, as amended from time to time by the Committee pursuant to Section 8 or
otherwise by mutual written agreement of the parties.

C.  Schedules 2.20A, 2.66A, 3.3A and 3.3A(a) attached hereto are hereby added to the Agreement as
schedules thereto. In addition, Schedules 2.17, 2.28, 4.2(a), and 4.6 to the Agreement are hereby
deleted in their entirety and replaced, respectively, with Schedules 2.17, 2.28, 4.2(a), and 4.6
attached hereto.

2.     Intentionally Left Blank   

3.    Modifications to Section 3.2 of the Agreement   .  The following sections are hereby
inserted as new Sections 3.2(e), 3.2(f) and 3.2(g) of the Agreement:

(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth above in Sections 3.2(a)-(d) of
this Agreement, the parties agree that, until the new drying line of the Phase II Belvidere
Build-Out portion of the Planned Expansion (as defined in Section 3.3A) is operating, Martek
shall be permitted to include Broth purchase quantities in its good faith forecast as
referred to in Section 3.5 of this Agreement. The parties agree, however, that in no event
shall any Martek Purchase Order amount to more than * fermenter tanks of Broth per week and
in no event shall DSM ship to Martek more than * fermenter tank of Broth every 36 hours,
unless otherwise agreed to by the parties in writing.

(f) The Sections in this Agreement referring to the production and delivery of ARA
Products by DSM to Martek, such as but not limited to quality and verification and amounts
payable, shall apply  mutatis   mutandis  to the production and delivery of
Broth.

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

3

(g) DSM shall use its reasonable commercial efforts to complete the Planned Expansion
in the timeframe set forth in Schedule 3.3A(a) and Martek shall use its reasonable
commercial efforts to develop applicable DSP capabilities to enable it to purchase the
number of batches of Broth from DSM, pending DSM s completion of the new drying line (DSP)
portion of the Phase II Belvidere Build-Out of the Planned Expansion, as is set out in
Schedule 3.3A(a).

4.    Amendment to Section 3.8 of the Agreement   .  Section 3.8(a) of the Agreement is hereby
deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:

(a) Subject to the provisions of Sections 3.5(c) and 3.5(d), during a month, DSM shall
deliver quantities of ARA Products covered by the Martek Purchase Order for the month on the
later of (i) the last business day of the month or (ii) ten (10) days after receipt of
delivery instructions from Martek. All such shipments shall be FOB or FCA, as applicable,
DSM s (or DSM s Third Party Toll Manufacturer s) facility. For purposes hereof, each order
shall be deemed to have been  delivered , and risk of loss with respect to each such
shipment shall pass from DSM to Martek, upon delivery of the shipment by DSM to a carrier
agreed upon by the Committee for transport to the location specified in the Martek Purchase
Order, and Martek shall have the right and obligation to insure such shipment from and after
such delivery. Notwithstanding the foregoing, DSM shall retain title to all shipments of ARA
Products covered by the Martek Purchase Order until payment is received, whereupon title
shall pass to Martek.

5.    Amendments to Section 4 of the Agreement   . 

A . Section 4.5 of the Agreement is hereby amended to add the following sentence at the end of such
Section:

In addition, Martek shall be permitted to have its technical personnel periodically
visit the site at Belvidere to assist DSM in matters pertaining to ARA production at
Martek s discretion and to provide support, to share technical experience, and/or to
monitor ARA production activities. The visits shall be with reasonable notice to DSM,
with the exact hours of such visits to be mutually agreed upon. Martek shall assure
that, during such visits, Martek personnel shall adhere to the site s rules and
regulations and the instructions of DSM personnel.

B.  The last sentence of Section 4.6 of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced
with the following sentence:

Changes other than the major changes as described in Schedule 4.6 shall not require
pre-approval by the Committee prior to implementation by either party, but each of Martek
and DSM agrees to maintain a written record of such other changes it makes, which record
will be readily accessible or provided to the other party for review upon the

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

4

request of such other party, and which will be reported at the next succeeding quarterly
meeting of the Committee.

6.    Amendments to Sections 6.1 and 6.15 of the Agreement   . 

A.  Section 6.1(c)(ii) of the Agreement is hereby amended by inserting  in writing  in the last
sentence, between  agree  and  on an amount  and by inserting  and on any other relevant terms or
conditions  at the end of such sentence immediately prior to the period. The following sentence is
hereby inserted at the end of Section 6.1(c)(ii) of the Agreement, as the last sentence thereof:

In addition, DSM shall obtain written approval from Martek, such approval to not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed, prior to locking in a fixed price or hedge for all or any
portion of its natural gas and electricity in connection with directly or indirectly
producing ARA Products for Martek, even if Martek has not requested such action.

B.  Sections 6.1(e) and  ( f) of the Agreement are hereby deleted in their entirety and replaced with
the following:

(e) The Fixed Budget Price per Unit of ARA produced at DSM s Capua facility for 2004 is
*, consisting of a DSM Mark Up per Unit of ARA of * and DSM Costs per Unit of ARA of *.
This Fixed Budget Price for Capua production for 2004 is based on the production by DSM and
purchase by Martek of ARA Products in the form of Crude Oil. For 2004, the Martek Budgeted
Volume for ARA Products purchased by Martek from DSM produced at the Capua facility is *
Units of ARA. For 2004, the Technical Capacity for DSM s Capua facility is * Units of ARA.
For 2004, the Practical Capacity for DSM s Capua facility is * Units of ARA. The Fixed
Budget Price per Unit of ARA produced at DSM s Capua facility for 2005 is *, consisting of a
DSM Mark Up per Unit of ARA of * and DSM Costs per Unit of ARA of *. This Fixed Budget
Price for Capua production for 2005 is based on the production by DSM and purchase by Martek
of ARA Products in the form of Crude Oil. For 2005, the Martek Budgeted Volume for ARA
Products purchased by Martek from DSM produced at the Capua facility is * Units of ARA. For
2005, the Technical Capacity for DSM s Capua facility is * Units of ARA. For 2005, the
Practical Capacity for DSM s Capua facility is * Units of ARA. The prices set forth in this
Section 6.1(e) are based on the yield assumptions set forth in Schedule 6.15.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Fixed Budget Price per Unit
of ARA for the first * Units of ARA produced at DSM s Capua facility following January 1,
2004 shall be *.

(f) The Fixed Budget Price per Unit of ARA produced at DSM s Belvidere facility for
2004 is *, comprising a DSM Mark Up per Unit of ARA of * and * and DSM Costs per Unit of ARA
of *. The Fixed Budget Price per Unit of ARA produced at DSM s Belvidere facility for 2005
is *, comprising a DSM Mark Up per Unit of ARA of  *  and * and DSM Costs per Unit of ARA of
*. This Fixed Budget Price for Belvidere

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

5

production for 2005 is based on the production by DSM and purchase by Martek of ARA Products
in the form of Biomass, Broth or Fine Granules. For all Broth shipments to Martek, DSM shall
pay for *% of the costs of trucking the Broth from Belvidere to a third party or to a Martek
plant as determined by Martek for drying until the new drying line of the Phase II Belvidere
Build-Out portion of the Planned Expansion is completed .  For 2004 the Martek Budgeted Volume
for ARA Products purchased by Martek from DSM produced at the Belvidere facility is * Units
of ARA. For 2004 the Technical Capacity for DSM s Belvidere facility is * Units of ARA .  For
2004 the Practical Capacity for DSM s Belvidere facility is * Units of ARA .  For 2005, the
Martek Budgeted Volume for ARA Products purchased by Martek from DSM produced at the
Belvidere facility is  *  Units of ARA. For 2005, the Technical Capacity for DSM s Belvidere
facility is * Units of ARA. For 2005, the Practical Capacity for DSM s Belvidere facility is
* Units of ARA. The prices set forth in this Section 6.1(f) are based on the yield
assumptions set forth in Schedule 6.15.

C.  The text following the heading of Section 6.15 of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its
entirety and replaced with the following:

The DSM Costs per Unit of ARA and the DSM Mark Up per Unit of ARA are based on the average
standard extraction and RBD yields set forth in Schedule 6.15. The Fixed Budget Price per
Unit of ARA shall be adjusted by agreement of the Committee to reflect changes in such
yields due to changes in the Biomass, Crude Oil or changes in Extraction or RBD processes.

7.    Amendments to Section 6.6 of the Agreement   .  Section 6.6 of the Agreement is hereby
deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:

6.6   Startup Costs  . The parties acknowledge and agree that DSM will be likely to
incur certain costs in connection with the commencement of operations of expansions at DSM s
Capua and Belvidere facilities as well as expansions of production of ARA Products at new
sites. These costs are likely to include costs that are directly related to certain
inefficiencies in producing ARA Products at a new production facility (including, for
example, batches of Biomass that do not meet the relevant Specifications) and other costs
(the  Production Startup Costs ).

(a) The parties agree that DSM shall be responsible for, and not charge to Martek, up
to * of Production Startup Costs related to the Phase 1 Belvidere Build-out and such costs
shall be an Excluded Cost. Martek shall reimburse DSM, in twelve (12) equal quarterly
installments, the amount that the actual Production Startup Costs incurred by DSM for the
Phase 1 Belvidere Build-out exceed *, but in no event shall the total amount to be
reimbursed by Martek pursuant hereto exceed one million US Dollars ($1,000,000.00). DSM
shall also be responsible for, and not charge to Martek, Production Startup Costs related to
the Phase 1 Belvidere Build-out that are in excess of * and such costs shall be an Excluded
Cost.

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

6

(b) The parties agree that all Production Start-up Costs related to the Phase II
Belvidere Build-Out are to be absorbed by DSM and shall be an Excluded Cost. In addition,
any Capital Related Costs related to the Phase II Belvidere Build-Out are to be absorbed by
DSM and, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, shall be an Excluded Cost.

(c) All Production Start-up Costs related to the Capua Expansion are to be absorbed by
DSM and shall be an Excluded Cost.

(d) Production Startup Costs for expansions other than the expansions described above
and that are agreed to and approved by the Committee shall be billed separately to Martek in
a manner agreed upon by the Committee and any such Production Startup Costs shall be an
Excluded Cost.

8.    Amendments to Section 6.18 of the Agreement   .  Section 6.18 of the Agreement shall be
amended as follows:

A.  The last sentence of Section 6.18 (a) of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the following:

The parties hereby agree that the plans for the Phase 1 Belvidere Build-out constitute
Approved Expansion Plans and that the Phase 1 Belvidere Build-out subaccount of the Break Up
Fee Account shall reflect an initial balance in respect thereof of *. The parties hereby
agree that the plans for the Planned Expansion (as defined in Section 3.3A) constitute
Approved Expansion Plans and that the Planned Expansion subaccount of the Break Up Fee
Account shall reflect an initial balance in respect thereof of * of the maximum
Guaranteed Amount, as determined pursuant to Section 3.3A(b) or, if applicable, any lesser
Revised Guaranteed Amount as defined in Section 3.3A(b)(iv).

B.  The following text is hereby inserted at the end of Section 6.18(c), replacing the period:

provided, however, that with respect to the Planned Expansion subaccount, Martek shall
instead pay to DSM any Guarantee Remainder as specified in Section 3.3A(f) upon any such expiration
or termination.

9.    Amendments to Section 9.4 of the Agreement   .  Section 9.4(e) of the Agreement is hereby
amended by (i) inserting after the last word of the third bullet point ( i.e. ,  Agreement )
the characters   or  and deleting the period after such last word and (ii) inserting a fourth
bullet point as follows:

Claims under this Agreement arising out of, in connection with or based on a breach by a
party of the provisions set forth in Section 10.7(a) or Section 10.7(b); or each party s
obligation to indemnify and hold harmless the other party, its Affiliates and their 

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

7

respective directors, officers, employees and agents from and against Losses pursuant to
Section 10.7(b) of this Agreement.

10.    Amendments to Section 9.5   .  Section 9.5 of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its
entirety and replaced with the following:

9.5   Limitation of Liability  .

(a) EXCEPT FOR THE LOST PROFITS PAYABLE BY MARTEK PURSUANT TO SECTION 9.4(c), LOST
PROFITS PAYABLE BY DSM PURSUANT TO SECTION 9.4(d)(ii) AND ROYALTIES PAYABLE BY DSM PURSUANT
TO SECTION 9.4(d)(iii), IN NO EVENT SHALL EITHER PARTY BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY FOR LOSS
OF PROFITS OR INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES INCURRED BY THE OTHER
PARTY AND ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT FOR ANY CAUSE OF ACTION OF ANY
KIND EVEN IF THE OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

(b) Nothing contained in this Agreement shall preclude either DSM or Martek from
asserting any claim for Losses against any third party; provided, however, that neither DSM
nor Martek shall assert any claim for Losses arising out of or in connection with this
Agreement against any third party, including without limitation any subcontractor of the
other party, if and to the extent that either (i) DSM or Martek, as the case may be, shall
be entitled to assert the same claim for Losses against the other party or (ii) such other
party is required, pursuant to a legally binding obligation in effect at the time of such
Losses, to indemnify such third party against such Losses if such third party were to pay
them to DSM or Martek, as the case may be.

11.    Amendments to Section 10.1 of the Agreement   .  Section 10.1 of the Agreement is hereby
deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:

10.1   Non-Solicitation   . 

(a) DSM agrees that, during the term of this Agreement, neither it nor any of its
Affiliates shall, directly or indirectly, (i) solicit, recruit or induce, or attempt to
solicit, recruit or induce, any person who is an employee of Martek or any of its Affiliates
to leave his or her employment or engagement with Martek or any of its Affiliates or (ii)
employ, hire or engage, or cause to employ, hire or engage, any person who is or was within
the previous six (6) months an employee of Martek or any of its Affiliates, in either case
without the prior written consent of Martek; provided that general advertisements by DSM or
its Affiliates for employment not directed at employees or former employees of Martek or its
Affiliates, and any employment resulting therefrom, shall not be a violation of this Section
10.1(a).

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

8

(b) Martek agrees that, during the term of this Agreement, neither it nor any of its
Affiliates shall, directly or indirectly, (i) solicit, recruit or induce, or attempt to
solicit, recruit or induce, any person who is an employee of DSM or any of its Affiliates to
leave his or her employment or engagement with DSM or any of its Affiliates or (ii) employ,
hire or engage, or cause to employ, hire or engage, any person who is or was within the
previous six (6) months an employee of DSM or any of its Affiliates, in either case without
the prior written consent of DSM; provided that general advertisements by Martek or its
Affiliates for employment not directed at employees or former employees of DSM or its
Affiliates, and any employment resulting therefrom, shall not be a violation of this Section
10.1(b).

12.    Amendments to Section 10.7 of the Agreement   .  The title of Section 10.7 of the
Agreement is hereby amended to be  Assignment, Delegation and Subrogation; Insurance Inspection ,
the characters  (a)  are hereby inserted between the title of Section 10.7 and the first word of
the paragraph following such title ( i.e. ,  Neither ), and the following paragraphs are
hereby inserted immediately following such paragraph as subsection (b), subsection (c) and
subsection (d) of Section 10.7:

(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, neither party shall subrogate to
an insurance carrier or similar entity any right it may have to claim or recover Losses from
(i) the other party arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, or (ii) a third
party arising out of or in connection with this Agreement to the extent the other party is
required, pursuant to a legally binding obligation in effect at the time of such Losses, to
indemnify such third party against such Losses if such third party were to pay them, in each
case, without the prior written consent of such other party. Each party shall indemnify and
hold harmless the other party, its Affiliates and their respective directors, officers,
employees and agents from and against all Losses, including reasonable counsel fees, that
such other party suffers or incurs as a result of any subrogation made by it in violation of
the terms of this Agreement; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Section
10.7(b) shall be deemed to relieve such other party from any liability arising as a result
of any breach or failure to perform under this Agreement.

(c) In the event that an insurance carrier or similar entity gives notice to a party
that it has been subrogated to the rights of the other party and that such carrier or entity
intends to exercise such rights against it, then such party receiving such notice shall give
the other party prompt written notice thereof.

(d) Upon reasonable notice during regular working hours, representatives of each of
DSM s and Martek s insurance carriers may inspect the manufacturing facilities used by or
for the respective parties in the manufacture of ARA for (i) the purpose of inspections or
loss control visits relative to insurance being secured or validated or (ii) assessing the
validity of an insurance claim and/or the extent of damage under an insurance claim
submitted by DSM or Martek, respectively.

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

9

13.    New Section 3.3A   First Planned Expansion  . The following is added as a new Section
3.3A to the Agreement, inserted immediately following the end of Section 3.3:

3.3A   First Planned Expansion   .  The parties acknowledge that, pursuant to Section
3.3(c) of this Agreement, Martek has requested in a letter dated August 25, 2004 (the
 August, 2004 Letter ), attached as Schedule 3.3A, that DSM expand its ARA production
capabilities and has offered to guarantee to DSM that DSM will recoup its investment in such
expansion in accordance with such Section. In connection with the guarantee that Martek is
to provide pursuant to Section 3.3(c)(iii) and any Martek Expansion to be permitted pursuant
to Section 3.3(c)(iv), the parties wish to clarify that, solely with respect to the
expansion to be made at the Capua and Belvidere facilities in response to the August, 2004
Letter (the  Planned Expansion ), the following shall apply:

(a) The Planned Expansion shall include those efforts to be undertaken and/or equipment
to be installed at the Capua and Belvidere facilities as further described in Schedule
3.3A(a). That portion of the foregoing relevant to the Belvidere facility shall be referred
to as the  Phase II Belvidere Build-Out  and that portion of the foregoing relevant to the
Capua facility shall be referred to as the  Capua Expansion .

(b) The guarantee pursuant to Section 3.3(c)(iii) of this Agreement will be effectuated
as follows:

(i) The twelve quarter period (the  Recoupment Period ) referenced in Section
3.3(c)(iii) shall commence on January 1, 2006.

(ii) The amount of DSM s investment in expanding its ARA production capacities
for the Phase II Belvidere Build-Out that will be guaranteed by Martek pursuant to
Section 3.3(c)(iii) (the  Guaranteed Amount ) shall be equal to the DSM Capital
Contribution. Subject to Section 3.3A(e) below, if the total aggregate DSM Mark Up
paid to DSM for such Recoupment Period and pursuant to Section 3.3A(b)(v) does not
meet or exceed the Guaranteed Amount, Martek shall pay to DSM the balance of such
Guaranteed Amount (the  Guarantee Remainder ) within thirty (30) days of the end of
the Recoupment Period; provided, however, that in no event shall the Guaranteed
Amount exceed US$40 million unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing by Martek.

(iii) Martek shall be entitled to credit the full amount of any Guarantee
Remainder actually paid to DSM against any and all DSM Mark Up amounts that become
due to DSM pursuant to invoices received after the Recoupment Period for ARA
Products.

(iv) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Guaranteed Amount, as defined above,
shall be reduced as of January 1, 2007, if and only if (a) the maximum

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

10

average monthly production and delivery of Units of ARA Products meeting
Specifications from Phase II Belvidere Build-Out that is achieved for any month
prior to such date, based on the average monthly production and delivery of Units of
ARA Products meeting Specifications over any three-month period prior to July 1,
2007, is less than * Units of ARA and Martek has placed Martek Purchase Orders
sufficient to require production from Phase II Belvidere Build-Out equal to or
greater than * Units of ARA per month, or (b) Martek Purchase Orders have not been
sufficient to require Phase II Belvidere Build-Out to produce an average of * Units
of ARA per month and, following a request by Martek, the Committee determines the
average monthly Technical Capacity to be expected from Phase II Belvidere Build-Out,
and such amount is expected to be less than * Units of ARA, in which case the
Guaranteed Amount shall be reduced by a percentage equal to one minus the ratio of
the actual maximum average monthly production and delivery of Units of ARA from
Phase II Belvidere Build-Out that is achieved or the Technical Capacity determined
by the Committee to be achievable, as the case may be, as of the end of such
twenty-four (24) month period versus * Units of ARA (such percentage to be the
 Expansion Shortfall Ratio , and such revised Guaranteed Amount shall be referred to
as the  Revised Guaranteed Amount  for purposes of Section 6.18 of this Agreement.

(v) The Guaranteed Amount, whether or not adjusted as provided above, shall in
all cases be reduced by the amount of DSM Mark Up paid on Martek s purchases of ARA
Products in calendar years during the period from and after January 1, 2005 and
continuing through and including the last day of the Recoupment Period exceeding (i)
* Units of ARA for calendar year 2005, (ii) * Units of ARA for Calendar year 2006,
and (iii) * Units of ARA for each calendar year thereafter.

(vi) The parties acknowledge and agree that the obligation of Martek to pay DSM
such Guaranteed Amount as set forth in this Section 3.3A(b) shall be deemed
sufficient to meet Martek s obligation to guarantee DSM s investment in the Planned
Expansion pursuant to Section 3.3(c)(iii) of this Agreement.

(c) In support of the Planned Expansion, DSM has provided to Martek a detailed schedule
and cost estimates of the Planned Expansion plans and shall update such information monthly
from and after the Signing Date of the First Amendment. DSM shall also permit Martek to be
reasonably involved in Belvidere Phase II Build-Out planning/production meetings if desired
by Martek and shall give Martek at least ten (10) days  notice of relevant meetings whenever
possible.

(d) The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that the expanded volume expected from the
Planned Expansion (* Units of ARA on an annualized basis, which is *% of the Technical
Capacity of the Planned Expansion) fully satisfies the expanded volume requested by Martek
in the August, 2004 Letter, and that any specified volume

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

11

requirements of such letter shall be deemed replaced by such * Units of expanded volume
expected from the Planned Expansion for purposes of Section 3.3(c) of this Agreement. The
parties further acknowledge and agree that, with respect to the Planned Expansion, any
Martek Expansion to be permitted pursuant to Section 3.3(c)(iv) of this Agreement shall be
limited to * Units of ARA times the Expansion Shortfall Ratio calculated as provided in
3.3A(b) above, and that no Martek Expansion shall be permitted pursuant to Section
3.3(c)(iv) with respect to the Planned Expansion if, as of any time prior to January 1,
2007, DSM is able to produce and deliver to Martek ARA Products on a monthly average basis
in an amount equal to or greater than * Units of ARA, or if, as of January 1, 2007, DSM has
been unable to produce and deliver to Martek ARA Products on a monthly average basis in an
amount equal to or greater than * Units of ARA but DSM is able to meet Martek Purchase
Orders of ARA Products for the three (3) month period beginning January 1, 2007.

(e) Martek s obligation to pay any Guarantee Remainder to DSM pursuant to Section
3.3A(b) above shall expire on January 1, 2010 if the Recoupment Period has not ended prior
to such date, and on such date the Guaranteed Amount, if any, shall be reduced to zero.
Such obligation to pay the Guarantee Remainder shall also expire upon any early termination
or expiration of this Agreement.

(f) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a payment by Martek to DSM is required pursuant
to Section 6.18(c) of this Agreement upon termination or expiration of this Agreement, such
payment shall be equal to the greater of (x) any unpaid Guarantee Remainder as of such
termination or expiration date and (y) the balance of the Planned Expansion subaccount of
the Break Up Fee Account less any portion of any Guarantee Remainder actually paid and
against which a credit has not been taken as permitted in 3.3A(b)(iii) above.

(g)  Martek Capital Contribution.   The parties agree that Martek will pay to DSM
the sum of three million US Dollars ($3,000,000) in respect of the Capital Related Costs
(the  Martek Capital Contribution ). As a means to incentivize performance of the Belvidere
facility, the amount will be payable once the total output of the Belvidere facility,
starting from January 1, 2005, has reached * Units of ARA in the aggregate. Martek shall pay
such amount in immediately available funds and within fifteen (15) days following the date
on which DSM has notified Martek in writing of such event. The amount of the Martek Capital
Contribution shall be considered an Excluded Cost and shall not be part of any Fixed Budget
Price or be billed to Martek through future depreciation expenses or in any other manner.

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

12

(h)  Martek Purchase Commitment . Martek hereby agrees to purchase the total ARA
production from the Capua and Belvidere facilities in 2005; provided that Martek will not be
required to purchase more than * Units of ARA from Belvidere production in 2005 or more than
* Units of ARA from Capua production in 2005. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent
that Belvidere production for 2005 is less than * Units of ARA, Martek shall pay to DSM for
2006 Belvidere ARA production the prices set forth herein for Units of ARA produced at DSM s
Belvidere facility for 2005 for that number of Units of ARA produced by Belvidere in 2006
equal to * Units of ARA less the number of Units of ARA produced from Belvidere and
purchased by Martek in 2005.

14. Miscellaneous .

(a) Except as expressly modified herein, all terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement
shall remain in full force and effect and the Agreement as so modified is hereby ratified and
confirmed in all respects.

(b) The provisions of Section 10.5 (Disputes; Arbitration) of the Agreement are hereby
incorporated by reference into this First Amendment, with the same force and effect as if set forth
in full herein.

(c) This First Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal
laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts to be performed fully within the State of New
York. The parties hereby expressly exclude the applicability of the Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods and that body of law known as conflicts of laws.

(d) Neither this First Amendment nor any terms hereof may be amended, waived, discharged or
terminated unless such amendment, waiver, discharge or termination is in writing signed by all
parties or, in the case of a waiver, by the party waiving compliance.

(e) The parties acknowledge that this First Amendment sets forth the complete, exclusive and
integrated understanding of the parties and supersedes all proposals or prior agreements, oral or
written, and all other prior communications between the parties relating to the subject matter of
this First Amendment and, except as provided in Section 15(d), no other documents shall act to
modify, amend or add to this First Amendment.

(f) This First Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be
deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same document.

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

13

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this First Amendment to be duly executed
and delivered as of the day and year first above written.

MARTEK BIOSCIENCES CORPORATION 

DSM FOOD SPECIALTIES B.V.  

/s/ Steve Dubin

/s/ Rob van Leen 

By: Steve Dubin

By: Rob van Leen 

Title: President

Title: Business Group Director 

/s/ Krijn Rietveld 

By: Krijn Rietveld 

Title: Business Unit Director 

Schedules;

Schedule 2.17

Biomass Specifications 

Schedule 2.20A

Broth Specifications 

Schedule 2.28

Crude Oil Specifications 

Schedule 2.66A

Fine Granulate Specifications 

Schedule 4.2(a)

DSM Certificate of Analysis (Fine Granulates, Broth, Biomass, Crude Oil) 

Schedule 4.6

Manufacturing Changes 

Schedule 3.3A

August, 2004 Letter  

Schedule 3.3A(a)

Planned Expansion 

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

14

SCHEDULE 2.17 
BIOMASS SPECIFICATIONS 

Product no: 2984 

Parameters 

Approval 

Discussion  

Limit   *   

Range   *   

Methods  

Release specifications 

Description

* 

*  

Smell

* 

*  

Colour

* 

*  

* 

* 

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

Control specifications* 

Parameters 

Specification limit  *  

Methods  

* 

* 

*  

* 

*

*  

Controlled in batch records: 

* 

* 

*  

In-process control parameters  * : 

Parameters 

Control limit  *  

Methods  

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

In addition to parameters above, biomass must produce crude oil meeting all applicable
specifications defined in  * . Retention samples of biomass will be maintained by DSM for reference
if any off-spec results are obtained in crude oil.

Scope

* 

* 

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

Legend: 
 * 

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

15

*  
 *  
 *  
 *  
 *  
 *  
 *  
 * 

Storage: 
       
     Packaging: 

Below -2  C  /-3   C,

Big Bags (polypropylene with polyethylene liner), anti static 

preferably lower temperatures

Labeled with product number, batch
number, production number, production date and storage conditions on
both inner and outer bag 

Protected from light

Dry conditions 

Expiration period *  

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

16

SCHEDULE 2.20A 
BROTH SPECIFICATIONS 

Product no: 

Parameters 

Approval limit  *  

Methods  

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

Control specifications  *   

* 

* 

Legend: 
 *  
 *  
 * 

Scope

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

17

SCHEDULE 2.28 
CRUDE OIL SPECIFICATIONS 

Product no: 2983  

Parameters 

Approval limit  *  

Discussion Range  *  

Methods  

Release specifications  

Appearance

* 

*  

Colour

* 

*  

Smell

* 

*  

* 

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

Parameters 

Specification Limit  *  

Methods  

Control specifications  *   

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

Control specifications  * ;  

* : every tenth batch;
 * : every batch; All experimental batches  

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

*  

In-process control parameters  * :  

Parameters 

Control limit  *  

Methods  

* 

* 

* 

Scope

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

18

*  
 *  
 *  
*

Storage conditions: 
       
     Packaging: 

below  18 C

Under Nitrogen 

Protected from light

200 kg food grade phenolic coated
lined drums (tight head) with DSM label 

Dry conditions

*  
       
     Expiration date: *  

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

19

SCHEDULE 2.66A 
FINE GRANULATES SPECIFICATIONS 

Product no: 8752  

Parameters 

Approval 

Discussion 

Methods  

Limit  *  

Range  *   

Release specifications  

Description

* 

*  

Smell

* 

*  

Colour

* 

*  

* 

* 

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

* 

* 

*  

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

Control
specifications*  

Parameters 

Specification limit  *  

Methods  

* 

* 

*  

* 

*

*  

Controlled in batch records:  

* 

* 

*  

In-process control parameters  * :  

Parameters 

Control limit  *  

Methods  

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

Scope

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

Legend: 
 *  
 *  
 *  
 *  
 *  
 * 

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

20

*  
 *  
 *  
 *  
 * 

Storage: 
       
     Packaging: 

*  

*  

Expiration period:  *  

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

21

SCHEDULE 4.2(a) 
DSM CERTIFICATE OF ANALYSIS 

FINE GRANULATES 

Product no: 8752 

Parameters 

Requirements 

Result  

Description

*  

Smell

*  

Colour

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

Storage: 
       
     Packaging: 

*  

*  

Expiration period  * :

Remarks

Date:

QA-Manager:

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

22

SCHEDULE 4.2(a) 
DSM CERTIFICATE OF ANALYSIS 

BROTH 

Remarks

Date:

QA-Manager:

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

23

SCHEDULE 4.2(a) 
DSM CERTIFICATE OF ANALYSIS 

BIOMASS 

Product no: 2984 

Parameters 

Requirements 

Result  

Description

* 

Smell

*  

Colour

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

Storage: 
       
     Packaging: 

Below -2 C  /-3   C, preferably

Big Bags (polypropylene with polyethylene liner), anti static 

lower temperatures

Labeled with product number, batch number, production 

Protected from light

number, production date and storage conditions on both inner 

Dry conditions

and outer bag 

Expiration period  * :

Remarks

Date:

QA-Manager:

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

24

SCHEDULE 4.2(a) 
DSM CERTIFICATE OF ANALYSIS 

CRUDE OIL 

Product no: 2983 

Parameters 

Requirements 

Results  

Appearance

* 

Colour

* 

Smell

* 

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

* 

*  

Storage conditions: 
       
     Packaging: 

below  18 C

Under Nitrogen 

Protected from light

200 kg food grade phenolic coated lined drums 

Dry conditions

(tight head) with DSM label 

Expiration date (24 months from date of packaging):

Remarks

Date:

QA-Manager:

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

25

SCHEDULE 4.6 
MANUFACTURING CHANGES 

I. Standard Operating Procedure: Martek/DSM Procedure  Process Change Control Procedure   

A. Documentation:  All process changes must be documented and approved by management level
representatives from the departments applicable to the process change, including but not limited
to, Process Development, Manufacturing, and Quality Assurance. DSM and Martek will each maintain a
log of process changes, which will be accessible to the other party. Process changes are permanent
modifications made to the manufacturing and testing processes. Temporary process deviations will
be appropriately documented by each party in the applicable production and testing records and
addressed outside of this agreement.

B. Major vs. minor changes:  Changes are categorized as  minor  or  major  process changes, as
summarized in the examples below:

Minor changes:  Any change that has an impact to yield or process efficiency

Fermentation 

Drying 

Extraction and RBD  

*

*

* 

*

* 

*

* 

* 

* 

Major changes:  Any change that has or may have a detectable and significant effect on final product
properties as specified in the product specification forms

Fermentation 

Drying 

Extraction and RBD  

*

*

* 

*

*

* 

*

*

* 

*

* 

*

* 

*

* 

*

* 

* 
     *

C. Customer notification requirements: 

Both parties will inform each other every quarter of all changes to production controls,
processes and test methods, both minor and major. 

Both parties require pre-notification and the right to approve process and test method
changes classified as major. 

Martek is responsible to determine if and when process and test method changes require
prior or post change customer notification. 

Martek, with DSM help, will determine if a process or test methods change requires
regulatory review. 

Any change categories not specified in the table above must be discussed by the Quality
Subcommittee with recommendation to the Steering Committee as appropriate.

Version 3   Modified Dec 22, 2004

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

26

SCHEDULE 3.3A 
AUGUST, 2004 LETTER 

August 25,
2004

Dr. Krijn Rietveld 
Business Unit Director Nutritional Ingredients 
DSM Food Specialties B.V. 
2613 AX Delft 
The Netherlands

Dear Krijn,

Pursuant to section * of the ARA Alliance, Purchase and Production Agreement By and Between Martek
Biosciences and DSM Food Specialties B.V. dated April 19, 2004 (the  Agreement ), I am writing to
notify DSM that there is a * for the calendar quarters Q4 of 2004 and Q1 of 2005. As a result of
this * for *, the * will be * until * following * that *.

Additionally, pursuant to section 3.3 (c) of the Agreement Martek requests that DSM expand its
current production capacity to provide a quarterly output of * metric tons of crude 40% ARA oil
through Q3 of calendar year 2005, * metric tons output of crude 40% ARA oil from Q4 of calendar
year 2005 to Q2 2006, and * metric tons output of crude 40% ARA oil from Q3 2006 to Q3 of 2007.
Martek offers to guarantee that DSM will recover its investment in so expanding its ARA production
capacity through the DSM Mark Up received on purchase orders by Martek for ARA Products over a
period of twelve (12) quarters.

Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings attributed to them in the Agreement unless
defined herein or the context indicates otherwise.

Please acknowledge receipt of this notice by signing below and returning an enclosed copy to me at
your earliest convenience.

Sincerely,

Chris Lindsay 
Sr. Dir. Project Management

Receipt acknowledged;

Date:

Krijn Rietveld, DSM Food Specialties

CC:

David Abramson, Martek Biosciences

Johan van Doesum, DSM Food Specialties B.V. 

Steve Dubin, Martek Biosciences

Attn: Legal Counsel, DSM Food Specialties B.V. 

Flint Harding, Martek Biosciences 

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

27

Tom Feeley, Martek Biosciences

SCHEDULE 3.3A( a)

PLANNED EXPANSION 

The Planned Expansion shall consist of the Phase II Belvidere Build-Out and the Capua Expansion.

The  Phase II Belvidere Build-Out  shall mean the production capacity put in place by DSM at its
Belvidere facility, consisting of * and the related DSP and support capacity and is expected to be
completed by December 31, 2005. The total Technical Capacity of the Belvidere facility after the
Phase II Belvidere Build-Out shall be approximately * Units of ARA.

The  Capua Expansion  shall mean the debottlenecking of the DSP and the construction of one (1) *
and peripheral equipment which will add an estimated * Units of ARA to the annual capacity of the
Capua facility and was completed in May 2005. The total Technical Capacity of the Capua facility
after the Capua Expansion shall be approximately * Units of ARA.

Martek DSP Capabilities to be established at its Kingstree, South Carolina facility will consist of
a broth recover filter press and fluid bed dryer capable of recovering an estimated * Units of ARA
per year. The Martek DSP Capabilities were completed in March 2005.

* 
       
     The asterisk denotes that confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted in reliance on Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The confidential portions have been submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

28

</EX-10.01>

<EX-31.01>
 3
 w18426exv31w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.01

exv31w01 

EXHIBIT 31.01 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)

I, Henry Linsert, Jr., certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Martek Biosciences Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Date: March 13, 2006

By /s/ Henry Linsert, Jr.

Henry Linsert, Jr. 
Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.01>

<EX-31.02>
 4
 w18426exv31w02.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.02

exv31w02 

EXHIBIT 31.02 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)

I, Peter L. Buzy, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Martek Biosciences Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

</EX-31.02>

<EX-32.01>
 5
 w18426exv32w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.01

exv32w01 

EXHIBIT 32.01 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

The undersigned, the Chief Executive Officer of Martek Biosciences Corporation ( the
Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge, on the date hereof:

a) 
       
     The quarterly report on Form 10-Q of the Company for the period
ended January 31, 2006 filed on the date hereof with the Securities and Exchange
Commission ( the Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

b) 
       
     Information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: March 13, 2006

By /s/ Henry Linsert, Jr.

Henry Linsert, Jr. 
Chief Executive Officer

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form
within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided
to Martek Biosciences Corporation and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.01>

<EX-32.02>
 6
 w18426exv32w02.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.02

exv32w02 

EXHIBIT 32.02 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

The undersigned, the Chief Financial Officer of Martek Biosciences Corporation ( the
Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge, on the date hereof:

a) 
       
     The quarterly report on Form 10-Q of the Company for the period ended January 31,
2006 filed on the date hereof with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( the Report )
fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934; and 

b) 
       
     Information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: March 13, 2006

By
/s/ Peter L. Buzy 

Peter L. Buzy 
Chief Financial Officer

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form
within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided
to Martek Biosciences Corporation and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.02>

