<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060316_10-Q_edgar_data_1028215_0001104659-06-017258_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>958774</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>62138</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>639172</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>19</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-017258.hdr.sgml : 20060316
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060316143717
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-017258
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060316
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060316

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			KMG CHEMICALS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001028215
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CHEMICALS & ALLIED PRODUCTS [2800]
		IRS NUMBER:				752640529
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			TX
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-29278
		FILM NUMBER:		06691349

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10611 HARWIN, SUITE 402
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77036
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7139889252

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10611 HARWIN
		STREET 2:		SUITE 402
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77036

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	KMG B INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19961205

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 QLRVG9o9Y2OBDK5W32nh2b6IZ12lPAIb+PMoEwK4g6omLd5KvKJtvjEs6lzWMcUz
 27S950lE9pNe6clG2LhdlA==

 0001104659-06-017258.txt : 20060316

10-Q
 1
 a06-7011_110q.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

Form 10-Q   

QUARTERLY
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934   

For the quarterly period ended January 31,
2006   

o                                         TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT   

For the transition period from         
to            

Commission file number 000-29278   

KMG
CHEMICALS, INC.   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)  

Texas   

75-2640529   

(State or other
  jurisdiction of  

(I.R.S. Employer  

incorporation or
  organization)  

Identification No.)  

10611
Harwin Drive, Suite 402   

   Houston,
Texas 77036   

  (Address of principal executive offices)  

(713)
988-9252   

  (Registrant s telephone number including area
code)  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  

  Yes
                   No  o  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer or non-accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act).  

Large Accelerated Filer   o  

Accelerated Filer   o  

Non-Accelerated Filer      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange
Act Rule 12b-2).  

  Yes
  o     No     

APPLICABLE
ONLY TO ISSUERS INVOLVED IN BANKRUPTCY   

   PROCEEDINGS
DURING THE PRECEDING FIVE YEARS:   

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant filed all documents and reports required
to be filed by Sections 12, 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934
subsequent to the distribution of securities under a plan confirmed by a court.  

  Yes
  o     No  o  

APPLICABLE
ONLY TO CORPORATE ISSUERS:   

As
of March 13, 2006, there were 8,817,119 shares of the registrant s common
stock outstanding, excluding treasury shares.  

2  

Part I.   FINANCIAL
INFORMATION   

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.   

KMG CHEMICALS, INC.  

  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  

  (Amounts in thousands)  

3  

KMG
CHEMICALS, INC.   

   CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS   

   (Amounts
in thousands, except for share and per share data)   

See notes to consolidated financial statements.  

4  

KMG CHEMICALS, INC.  

  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  

  (UNAUDITED)  

  (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)  

See notes to consolidated financial
statements.  

5  

KMG CHEMICALS, INC.  

  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  
EQUITY 

  (UNAUDITED)  

  (Amounts in thousands)  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.  

6  

KMG CHEMICALS, INC.  

  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

  (UNAUDITED)  

  (Amounts in Thousands)  

See notes to consolidated
financial statements.  

7  

NOTES
TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)  

(1)                                         Basis of Presentation.   The unaudited condensed consolidated
financial statements included herein have been prepared pursuant to the rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) for interim
reporting, and in the opinion of management reflect all adjustments, including
those of a normal recurring nature, that are necessary for a fair presentation
of financial position and results of operations for the interim periods presented.
These financial statements include the accounts of KMG Chemicals, Inc. and
its subsidiaries (collectively, the  Company ). All significant intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. As permitted
under those requirements, certain footnotes or other financial information that
are normally required by GAAP (accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America) have been condensed or omitted. The financial
statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the financial
statements and notes thereto included in the Company s annual report on Form 10-K
for the year ended July 31, 2005. 

(2)                                         Earnings Per Share.   Basic earnings per share have been computed
by dividing net income by the weighted average shares outstanding. Diluted
earnings per share have been computed by dividing net income by the weighted
average shares outstanding plus dilutive potential common shares. The following
table presents information necessary to calculate basic and diluted earnings
per share for periods indicated: 

8  

(3)                                       Inventories.   Inventories are
summarized as follows: 

(4)                                       Stock-based Compensation.   The Company has adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based
Payment,  ( FAS 123(R) ) which requires the measurement and recognition of
compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and
directors; including employee stock options based on estimated fair values. FAS
123(R) supersedes the Company s previous accounting under Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 )
for periods beginning in fiscal 2006. In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ( SAB 107 ) relating to FAS 123(R). The
Company has applied the provisions of SAB 107 in its adoption of FAS 123(R). 

The Company adopted FAS 123(R) using the modified
prospective transition method, which requires the application of the accounting
standard as of August 1, 2005, the first day of the Company s fiscal year
2006. The Company s Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the three
and six months ended January 31, 2006 reflect the impact of FAS 123(R). In
accordance with the modified prospective transition method, the Company s
Consolidated Financial Statements for prior periods have not been restated to
reflect, and do not include, the impact of FAS 123(R). The effect on net
earnings and earnings per share of the Company before and after application of
the fair value recognition provision of FAS 123(R) to stock-based employee
compensation for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 is
illustrated below:  

9  

The pro forma effect on net earnings and earnings
per share as if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provision of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards  Accounting for Stock-based
compensation  ( FAS 123 ), to Stock-based employee compensation for the three
and six months ended January 31, 2005 is illustrated below:  

10  

(5)                                       Intangible and Other Assets.
  Intangible
and other assets are summarized as follows: 

Amortization
expense was $625,000 and $1.2 million for the three and six month periods ended
January 31, 2006, and $205,000 and $422,000 for the three and six
month periods ended January 31, 2005.  

(6)                                         Dividends.   Dividends of
$329,000 ($0.0375 per share) and $264,000 ($0.035 per share) were declared and
paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. No further
dividends were declared or paid in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and 2005. 

11  

(7)                                         Business Segment Information.
  The
Company operates four business segments organized around its four product
lines: pentachlorophenol (penta) products; creosote; animal health products and
agricultural products. 

12  

A reconciliation of total segment income (loss) to
consolidated amounts is as follows:  

(8)                                         Subsequent Events.   

On February 22, 2006, the Company purchased
certain assets of the animal health insecticides business of Boehringer
Ingelheim Vetmedica, Inc. ( BIVI ). The assets purchased included pesticide
registrations for pesticides used on cattle, swine, poultry and livestock
premises, a processing and warehouse facility in Elwood, Kansas, and related
equipment. We also purchased the insecticides finished goods, raw materials and
packaging inventory on hand at closing. The insecticides registrations acquired
in the transaction are for the United States, Canada, Mexico, Australia and
several countries in Latin America, and they complement the Company s existing
animal health products registrations. The new products include a leading brand
of insecticidal ear tags for cattle and several liquid and dust formulations
for livestock and their premises. The purchase price was approximately $9.0
million, including $3.0 million of inventory. The purchase was funded entirely
with available cash. No additional debt was incurred to finance the
acquisition.  

13  

ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.   

Results of Operations   

The following table sets forth the Company s net
sales and certain other financial data, including the amount of the change
between the three and six month periods ended January 31, 2006 and 2005:  

Sales Revenue and Gross Profit   

Net sales revenue for the second quarter of fiscal
2006 increased 24.6% as compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2005. Net
sales revenue for the first six months of fiscal 2006 increased 14.8% over the
prior year period. Penta revenues increased $2.2 million for the second
quarter, and creosote revenues were up $1.7 million in the second quarter.
For the first six months of fiscal 2006, however, increased net sales revenue
came almost entirely from increased penta revenues (up $4.0 million), and
creosote revenues were up only about $200 thousand. About $1.5 million of the
penta increase in the first six months came from greater sales of penta blocks
to customers of Vulcan Materials Company, certain of whose penta assets we
acquired in June 2005 when that company exited the penta business. The
balance of the penta revenue increase came on increased demand for penta poles
from utilities in the wake of hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the first quarter
of fiscal 2006. Our creosote sales were down in the first quarter because of
disruption in operations caused by those hurricanes, but creosote volume
rebounded strongly toward the end of the first quarter. We believe that strong
demand from major railroads for crossties treated with creosote will continue
in the near term.  We are in arbitration
with Reilly Industries, Inc., the supplier of approximately half of the
creosote we sell, regarding the price at which we purchase creosote under our
supply agreement. Depending on the outcome of that arbitration, our creosote
supply agreement could be modified materially.  

Agricultural chemical product sales were down $118
thousand in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared with the prior year
quarter, but down only $16 thousand for the six months  comparison. Animal
health products sales revenues decreased $679 thousand in the second
quarter, and decreased $427 thousand in the first six months of fiscal
2006 as compared with the prior year. In fiscal 2005, a significant purchase by
a  

14  

major
animal health products customer occurred in the second quarter, rather than in
the third, and that materially affected the quarterly and six months 
comparison. We anticipate that fiscal 2006 results for annual health products
will compare favorably with those in fiscal 2005. Revenue from the agricultural
and animal health products segments is seasonal and weighted to the third and
fourth quarters. Seasonal usage of agricultural and animal health products is
dependent on varying agricultural seasonal patterns, weather conditions and
weather-related pressure from pests, as well as customer marketing programs and
requirements. Weather patterns can have an impact on our sales, particularly
sales of agricultural products. The end user of some of our products may,
because of weather patterns, delay or intermittently disrupt field work during
the season which may result in a reduction of the use of some products and
therefore reduce our revenues and profitability. The combined revenues from
products subject to seasonal variations represent less than 20% of our total
annual revenues.  

Gross profit increased $1.4 million in the
second quarter of fiscal 2006 over the same quarter of the prior year, and
increased $2.2 million in the first six months of fiscal 2006 over the
prior year period. Gross profit as a percentage of sales improved to 35.6% for
the second quarter in fiscal 2006 from 33.5% for the same quarter in fiscal
2005. For the full six months of fiscal 2006, gross profit improved to 35.4% of
sales from 32.3% for the same period in fiscal 2005. The margin improvement
came from the increased volume of higher margin penta. Although margins
improved, they will continue to be impacted in fiscal 2006 by the high penta
raw material costs we have experienced since fiscal 2002. We expect penta raw
material costs will remain at high levels, maintaining pressure on our margins
throughout fiscal 2006. Other companies may include certain of the costs
that we record in cost of sales in selling, general and administrative
expenses, and may include certain of the costs that we record in selling,
general and administrative expenses as a component of cost of sales, resulting
in a lack of comparability between our gross profit and that reported by other
companies.  

On February 22, 2006, we expanded our animal
health business by purchasing certain assets of animal health insecticides
business of Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica, Inc. ( BIVI ). See note 8,
Subsequent Events. We expect the purchase will add approximately
$8.0 million in annual revenues beginning in fiscal 2007. Because BIVI will
continue to market the purchased product lines during the remainder of fiscal
2006, we expect the purchase will have only a minor positive effect on sales
revenue and gross profit in fiscal 2006.  

Selling, General and
Administrative Expenses   

As a percentage of net revenue, selling, general,
and administrative expenses increased slightly in the second quarter of fiscal
2006 to 27.0% from 26.7% for the same quarter of the prior fiscal year. Selling,
general and administrative expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 were
approximately $870 thousand (26.2%) higher than in that quarter in the
prior fiscal year. Over the first six months, these expenses increased
$1.6 million (25.7%) over the prior year. In both the second quarter and
for the full six months of fiscal 2006, the increase in expense was primarily
attributable to penta distribution expense increases on greater volume,
increased amortization expense for penta intangibles acquired in fiscal 2005,
and supply chain disruptions caused by hurricanes Katrina and Rita. For the
first six months of fiscal 2006, about $325 thousand of the increase was
due to increased penta distribution expenses, and $800 thousand was for
increased amortization expense. We temporarily lost the use of our creosote
terminal near New Orleans due to hurricane Katrina, and incurred additional
expense for a substitute interim terminal. We also began amortizing previously
issued options and deducting for shares issued to directors, incurring
additional expense in fiscal 2006 of approximately $250 thousand over the
prior year .  

15  

Interest Expense   

Interest expense was $264 thousand in the
second quarter of fiscal 2006 as compared with $137 thousand in the same
quarter of fiscal 2005, and $524 thousand for the first six months as
compared to $263 thousand in the prior year period. Most of the increase
was due to a new $10 million promissory note provided as part of the
consideration paid for  our penta assets acquisition in fiscal 2005.  

Income Taxes   

Our effective tax rate was 37.7% in the first six
months of fiscal 2006, and 38.0% in the first six months of fiscal 2005.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

Cash Flows   

Net cash from operating activities was
$3.8 million for the first six months of fiscal 2006. Net income of
$1.4 million, a reduction of $2.0 million in trade receivables
(primarily from agricultural and animal health products), and depreciation and
amortization of $1.8 million were the main contributors to net cash thus far
in fiscal 2006. These factors were offset as we built inventories from seasonal
lows. In the first six months of fiscal 2005, net cash from operating
activities was $2.5 million on net income of $1.1 million.  

Net cash used in investing activities in the
first six months of fiscal 2006 was $900 thousand, and was principally for
expansion of penta production capacity at our Mexico facility.  

In the first six months of fiscal 2006,
$792 thousand in net cash was used to make principal payments on our borrowings
and $329 thousand was paid in dividends.  It is our policy to pay
dividends from available cash after taking into consideration our
profitability, capital requirements, financial condition, growth, business
opportunities and other factors which our board of directors may deem
relevant.  

Working Capital   

We have a working capital line of credit
under a revolving credit facility with Wachovia Bank, National Association
(which acquired our former lender, SouthTrust Bank). At January 31, 2006,
we had not borrowed under that facility, and our  borrowing base availability was
$5.0 million. Management believes that the revolving credit facility,
combined with cash flows from operations, will adequately provide for the
Company s working capital needs in fiscal 2006. 

Long Term Obligations   

Our purchase of certain assets of the other penta
supplier in fiscal 2005 was financed in part by a $10 million loan
from the seller. The indebtedness is payable in five equal annual installments
of $2 million plus interest at 4% per annum. The first installment is due
in June 2006. The principal balance of that indebtedness was
$10 million at January 31, 2006.  

16  

Our purchase of the Rabon animal health products
business in fiscal 2003 and our acquisitions in fiscal 2004 were financed in part by
two term loans under a senior credit facility with Wachovia Bank. The combined
principal balance of our two term loan facilities with Wachovia was
approximately $10.4 million at January 31, 2006. The principal
balance of our first term loan under that facility at January 31, 2006
was $3.5 million. The loan is being amortized monthly over ten years, but
the maturity date is December 20, 2007. The loan carries interest at
a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.8%; however, in February 2003, we
entered into an interest rate swap transaction which effectively fixed the
interest rate at 5.0% for the remainder of the term. The principal balance of
our second term loan under the Wachovia facility was $6.9 million at January 31,
2006. The principal amount of that loan is being repaid monthly on a seven year
amortization schedule, but the maturity date is June 1, 2009. The
second term loan carries interest at a variable rate initially equal to LIBOR
plus 1.75%. For fiscal 2006, the interest spread over LIBOR for this term loan
is expected to be between 1.75% and 2.25%.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   

We have no
off-balance sheet arrangements, such as financing or unconsolidated variable
interest entities.  

New Accounting Rules   

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004) (FAS
123(R)),  Accounting for Share-Based Payments . FAS 123(R) requires all
entities to recognize compensation expense in an amount equal to the fair value
of share-based payments, such as stock options granted to employees. The
Company applied FAS 123(R) on a modified prospective method. Under this method,
the Company records compensation expense (as previous awards continue to vest)
for the unvested portion of previously granted awards that remain outstanding
at the date of adoption of FAS 123(R), which was August 1, 2005.  

In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 151,
 Inventory Costs  ( FAS 151 ), which revised Acounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 43, Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research bulletins,
Chapter 4, Inventory Pricing ( APB  43 ), relating to inventory costs. The
revision is intended to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle
facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material (spoilage). FAS 151
requires that these items be recognized as a current period charge regardless
of whether they meet the criterion specified in ARB 43. In addition,
FAS 151 requires that the allocation of fixed production overheads to the
costs of conversion be based on normal capacity of the production facilities. We
adopted FAS 151 on August 1, 2005. We believe that the
implementation of FAS 151 will not have a material impact on our financial
position or results of operation.  

In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154,
 Accounting Changes   Error Corrections  ( FAS 154 ), which
replaced APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3. This statement
modifies the requirements for accounting and reporting of a voluntary change in
accounting principle and changes required by an accounting pronouncement when
the specific transition provisions are absent. FAS 154 requires
retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in
accounting principle. If it is impracticable to determine either the
period-specific effect or the cumulative effect of the change, FAS 154
requires that the new accounting principle be adopted prospectively from the
earliest practicable date. FAS 154 is effective in the period that began
after December 15, 2005, and early adoption was permitted in the fiscal
years beginning after FAS 154 was issued.  

17  

Critical Accounting Policies   

We
have made no changes in our methods or application of critical accounting
policies from the information provided in our annual report on Form 10-K
for fiscal 2005.  

Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking
Statements   

We are including the following discussion to inform our
existing and potential security holders generally of some of the risks and
uncertainties that can affect us, and to take advantage of the  safe harbor 
protection for forward-looking statements that applicable federal securities
laws afford. From time to time, our management or persons acting on our behalf
make forward-looking statements to inform existing and potential security
holders about our company. These forward-looking statements include information
about possible or assumed future results of our operations. All statements,
other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated by
reference in this report that address activities, events or developments that
we expect or anticipate may occur in the future, including such things as
future capital expenditures, business strategy, competitive strengths, goals,
growth of our business and operations, business plans and references to future
successes may be considered forward-looking statements. Also, when we use
words such as  anticipate,   believe,   estimate,   intend,   plan,   project, 
 forecast,   may,   should,   budget,   goal,   expect,   probably  or similar
expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Many risks and
uncertainties may impact the matters addressed in these forward-looking
statements. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and
we will not update forward-looking statements unless the securities laws
require us to do so.  

Some
of the key factors which could cause our future financial results and performance
to vary from those expected include:  

the loss of long-standing customers; 

                        our ability to implement productivity
improvements, cost reduction initiatives or facilities expansions; 

                        market developments affecting, and other
changes in, the demand for our products and the introduction of new competing
products; 

                        availability or increases in the price of our
primary raw materials or active ingredients; 

                        the timing of planned capital expenditures; 

                        our ability to identify, develop or acquire,
integrate into our operations, and market additional product lines and
businesses necessary to implement our business strategy and our ability to
finance such acquisitions and development; 

                        the condition of the capital markets
generally, which will be affected by interest rates, foreign currency
fluctuations and general economic conditions; 

                        cost and other effects of legal and
administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims, including
environmental liabilities which may not be covered by indemnity or
insurance; 

                        the political and economic climate in the
foreign or domestic jurisdictions in which we conduct business; and 

                        other United States or foreign regulatory or
legislative developments which affect the demand for our products generally or
increase the environmental compliance cost for our products or impose
liabilities on the manufacturers and distributors of such products. 

                        Vendor/supply chain 

The information contained in this report and in
documents incorporated by reference into this report, identifies additional
factors that could cause our results or performance to differ materially from
those we express in our forward-looking statements. Although we believe that
the assumptions underlying our forward-  

18  

looking
statements are reasonable, any of these assumptions and, therefore, the
forward-looking statements based on these assumptions, could themselves prove
to be inaccurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the
forward-looking statements which are included in this report and the exhibits
and other documents incorporated herein by reference, our inclusion of this
information is not a representation by us or any other person that our
objectives and plans will be achieved.  

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.   

We are exposed to certain market risks arising from
transactions that are entered into in the ordinary course of business,
primarily from changes in foreign exchange rates. We generally do not utilize
derivative financial instruments or hedging transactions to manage that risk;
however, we did enter into an interest rate swap transaction in February 2003
that effectively fixed the interest rate on one of our term loans at 5.0% for
the remainder of the loan s term. An increase or decrease in interest rates
would not affect our earnings or cash flow over the life of the term loan
because the interest rate swap serves to fix the interest rate at 5.0%. Should
the financial market s expectations for interest rates in the future increase,
then the value of the swap, recorded as an asset on the consolidated balance
sheets, would increase. Conversely, a drop in the financial market s
expectations for future interest rates would cause a drop in the value of that
recorded asset. It is possible that the future expectations for interest rates
could decline enough to cause the swap to be recorded no longer as an asset,
but as a liability, during the lifetime of the swap, which expires December 2007.
At January 31, 2006, the market value of the swap was an asset of $91
thousand.  

ITEM 4. CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES.   

The term  disclosure controls and procedures  is
defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. This term refers to the controls and procedures of a
company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed
by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified
by the SEC. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report. Based
upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.  

There were no changes to our internal control over
financial reporting during our last fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonable likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.  

19  

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION   

ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.   

We are from time to time a party to arbitrations,
lawsuits and other legal proceedings that arise in the normal course of our
business. We accrue for these items when we deem losses to be probable and
reasonably estimable.  

Although the ultimate outcome of these matters
cannot be determined at this time, based on present information, and advice
received from our outside legal counsel, we believe the resolution of these
matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations or financial position.  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   

We believe the risks and
uncertainties described below are the most significant we face. The occurrence
of any of the following risks could harm our business. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also
impair our operations.   

Risks Relating to Our Business   

We may experience
a reduced demand for our wood preserving chemicals if the demand for the wood
products on which those chemicals are used decreases, which may adversely
affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.    

Our wood preserving products are sold into mature
markets. The principal consumers of our wood preserving products are industrial
customers who use them primarily to treat utility poles, bridge timbers and
railroad crossties. Although these products are being sold into relatively
stable markets, the demand for treated wood generally increases or decreases with
the financial strength and maintenance budgets of the electric utilities and
railroad companies.  

Pentachlorophenol is used primarily to treat utility
poles in the United States. Over the last several years, utility pole demand
has declined as electric utilities in the United States have reduced their
maintenance spending due to competitive pressures arising from deregulation.
Deregulation may continue to negatively affect the utility pole market.  

The largest market for creosote is treating railroad
crossties in the United States. According to the Railway Tie Association,
domestic railroads use an average of approximately 16 million crossties every
year for track maintenance and improvements. Since 1987, tie replacement rates
have varied between 14 million and 20 million crossties per year. Currently,
the replacement rate in the United States is estimated to be near the top end
of this replacement rate range. If the current replacement rate declines, we
will see a decline in our creosote sales. A decline in utility pole, bridge
timber or railroad crosstie sales could have a materially adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.  

We are at risk
from fluctuations in the price and availability of our primary raw materials.    

If the supply for any of our main raw materials is
disrupted, we may not be able to source quality raw materials in a timely
fashion at reasonable cost. No assurance can be given that such a disruption
would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results
of operations. Likewise, our inability to completely pass through an increase
in our raw material costs could erode the profitability of our operations.
Chlorine is a main component in the manufacture of pentachlorophenol. Chlorine
prices have more than tripled since July, 2002. Although we have been able to
achieve a significant price increase for pentachlorophenol since  

20  

July,
2002, it has not been sufficient to maintain the previous profitability of that
product. The price we pay for creosote has also increased significantly in the
last several years, and we have not always been able to fully and timely pass
those increases to our customers. In the future we may be unable to fully
and timely pass on increases in our raw material costs, and thus no assurance
can be given that raw material cost increases will not have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations.  

We are dependent
on a limited number of suppliers for our creosote and our animal health
pesticide active ingredient.    

We have two major suppliers of the creosote we
distribute and two suppliers of the active ingredient for our animal health
pesticide. The price for creosote under our supply agreements is determined
annually. If the price of creosote increases materially, our results of
operations for our creosote business may be adversely affected. If we were
to lose a major supplier of creosote or our animal health active ingredient, we
might have difficulty securing a replacement supplier at reasonable cost, and
no assurance can be given that such loss would not have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

We generally
operate only one terminal capable of taking creosote imported from Europe.    

One of our major creosote suppliers is based in
Europe. We import that creosote by ship at a contract terminal near New
Orleans, Louisiana. If we suddenly lost the use of that terminal, a substitute
terminal may not be readily available at a competitive cost. In August 2005,
we did lose the use of that terminal temporarily due to Hurricane Katrina.
Although we were able to locate a temporary substitute in that case, no
assurance can be given that we would be able to do so in the future. No assurance
can be given that we will be able to renew the contract pursuant to which we
are permitted to use this terminal or that the sudden loss of such terminal
would not cause a significant disruption to our creosote operations and
adversely affect our financial and operating results.  

We are dependent
on major customers for a significant portion of our net sales.    

For the fiscal year ended July 31, 2005, our
top ten customers accounted for approximately 45% of our sales. During this
period, our largest customer, Koppers, Inc., accounted for approximately
10% of our total sales. No assurance can be given that the loss of, or a
significant decrease in the level of purchases by, one or more of our major
customers would not have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.  

We may be
unable to identify, fund and execute new acquisitions.    

Our strategy is to grow primarily by acquiring
additional businesses and product lines. There can be no assurance that we will
be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses and
product lines, or successfully integrate any acquired business or product lines
without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial
difficulties. Financing for acquisitions may not be available, or may be
available only at a cost or on terms and conditions that are unacceptable to
us. There is an increasing trend in selling mature product lines through a
competitive bid process. As a result, we may not be the successful bidder
for a desirable product line, or, if successful, we may pay a higher price
for the product line than if there was no competitive bid process. Further,
acquisitions may involve a number of special risks or effects, including
diversion of management s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel,
unanticipated events or circumstances, legal liabilities, and impairment of
acquired intangible assets and other one-time or ongoing acquisition related
expenses. Some or all of these special risks or effects could have a material adverse
effect on our financial and operating results. In addition, there can be no
assurance that acquired businesses or product lines, if any, will achieve
anticipated revenues and earnings.  

21  

If we are unable
to successfully position ourselves in smaller niche markets, our business may be
adversely affected.    

We are positioned in smaller niche markets that have
been or are being abandoned by larger chemical companies. These types of
markets tend not to attract larger chemical companies due to the smaller volume
demand. As a result, larger chemical companies have been divesting themselves
of products and businesses that fall into those smaller niche markets. Our
acquisition efforts are also focused on smaller niche markets. Smaller niche
markets require significant and intensive management input, ongoing product
support, and are often at or near product maturity. Larger companies often
market and sell newer competing products using other technologies or containing
other active ingredients, and their sales efforts tend to shift demand to the
newer products and depress sales of the older niche products. Thus, there can
be no assurance that the we will be successful or continue to be successful in
niche markets.  

Restrictions in
our debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to respond to
changing conditions.    

Our revolving credit facility and the senior credit
facility with Wachovia Bank, National Association contain a number of
significant covenants in addition to covenants restricting the incurrence of
additional debt. These covenants prohibit a change in control of the Company,
or any further acquisitions that are not approved by the lender under those
facilities. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain
certain financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, which may require
us to take action to reduce our debt or take some other action to comply with
them.  

These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain
future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future
downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct
necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking
advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that
the restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facility and senior credit
facility impose on us.  

A breach of any of these covenants would result in a
default under the applicable debt agreement. A default, if not waived, could
result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the agreement and in a
default with respect to, and acceleration of, the debt outstanding under our
other debt agreements. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and
payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or
to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then
available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.  

The distribution
and sale of our products is subject to prior governmental approvals and
thereafter ongoing governmental regulation.    

Our products are subject to laws administered by
federal, state and foreign governments, including regulations requiring
registration, approval and labeling of our products. The labeling requirements
restrict the use of and type of application for our products. More stringent
restrictions could make our products less desirable which would adversely
affect our sales and profitability. All of our products are subject to the United
States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) registration and
re-registration requirements, and are conditionally registered in accordance
with the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA). Those
registration requirements are based, among other things, on data demonstrating
that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or
the environment when used according to approved label directions. All states
where our products are used also require registration before they can be
marketed or used in that state.  

22  

Governmental regulatory authorities have required,
and may require in the future, that certain scientific testing and data
production be provided on our products. On our behalf and in joint efforts with
other registrants, we have and are currently furnishing certain required data
relative to our products. Under FIFRA, the federal government requires
registrants to submit a wide range of scientific data to support U.S.
registrations. This requirement significantly increases our operating expenses,
and we expect those expenses will continue in the future. Because scientific
analyses are constantly improving, it cannot be determined with certainty
whether or not new or additional tests may be required by regulatory
authorities. While FIFRA Good Laboratory Practice standards specify the minimum
practices and procedures which must be followed in order to ensure the quality
and integrity of data related to these tests submitted to the U.S. EPA, there
can be no assurance the U.S. EPA will not request certain tests or studies be
repeated. In addition, more stringent legislation or requirements may be
imposed in the future. We can provide no assurance that that our resources will
be adequate to meet the costs of regulatory compliance, or that the cost of
such compliance will not adversely affect our profitability.  

All of our
products are currently under review for re-registration by the U.S. EPA.    

Our creosote and pentachlorophenol products, and our
animal health and agricultural chemical products, are each presently undergoing
re-registration review by the U.S. EPA under FIFRA. Alone and with other
registrants of those products, we have submitted and will submit a wide range
of scientific data to support our U.S. registrations. In order to be
re-registered, we are required to demonstrate, among other things, that our
products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the
environment when used according to approved label directions. The U.S. EPA has
issued its preliminary risk assessments for creosote and pentachlorophenol, and
has identified certain risks to human health and the environment. Alone and
with other registrants of those products, we have provided and will provide
comments and data on the preliminary risk assessment to show to the U.S. EPA
that our products do not pose unreasonable risk to human health and the
environment when used in accordance with approved label directions. No assurance
can be given as to when or if the U.S. EPA will issue a final risk assessment
concluding that our creosote and pentachlorophenol products, and our animal
health and agricultural chemical products, do not pose an unreasonable risk to
human health or the environment when used in accordance with approved label
directions. No assurance can be given as to when or if those products will be
re-registered by the U.S. EPA, or if re-registered, what use or labeling
restrictions might be required to obviate or mitigate risks identified by the
U.S. EPA. If our products are re-registered by the U.S. EPA, no assurance can
be given that our products will not be subject to further data submission
requirements, or subject to use or labeling restrictions, that have an adverse
effect on our financial position and results of operations. The failure of our
products to be re-registered by the U.S. EPA would have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

We are subject to
extensive environmental laws and regulations and may incur costs that have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition as a result of violations
of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations.    

Like other companies involved in environmentally
sensitive businesses, our operations and properties are subject to extensive
federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including
those concerning, among other things:  

the
treatment, storage and disposal of wastes; 

                        the
investigation and remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater; 

                        the
discharge of effluents into waterways; 

                        the
emission of substances into the air; and 

                        other
matters relating to environmental protection and various health and safety
matters. 

23  

The U.S. EPA and other federal and state agencies,
as well as comparable agencies in Mexico, have the authority to promulgate
regulations that could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We
expend substantial funds to minimize the discharge of hazardous materials in
the environment and to comply with governmental regulations relating to
protection of the environment. Compliance with environmental and health and
safety laws and regulations has resulted in ongoing costs for us, and could
restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities or continue production,
or require us to install costly pollution control equipment or incur
significant expenses, including remediation costs. We have incurred, and expect
to continue to incur, significant costs to comply with environmental and health
and safety laws. Federal, state and foreign governmental authorities may seek
fines and penalties for violation of the various laws and governmental
regulations, and could, among other things, impose liability on us for cleaning
up the damage resulting from release of pesticides, hazardous materials and
other chemicals into the environment.  

Our use of
hazardous materials exposes us to potential liabilities.    

Our manufacturing and distribution of chemical
products involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. While we adapt our
manufacturing and distribution processes to the environmental control standards
of regulatory authorities, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental
contamination or injury from hazardous or regulated materials. In the event of
such contamination or injury, we may be held liable for significant
damages or fines. In the event that such damages or fines are assessed, it
could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operating
results.  

Our business is
subject to many operational risks for which we may not be adequately
insured.    

No assurance can be given that we will not incur
losses beyond the limits of, or outside the coverage of, our insurance
policies. From time to time, various types of insurance for companies in the
chemical industry have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or,
in some cases, have been unavailable. We cannot assure you that in the future
we will be able to maintain existing coverage or that premiums will not
increase substantially.  

We maintain limited insurance coverage for sudden
and accidental environmental damages. We do not believe that insurance coverage
for environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable
cost. Also, we do not believe that the insurance coverage for the full
potential liability that could be caused by sudden and accidental incidences is
available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, we may be subject to an
uninsured or under insured loss in such cases.  

We may experience
a reduction in demand for creosote if our customers dilute their purchased
creosote with fuel oil prior to treating.    

If creosote begins selling at a premium to fuel oil,
it is likely that some of our customers would dilute their purchased creosote
with fuel oil. The potential for dilution with fuel oil is a limiting factor on
our ability to price creosote. If dilution were to occur on a widespread basis,
we could see a significant decline in our creosote sales. A decline in creosote
sales could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

24  

Our business may be
adversely affected by cyclical and seasonal effects.    

The chemical industry in general is cyclical and
demands for its products are potentially seasonal. Seasonal usage follows
varying agricultural seasonal patterns, weather conditions and weather related
pressure from pests, and customer marketing programs and requirements. Weather
patterns can have an impact on our sales, particularly sales of agricultural
products. The end user of some of our products may, because of weather
patterns, delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting season
which may result in a reduction of the use of some products and therefore
reduce our revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that we will
adequately address any adverse seasonal effects.  

We depend on our
senior management team and the loss of any member could adversely affect our
operations     .   

Our success is dependent on the management and
leadership skills of our senior management team, including David L. Hatcher,
our CEO and Chairman, and J. Neal Butler, our President and Chief Operating
Officer. The loss of any of our senior management team or an inability to
attract, retain and maintain additional personnel could prevent us from
implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able
to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional
qualified personnel when needed.  

If we are unable
to successfully negotiate with the labor unions representing our employees, we may experience
a material work stoppage.    

Many of our full-time employees who work at our
facility in Matamoros, Mexico where pentachlorophenol and certain other
products are produced, are represented under a labor contract that is
negotiated annually. There can be no assurance that a new agreement will be
reached each year without union action, and no assurance can be given that a
material work stoppage or union dispute in connection with that contract
negotiation would not adversely affect our results of operations.  

We are subject to
risks inherent in foreign operations, including changes in social, political
and economic conditions.    

We have facilities in the United States and Mexico,
and sell our products in foreign countries, primarily in Latin America. In
fiscal 2005, our production facilities in Matamoros, Mexico constituted
approximately 83% of our property, plant and equipment, and approximately 2% of
our net sales were in foreign countries. Like other companies with foreign
operations and sales, we are exposed to market risks relating to fluctuations
in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We are also exposed to
risks associated with changes in the laws and policies governing foreign
investments in Mexico as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in United States
laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. While such
changes in laws, regulations and conditions to date have not had a material
adverse effect on our business or financial condition, there can be no
assurance as to the future effect of any such changes.  

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS   

Not Applicable.  

ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES.   

Not Applicable.  

25  

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.   

Our annual meeting of the shareholders was held on December 7, 2005.
At that meeting, the shareholders voted to elect all the nominees to the
Company s board of directors as follows:  

The foregoing nominees compose our full board of
directors.  

The shareholders also voted to approve the
appointment of UHY Mann Frankfort Stein   Lipp CPAs, LLP as our
independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal 2006. The vote was
8,363,385 for, 0 against and 300 abstentions.  

ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION.   

The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
will consider recommendations for director made by shareholders for fiscal 2007
if those recommendations are received in writing by July 31, 2006,
addressed to the chairman of the committee, Mr. Urbanowski, care of KMG
Chemicals, Inc., at 10611 Harwin Drive, Suite 402, Houston, Texas
77036. Recommendations by shareholders that are made in accordance with these
procedures will receive equal consideration by the committee. Directors and
members of management may also suggest nominees for director.  

26  

ITEM 6. EXHIBITS.   

(a)                                     The
following documents are filed as exhibits, and documents marked with an
asterisk (*) are management contracts or compensatory plans. 

27  

28  

29  

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

KMG
Chemicals, Inc.  

By:  

/s/ David L. Hatcher  

Date:  

March 16, 2006  

David L. Hatcher,  

Chief Executive Officer  

By:  

/s/ John V. Sobchak  

Date:  

March 16, 2006  

John V. Sobchak,  

Chief Financial Officer  

30  

<EX-31.1>
 2
 a06-7011_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
31.1   

CERTIFICATE  

I,
David L. Hatcher, certify that:  

(1)           I have reviewed this quarterly report
on Form 10-Q of KMG Chemicals, Inc.;  

(2)           Based on my knowledge, this report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report;  

(3)           Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;  

(4)           The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:  

(a)           Designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared;  

(b)           Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and  

(c)           Disclosed in this report any change
in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth
fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and  

(5)           The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions):  

(a)           All significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and  

(b)           Any fraud, whether or not material,
that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date:
  March 16, 2006  

/s/
  David L. Hatcher  

David
  L. Hatcher  

Chief
  Executive Officer and Chairman  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 a06-7011_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2   

CERTIFICATE  

I, John V. Sobchak, certify that:  

(1)                                     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q
of KMG Chemicals, Inc.; 

(2)                                     Based on my knowledge, this report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

(3)                                     Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

(4)                                     The registrant s other certifying officer(s)
and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
for the registrant and have: 

(a)                                     Designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

(b)                                    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(c)                                     Disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

(5)                                     The registrant s other certifying officer(s)
and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control
over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee
of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a)                                     All significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b)                                    Any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 16, 2006  

/s/ John V. Sobchak  

John V. Sobchak  

Chief Financial Officer and Vice President  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 a06-7011_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  

  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  

  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  

  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF
2002  

In
connection with this report of the KMG Chemicals, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006, I, David L. Hatcher,
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,
as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that
to my knowledge:  

(1)                                     The report fully complies with the requirements
of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended; and 

(2)                                     The information contained in the report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results
of operations of the Company. 

Date: March 16, 2006  

/s/ David L. Hatcher  

David L. Hatcher  

Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 a06-7011_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.2   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  

  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  

  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  

  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In
connection with this report of KMG Chemicals, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006, I, John V. Sobchak,
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,
as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that
to my knowledge:  

(1)                                     The report fully complies with the requirements
of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended; and 

(2)                                     The information contained in the report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results
of operations of the Company. 

Date:
  March 16, 2006  

/s/
  John V. Sobchak  

John
  V. Sobchak  

Chief
  Financial Officer  

</EX-32.2>

