<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060330_10-Q_edgar_data_808219_0000892251-06-000283_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>306883</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>53298</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>191569</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>16</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000892251-06-000283.hdr.sgml : 20060330
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060330154703
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000892251-06-000283
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060226
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060330
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060330

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MERITAGE HOSPITALITY GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000808219
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-EATING PLACES [5812]
		IRS NUMBER:				382730460
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MI
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1130

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-12319
		FILM NUMBER:		06723132

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1971 E BELTLINE NE - SUITE 200
		CITY:			GRAND RAPIDS
		STATE:			MI
		ZIP:			49525
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6167762600

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1971 E BELTLINE NE - SUITE 200
		CITY:			GRAND RAPIDS
		STATE:			MI
		ZIP:			49525

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EDISON THOMAS INNS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 NXaSgTPThfdxZKeTFBFQzfwyoH1kA6XANuIdbmgJbISdiDUjlMywGnVKtK2cpE7D
 F0uaeXtYT2QzLYD9Kib9GA==

 0000892251-06-000283.txt : 20060330

10-Q
 1
 form10q022606.htm
 FORM 10-Q - 2/26/06

Form 10-Q 

SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION    
Washington, D.C.    20549   

FORM 10-Q   

(Mark One)   

or   

[   ]   
  Transition
report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  For the
transition period from ___________________ to ____________________   

Commission File Number:
001-12319  

MERITAGE HOSPITALITY
GROUP INC.    
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)    

(616) 776-2600   (Registrant s
Telephone Number, Including Area Code)   

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes  [X]
   No [  ]   

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).   

Large Accelerated Filer
   [  ]          
Accelerated Filer   [  ]        
  Non-Accelerated Filer   [X]  

Indicate by check mark whether the
 registrant  is a  shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
 Yes [  ]     No  [X]   

As of March 29, 2006 there were
5,439,781 outstanding Common Shares, $.01 par value.   

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT   

Certain
statements contained in this report that are not historical facts constitute
forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbors created by that Act.
Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as  estimates, 
 anticipates,   projects,   plans,   expects, 
 believes,   should,  and similar expressions, and by the context in
which they are used. Such statements are based only upon current expectations of the
Company. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date made. Reliance should
not be placed on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, performance or
achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied. Meritage undertakes no
obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances
after the date on which they are made.    

Statements
concerning expected financial performance, business strategies and action which Meritage
intends to pursue to achieve its strategic objectives, constitute forward-looking
information. Implementation of these strategies and achievement of such financial
performance are subject to numerous conditions, uncertainties and risk factors, which
could cause actual performance to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
These include, without limitation: competition; changes in the national or local economy;
changes in consumer tastes and eating habits; concerns about the nutritional quality of
our restaurant menu items; concerns about consumption of beef or other menu items due to
diseases including E. coli, hepatitis, and mad cow; promotions and price discounting by
competitors; severe weather; changes in travel patterns; road construction; demographic
trends; the cost of food, labor and energy; the availability and cost of suitable
restaurant sites; the ability to finance expansion; interest rates; insurance costs; the
availability of adequate managers and hourly-paid employees; directives issued by the
franchisor regarding operations and menu pricing; the general reputation of
Meritage s and its franchisors  restaurants; the relationship between Meritage
and its franchisors; legal claims; and the recurring need for renovation and capital
improvements. In addition, Meritage s expansion into the casual dining restaurant
segment as a franchisee of O Charley s will subject Meritage to additional risks
including, without limitation, unanticipated expenses or difficulties in securing market
acceptance of the O Charley s restaurant brand, the ability of our management
and infrastructure to successfully implement the O Charley s development plan in
Michigan, and our limited experience in the casual dining segment. Also, Meritage is
subject to extensive government regulations relating to, among other things, zoning,
public health, sanitation, alcoholic beverage control, environment, food preparation,
minimum and overtime wages and tips, employment of minors, citizenship requirements,
working conditions, and the operation of its restaurants. Because Meritage s
operations are concentrated in certain areas of Michigan, a marked decline in
Michigan s economy, or in the local economies where our restaurants are located,
could adversely affect our operations.    

PART I 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

Item 1.    Financial
Statements.   

The
following unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with
the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not
contain all the information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting
principles for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all
adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a
fair presentation of the financial position, results of operations, stockholders 
equity and cash flows of Meritage have been included. For further information, please
refer to the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in
Meritage s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 27, 2005.
The results of operations for the first quarter ended February 26, 2006 are not
necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year.   

2   

Meritage Hospitality
Group Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets February 26, 2006 and
November 27, 2005   

ASSETS   

See notes to unaudited
financial statements.   

3   

Meritage Hospitality
Group Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets   continued 
February 26, 2006 and November 27, 2005   

LIABILITIES AND
STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY   

See notes to unaudited
financial statements.   

4   

Meritage Hospitality
Group Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated
Statements of Operations For the Three Months Ended February 26, 2006 and February 27, 2005 
(Unaudited)   

See notes to unaudited
financial statements.   

5   

Meritage Hospitality
Group Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity 
For the Year Ended November 27, 2005 and the Three Months
Ended February 26, 2006 (Unaudited)   

See notes to unaudited financial
statements.   

6   

Meritage Hospitality
Group Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows For the Three Months Ended February 26, 2006 and February 27, 2005 
(Unaudited)   

See notes to unaudited
financial statements.   

7   

Meritage Hospitality
Group Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   continued 
For the Three Months Ended February 26, 2006 and February 27, 2005 (Unaudited)   

See notes to unaudited
financial statements.   

8   

Meritage Hospitality
Group Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited
Financial Statements For
the Three Months Ended February 26, 2006 and February 27, 2005  

Note A   Earnings
(Loss) Per Share   

Basic earnings per share is computed
by dividing earnings on common shares by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during each period. Diluted earnings per share reflect per share amounts that
would have resulted if dilutive potential common stock had been converted to common stock.
For the three months ended February 26, 2006 and February 27, 2005, convertible preferred
stock and exercisable stock options were not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per share because the effect of converting preferred stock and exercising stock
options would be antidilutive due to the net loss reported.   

Note B  
Stock-Based Compensation   

In December 2004, the FASB issued a
revision of SFAS No. 123,  Share   Based Payment , (SFAS 123(R)), which
supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. Under SFAS
123(R), an entity is required to measure the cost of employee services received in
exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the
award, with such cost recognized over the applicable vesting period. In addition, SFAS
123(R) requires an entity to provide certain disclosures in order to assist in
understanding the nature of share-based payment transactions and the effects of those
transactions on the financial statements. The provisions of SFAS 123(R) were required to
be applied as of the beginning of the first annual reporting period that begins after June
15, 2005. Accordingly, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 123(R) at the beginning
of the first quarter ended February 26, 2006.   

Stock based employee compensation
expense is calculated using the fair value method in accordance with SFAS No. 123. The
fair value of each grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option
pricing model. On December 12, 2005, 68,000 options were granted to the Company s
officers with the exercise price equaling the closing price of the common shares on that
date. The options were valued using the following assumptions: dividend yield of 0.0%,
expected volatility of 33.1%, risk free interest rate of 4.56%, and expected life of 5.8
years. The expense recorded for these options in the first quarter ended February 26, 2006
was $8,797.   

On October 25, 2005, the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors accelerated the vesting of the then outstanding and
unvested employee stock options. Had these vesting periods not been accelerated, in
accordance with SFAS 123(R), the Company would have recognized approximately $1,135,000 in
cumulative expense spread over the subsequent four years beginning in fiscal 2006.   

9   

Meritage Hospitality
Group Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited
Financial Statements For the Three Months Ended February 26, 2006 and February 27, 2005  

Note C  
Guarantees, Commitments and Contingencies   

In July 2004, the Company made a
payment of $272,035 to the Michigan Department of Treasury ( Treasury ) related
to a tax claim for years 1997 through 2001. This payment, which included interest and
penalties, resulted in a charge to earnings of $168,000, representing the difference
between what the Company accrued as an estimated settlement of this tax claim, and the
actual amount of the final assessment from Treasury. Shortly after making this payment,
the Company filed a claim against Treasury to recover the entire amount of the payment.
The Company s position is that the tax payment, which is related to fees that were
paid to its franchisor Wendy s International, should be refunded because the fees at
issue were incorrectly characterized as a  royalty  by Treasury, and therefore
no tax is due from the Company related to these fees. At February 26, 2006, the claim
status was pending the outcome of a similar case under appeal.   

Under its development agreement with
O Charley s Inc., the Company is required to open a minimum of ten additional
restaurants by July 2010; one in 2006, two in 2007, three each in 2008 and 2009 and one in
2010. The Company estimates that the total cost to open the additional
O Charley s restaurants will be approximately $28 to $32 million, or
approximately $2.8 to $3.2 million per restaurant, with land and site development being
the significant variables.   

The Company is party to several
agreements executed in the ordinary course of business that provide for indemnification of
third parties under specified circumstances. Generally, these agreements obligate the
Company to indemnify the third parties only if certain events occur or claims are made, as
these contingent events or claims are defined in each of these agreements. The Company is
not currently aware of circumstances that would require it to perform its indemnification
obligations under any of these agreements and, therefore, has not recorded a liability.   

The Company is involved in certain
routine legal proceedings which are incidental to its business. All of these proceedings
arose in the ordinary course of the Company s business and, in the opinion of the
Company, any potential liability of the Company with respect to these legal actions will
not, in the aggregate, be material to the Company s consolidated financial
statements. The Company maintains various types of insurance standard to the industry
which would cover most actions brought against the Company.   

10   

Meritage Hospitality
Group Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited
Financial Statements For the Three Months Ended February 26, 2006 and February 27, 2005  

Note D   Segment
Reporting   

The Company operates exclusively in
the food service industry and has determined that its reportable segments are those based
on the Company s methods of internal reporting and management structure. The Company
currently operates 48 Wendy s restaurants in Western and Southern Michigan in the
quick service restaurant industry. The operation of the Wendy s restaurants comprises
the Company s Wendy s of Michigan Business Segment. The Company also operates
five casual dining O Charley s restaurants throughout the State of Michigan. The
operation of the O Charley s restaurants comprises the Company s
O Charley s of Michigan Business Segment. There were no material amounts of
revenues or transfers among reportable segments. The following table presents information
on reportable segments for the three months ended February 26, 2006 and February 27, 2005:   

(1)   
                 
               Corporate level general and administrative expenses have been allocated between
               the two segments based on an allocation method determined by the Company.   

11   

Item 2.     Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   

Overview    

Meritage
is the nation s only publicly traded Wendy s franchisee, operating 48
quick-service Wendy s restaurants in Western and Southern Michigan. Since 1999,
Meritage has doubled the number of its Wendy s restaurants through new development.
These Wendy s restaurants operate in a highly competitive industry in which its
primary competitors (e.g., McDonald s, Burger King, Subway, etc.) aggressively market
their brands to create strong brand awareness and price and value perception. In recent
years, these competitors have also been discounting the prices on some of their primary
food products to increase customer traffic. Wendy s attempts to compete by using many
of the same strategies as its competitors, and also offers unique qualities such as the
use of fresh ground beef and freshly cut salads.   

Meritage
is also the first and only publicly traded O Charley s franchisee, operating
five O Charley s casual dining restaurants in Michigan. With the exception of
one county in Southeast Michigan, the Company holds the exclusive right to develop
O Charley s restaurants in Michigan. Pursuant to its development agreement with
O Charley s Inc., the Company is required to open ten additional restaurants by
2010. O Charley s is best known for the freshness and homemade quality of its
food, and a diverse menu featuring items such as hand-cut and aged steaks, freshly baked
yeast rolls, fresh cut salads with special recipe salad dressings and signature desserts.   

Since
September 2004, the Company completed seventeen sale and leaseback transactions of its
Wendy s restaurants, with approximately 55% of the cash being used to pay down debt.
The remaining cash primarily was used to expand its O Charley s business
segment. Due to recent losses, the Company also utilized a portion of the proceeds to
support its ongoing operations. The Company may enter into additional sale and leaseback
transactions as it expands its existing segments, if it identifies other franchising
opportunities or if additional funds are required for operational support.   

Prior
to preferred stock dividends of $213,000, the Company incurred a net loss of $1,273,000
during the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Results were unfavorably impacted by (i) weak
performances by both the Wendy s and O Charley s brands, (ii) a sluggish
Michigan economy which ranks among the worst in the United States, (iii) intense price
discounting by competitors, (iv) high fuel and energy costs that have diminished the
disposable income of its customer base, and (v) early operating investments in the
O Charley s concept. Where it maintains control, the Company has been successful
in minimizing costs and maintaining quality store operations. In addition, Michigan
recently passed legislation increasing the state s minimum wage by 44% over the next
two years. While labor costs are likely to increase, the Company is not able to fully
assess the overall impact as additional factors, which are not yet determinable, will need
to be considered.   

In
response to these challenges, the Company has reduced its overhead costs through labor
reductions and investments in technology. Between November 2005 and March 2006, the
Company eliminated and realigned management and administrative positions throughout its
organization. These efforts are expected to result in annual savings of approximately
$600,000 on a consolidated basis.   

In
addition, Wendy s announced new menu items in the first quarter of 2006 that are
expected to strengthen customer traffic and sales. These new items include the Frescata
Sandwich and three additions to the Garden Sensations salad line in 2006, and the
introduction of breakfast in 2007.   

12   

Results of Operations    

Wendy s of
Michigan Business Segment   

The
Company s 48 Wendy s restaurants constitute its Wendy s of Michigan
Business Segment. Corporate level general and administrative expenses have been allocated
to the Wendy s of Michigan Business Segment based on an allocation method determined
by the Company. The allocation is consistent with the prior year amount. Results of
operations are summarized below:   

Revenue   

Average
 same store sales  (i.e., food and beverage revenue for stores in full operation
during the first quarters of both 2005 and 2006) decreased by $21,413 or 8.5%. In the
first quarter of 2006, the Company continued to encounter several challenges consistent
with those experienced in 2005. Some of the negative factors impacting sales results
include (i) increased competition and aggressive price discounting by Meritage s
primary competitors, (ii) a weak Michigan economy that has diminished the disposable
income of our customer base, and (iii) ineffective national advertising and the lack of
new product development. In an effort to improve customer traffic and sales, Wendy s
International announced new menu items in the first quarter of 2006, including the
Frescata Sandwich and three additions to its Garden Sensations salad line. In addition,
Wendy s International announced that they will introduce breakfast in 2007. The   

13   

Company is optimistic that customer
traffic and sales will strengthen in response to the roll-out and promotion of these new
products. However, management cautions that the negative sales trend could continue into
the second quarter as it remains difficult to accurately predict the variables affecting
sales.   

Cost of Food and
Beverages   

The
cost of food and beverages decreased a full percentage point as a percent of sales. One
factor in the decrease was an approximate 3% drop in average beef prices during the first
quarter of 2006 as compared to 2005. Beef purchases represented approximately 23% of total
food purchases in the first quarters of 2006 and 2005. Meritage also experienced a drop in
bacon purchases stemming from recipe changes and a shift in product mix. These
improvements were partially offset by the reintroduction of the  99 Cent Super Value
Menu  which includes lower margin menu items. Meritage has little control over
certain areas of its food costs as the majority of its products are purchased under
contracts negotiated by Wendy s International. Where it maintains control, however,
the Company has kept food costs in line with guidelines established by Wendy s
International.   

Labor and Related
Expenses   

The
Company attempts to adjust staffing at its restaurants to correlate with changes in sales
volumes, while at the same time maintaining a high level of service. Labor and related
expenses decreased in the first quarter of 2006 as the Company was able to reduce its
hourly labor in conjunction with the sales decreases. However, certain staffing costs are
fixed in nature and cannot be reduced, regardless of sales volumes. Accordingly, as a
percent of sales, labor costs increased by a nominal amount.   

Other Operating Expenses   

Operating
expenses increased primarily due to increased rent expense from sale and leaseback
transactions (up by $163,000) and an increase in utility costs (up by $92,000). These
increases were partially offset by decreases to franchise fees, advertising, supplies and
other costs that are tied to sales fluctuations.   

General and
Administrative   

The
decrease in general and administrative expense is primarily attributable to a reduction in
professional service fees during the first quarter of fiscal 2006.   

Depreciation and
Amortization   

The
decrease in depreciation and amortization expense was mainly due to sale and leaseback
transactions as depreciation was replaced by rent.   

Interest Expense   

The
decrease in interest expense was attributable to the debt reduction from sale and
leaseback proceeds.   

14   

Debt Extinguishment
Charges   

In
the first quarter of 2005, the Company retired $5,857,000 of long-term indebtedness in
connection with the sale and leaseback transactions. The Company incurred $418,000 in
prepayment penalties and the related write-off of the remaining unamortized financing
costs associated with these loans. While there was one sale and leaseback transaction in
the first quarter of 2006, there was no retirement of debt as the debt associated with
that store was extinguished in fiscal 2005.   

Other Income   

In
the first quarter of 2006, the Company assisted the landlord of a Wendy s site to
locate a buyer for the real property and improvements comprising that site. In exchange
for its services, the Company received a nonrefundable finder s fee of $218,000. The
Company also recognized a $43,000 gain upon the sale of investment securities.   

O Charley s
of Michigan Business Segment   

The
Company s five O Charley s restaurants constitute its O Charley s
of Michigan Business Segment. Corporate level general and administrative expenses have
been allocated to the O Charley s of Michigan Business Segment based on an
allocation method determined by the Company. The allocation is consistent with the prior
year amount. Results of operations are summarized below:   

15   

Revenue   

The
above results reflect five stores that were in operation as of February 26, 2006, and two
stores as of February 27, 2005. Weekly sales per store in fiscal 2006 were significantly
below original projections. As a comparison, sales on Meritage s
O Charley s restaurants in operation during the full quarter were 32% lower than
the franchisor s weekly sales per restaurant during its 2005 fiscal year. Some of the
factors impacting these sales results include (i) the lack of brand awareness in our
market due primarily to the franchisor s failure to communicate the scope of media
and marketing required to successfully launch a new market, (ii) increased competition,
and (iii) a weak Michigan economy that has diminished the disposable income of our
customer base. To improve sales, the Company is planning to implement additional local
marketing strategies.   

Cost of Food and
Beverages   

As
a percent of sales, the cost of food and beverages increased approximately 0.9 percentage
points as compared to last year. With the exception of fresh produce and dairy products,
the Company buys nearly all of its food products from a commissary operated by
O Charley s Inc. The Company purchases much of its product on a  cost
plus  basis. Accordingly, Meritage relies upon its franchisor to forward buy some of
the commodities for which there are predictable, seasonal price fluctuations.   

Pre-opening Costs   

Start-up
and pre-opening costs are estimated at $200,000 per store and include, but are not limited
to, (i) payroll and payroll related expenses of training store management, (ii) travel and
related costs of new store opening teams, (iii) food giveaways during pre-opening
activities and (iv) recruiting. The pre-opening costs between the first quarters of 2005
and 2006 were comparable as one store was opened in each respective quarter.   

Labor and Related
Expenses   

As
a percent of sales, labor and related expenses decreased due to (i) the efficient
management of hourly labor as our stores mature, and (ii) a decrease in accrued store
bonuses.   

Other Operating Expenses   

Other
operating expense increased by $404,000 due to the addition of new stores but decreased as
a percent of sales from 30.1% to 29.6%. The decrease as a percent of sales is attributable
to many factors primarily relating to efficiencies realized with additional stores.   

General and
Administrative   

In
advance of opening its first O Charley s store, the Company hired a management
staff to support the required store growth. This led to a high general and administrative
expense in comparison to sales. Because the infrastructure was already in place to support
growth, additional general and administrative expenses have been minimal as more stores
have been added. However, because sales have been lower than projected, the Company has
taken steps to reduce general and administrative costs (see Liquidity and Capital
Resources below).   

16   

Depreciation and
Amortization   

The
increase in depreciation and amortization expense was mainly due to the increased number
of stores in operation.   

Interest Expense   

The
Company s long-term indebtedness increased as more stores were opened, thus resulting
in an increase in interest expense. Additionally, this indebtedness is at variable
interest rates which have been steadily rising during this period.   

Consolidated Operations   

Income Tax Expense   

In
accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes , the
Company regularly assesses the realizability of its deferred tax assets. Based on this
assessment and the recent cumulative pre-tax losses, the Company has fully reserved its
deferred tax asset.  

Liquidity and Capital
Resources     

Cash Flows   

Cash
and cash equivalents ( cash ) decreased $620,000, to $1,184,000, during the
three months ended February 26, 2006.   

Net
cash used in operating activities was $993,000, compared to $1,683,000 during the same
period in 2005, an improvement of $690,000. The improvement was due to (i) a $422,000
reduction of the net loss, after adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash
provided by operating activities but exclusive of changes in current assets and
liabilities, and (ii) a $788,000 decrease in current assets in the first quarter 2006
compared to a $98,000 increase during the first quarter of 2005. The cash increase from
these two items was offset by a 2006 first quarter net decrease in the current liabilities
of $994,000 as compared to a net decrease of $375,000 in the first quarter of 2005.   

Net
cash used in investing activities decreased $634,000, primarily due to the $546,000
reduction in purchases of property and equipment.   

Compared
to the first quarter of 2005, net cash provided by financing activities decreased
$3,399,000. This decrease was due to (i) an $8,672,000 reduction in proceeds from sale and
leaseback transactions, and (ii) a decrease of $962,000 in proceeds from long-term
obligations. At the same time, the principal payment of debt was $6,187,000 less when
compared to the same period last year (primarily the result of sale and leaseback
transactions).   

Financial Condition   

Prior
to preferred stock dividends of $213,000, the Company incurred a net loss of $1,273,000
during the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Results continue to be unfavorably impacted by
(i) weak performances by both the Wendy s and O Charley s brands, (ii) a
sluggish Michigan economy which ranks among the worst in the United States, (iii) intense
price discounting by competitors, (iv) high fuel and energy costs that have diminished the
disposable income of the Company s customer base, and (v) early   

17   

operating investments in the
O Charley s concept. Where it maintains control, the Company has been successful
in minimizing costs and maintaining quality store operations.   

Since
September 2004, the Company completed seventeen sale and leaseback transactions (three in
fiscal 2004, thirteen in fiscal 2005 and one in fiscal 2006). The Company collected
$26,435,000 in net proceeds, used $14,667,000 to pay down long-term indebtedness and
deposited $10,978,000 into the Company s treasury. The sales resulted in deferred
gains of $11,085,000 which are being amortized over the 20-year lease terms and recorded
as a reduction of base rent expense. The related early pay down of long-term indebtedness
resulted in finance charges of $1,055,000.   

Subject
to market conditions, the Company may enter into as many as seventeen additional sale and
leaseback transactions containing similar terms, and with related charges and deferred
gains. The Company anticipates that it would use approximately 60% of the pre-tax proceeds
to pay off long-term debt, with remaining net proceeds being deposited into the
Company s treasury and available for general corporate purposes, including new
restaurant development.   

Prior
to 2005, the Company relied upon its Wendy s operations to support its corporate
level overhead and meet its cash requirements and other commitments. However, due to
losses in fiscal 2005 and the first quarter of 2006, the Company s operational cash
flow has not been sufficient to cover its operating expenses. As a result, the Company has
utilized a portion of the proceeds from the sale and leaseback transactions to support its
ongoing operations.   

The
Company has several possible financing sources available in the event that operations do
not improve. These include (i) potential proceeds from sale and leaseback transactions,
(ii) $927,000 in notes receivable coming due in fiscal 2006, and (iii) a $5,000,000
forward financing commitment. Other options include deferring new store openings and
capital expenditures, and financing or leasing new restaurants or equipment packages.   

New
menu offerings and advertising campaigns undertaken by Wendy s International should
strengthen fiscal 2006 sales. Meritage is hopeful that O Charley s Inc. will
also undertake measures to enhance its brand reputation and increase sales. In the
meantime, the Company has reduced its overhead costs through labor reductions and
investments in technology. Between November 2005 and March 2006, the Company eliminated
and realigned management and administrative positions throughout its organization.
Additionally, the Company s Board of Directors consolidated the Chief Operating
Officer position into its existing officer base. These efforts are expected to result in
annual savings of approximately $600,000 on a consolidated basis.   

The
Company anticipates that it will have sufficient cash to meet its obligations for at least
the next twelve months. However, there can be no assurances that the Company will have
sufficient capital to meet its short-term and long-term cash requirements if operational
results do not improve or the possible cash sources detailed above do not yield the
expected results.   

At
February 26, 2006, the Company s working capital ratio (current assets to current
liabilities) was 0.41:1, versus 0.60:1 at November 27, 2005. Working capital is typically
negative as trade receivables and inventories are insignificant due to the transactional
nature of the business and the perishable nature of the inventory. However, the
Company s cash reserves are lower than historical averages and the Company has taken
the steps outlined above to reduce costs where it is able.   

18   

Some
of Meritage s loans and franchise agreements contain covenants requiring the
maintenance of certain financial ratios. The Company regularly reviews and analyzes its
covenants to ensure compliance. At February 26, 2006, the Company was in compliance with
all covenants. However, due to operational issues outlined above, the margin of compliance
related to certain financial ratios has become increasingly narrow in recent months. If
these operational trends continue, the Company could fall out of compliance with such
ratios. Through its sale and leaseback transactions, the Company has continued to reduce
its long-term obligations which also minimizes debt compliance concerns.   

The
Company currently has plans to open one additional Wendy s restaurant and one
additional O Charley s restaurant in fiscal 2006. Under its development
agreement with O Charley s Inc., the Company is required to open a minimum of
ten additional restaurants by July 2010; one in 2006, two in 2007, three each in 2008 and
2009 and one in 2010. The Company estimates that the total cost to open the additional
O Charley s restaurants will be approximately $28 to $32 million, or
approximately $2.8 to $3.2 million per restaurant, with land and site development being
the significant variables. Once constructed, these sites may provide the opportunity to
enter into additional sale and leaseback transactions. The Company already owns the land
for the additional O Charley s restaurant planned for 2006.   

Meritage s
expansion into the casual dining restaurant segment as a franchisee of
O Charley s Inc. subjects Meritage to various business and financial risks
including, without limitation, (i) unanticipated expenses or difficulties in securing
acceptance of the O Charley s brand (there currently is no national advertising
program in Michigan), (ii) the ability to successfully implement the O Charley s
development plan in Michigan, (iii) Meritage s limited experience in the casual
dining segment, and (iv) O Charley s Inc. s limited experience as a
franchisor. Failure or delay in completing the 15-store restaurant development agreement
could have an adverse effect on the Company s financial condition.   

The
Company has a forward financing commitment totaling $5,000,000 that it may, but is not
required to, utilize to finance the land and building for future O Charley s
restaurants. The commitment requires a minimum 15% equity investment by the Company of
appraised site and construction value. The commitment is for 10-year real estate mortgages
(20-year amortization) at interest rates defined in the loan commitment and allows the
Company to select either a fixed or variable interest rate. The commitments do not
contractually obligate the Company to borrow on any of the commitments as such loans are
made on a restaurant-by-restaurant basis.   

The
Company maintains a $2,600,000 credit facility comprised of two lines of credit, one for
general working capital purposes in the amount of $600,000 secured by inventory and
equipment of seven Wendy s restaurants and certain other receivables, and one for
restaurant development purposes in the amount of $2,000,000 secured by real estate
purchased with this facility. Commitments under the working capital and restaurant
development lines expire in April 2006 and April 2007, respectively, and require monthly
payments of interest only at a rate equal to the prime rate plus 0.25%. There were no
outstanding balances under the credit facility at February 26, 2006. In December 2005, the
Company borrowed $769,000 against the $2,000,000 line to purchase a land parcel for the
development of an O Charley s restaurant. That amount is still outstanding.   

In
March 2006, Michigan passed legislation increasing the state s minimum wage from
$5.15 per hour to $6.95 per hour in October 2006, $7.15 per hour in July 2007 and $7.40
per hour in July 2008. While labor costs are likely to increase, the Company is not able
to fully assess the overall impact as several additional factors, which are not yet
determinable, will need to be considered (e.g., the impact on employees earning higher
wages that are likely to increase as result of the minimum wage increase, potential labor
force reductions, competitor responses, potential menu pricing increases, etc.).   

19   

Critical Accounting
Policies    

The
Company s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of
operations are based upon the Company s consolidated financial statements, which have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses. The significant accounting policies are discussed in Note A of the
Company s consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto and
management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations
included in Meritage s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November
27, 2005. Certain of these accounting policies are subject to judgments and uncertainties,
which affect the application of these policies. The Company bases its estimates on
historical experience and other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances. The Company evaluates its estimates on an on-going basis. In the event
estimates or assumptions prove to be different from actual results, adjustments are made
in subsequent periods to reflect more current information. Management believes that any
subsequent revisions to estimates used would not have a material effect on the financial
condition or results of operations of the Company.   

The
Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 123(R) at the beginning of the first quarter ended
February 26, 2006. Under SFAS 123(R), an entity is required to measure the cost of
employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the
grant-date fair value of the award, with such cost recognized over the applicable vesting
period. On October 25, 2005, the Company s Compensation Committee accelerated the
vesting of all outstanding and unvested employee stock options. Had these vesting periods
not been accelerated, in accordance with SFAS 123(R), the Company would have recognized
approximately $1,135,000 in cumulative expense spread over the subsequent four years
beginning in fiscal 2006. The Company recorded an expense of $8,797 related to options
issued in the first quarter of 2006.   

Item 3.    Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.   

Because
all of Meritage s operations are in the United States, currency exposure is
eliminated. All of Meritage s debt is in U.S. dollars and approximately 64% of its
debt is at fixed interest rates which limits exposure to interest rate fluctuation.
Accordingly, Meritage does not utilize any derivatives to alter interest rate risk. In the
normal course of business, Meritage purchases certain products (primarily food items) that
can be affected by fluctuating commodity prices. Most of these products are purchased
under agreements negotiated by the Company s franchisors that are outside of
Meritage s control. It is the Company s understanding that its franchisors
utilize various purchasing and pricing techniques in an effort to minimize volatility.   

Item 4.    Controls and
Procedures.   

As
of February 26, 2006, an evaluation was completed under the supervision and with the
participation of the Company s management as to the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on that
evaluation, the Company s management concluded that the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of February 26, 2006. There have been no changes
to the Company s internal control over financial reporting identified in connection
with the evaluation required by Regulation 13a-15(d) that occurred during the first fiscal
quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
Meritage s internal control over financial reporting.   

20   

PART II OTHER INFORMATION   

Item 2.     Unregistered
Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.   

(c)       
          The following table summarizes Meritage s purchases of its common shares,
          par value $0.01 per share, for the quarter ending February 26, 2006:   

Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities   

(1)  
            
          In August 1999, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase from
          time to time, subject to capital availability, up to 200,000 shares of
          Meritage s common stock through open market transactions or otherwise. This
          program was announced in November 1999. In February 2002, the Board authorized
          the repurchase of up to an additional 200,000 common shares under this program.
          The additional authorization of share purchases was announced in February 2002.
          There is no expiration date relating to this program, but the Board is permitted
          to rescind the program at any time.   

Item 5.    Other
Information.   

The
Company opened its fifth O Charley s restaurant during the first fiscal quarter.
The new restaurant is located in Belleville, Michigan. The opening brings to 53 the total
number of Meritage s restaurants in operation.   

During
the first fiscal quarter of 2006, the Company declared and paid a $0.06 per common share
dividend to all shareholders of record as of January 27, 2006. This dividend marks a 20%
increase over the cash dividend paid in January 2005.   

21   

Item 6.    Exhibits.   

(a)       
           Exhibit List .   

Exhibits filed herewith.   

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.   

Dated:    March 29, 2006

MERITAGE HOSPITALITY GROUP INC.

By  /s/ Robert E. Schermer, Jr.           
     Robert E. Schermer, Jr. 
     Chief Executive Officer   

By  /s/ Gary A. Rose                     
      
     Gary A. Rose 
     Chief Financial Officer

22   

EXHIBIT INDEX   

Exhibits filed herewith.   

23   

<EX-31>
 2
 ex311022606.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 31.1 

Exhibit 31.1   

Certification of
Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Securities
and Exchange Act Rule
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)   

I, Robert E. Schermer, Jr., the principal executive officer of Meritage
Hospitality Group Inc., certify that:   

1.   
  I
have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Meritage Hospitality Group
          Inc.;    

2.   
  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
          material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
          made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
          misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;    

3.   
  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
          included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
          condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
          for, the periods presented in this report;    

4.   
  The
registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
          establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
          Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:    

(a)    
  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure           controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that           material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
          subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
          during the period in which this report is being prepared;    

(c)    
  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and           procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness           of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered           by this
report based on such evaluation; and    

(d)    
  Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control           over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
          fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
          annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
          materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
          reporting; and    

5.   
  The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
          our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
          registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board
of           directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):    

(a)    
  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation           of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
          adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize
and           report financial information; and    

(b)    
  Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees           who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
          financial reporting.    

Dated:   March 29, 2006  

/s/Robert E. Schermer, Jr.                
Robert E. Schermer, Jr. Principal Executive Officer  

</EX-31>

<EX-31>
 3
 ex312022606.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 31.2 

Exhibit 31.2   

Certification of
Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Securities
and Exchange Act Rule
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)   

I, Gary A. Rose, the principal
financial officer of Meritage Hospitality Group Inc., certify that:   

1.   
  I
have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Meritage Hospitality Group
          Inc.;    

2.   
  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
          material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
          made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
          misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;    

3.   
  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
          included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
          condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
          for, the periods presented in this report;    

4.   
  The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
          establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
          Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:    

(a)    
  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure           controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that           material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
          subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
          during the period in which this report is being prepared;    

(c)    
  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and           procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness           of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered           by this
report based on such evaluation; and    

(d)    
  Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control           over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
          fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
          annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
          materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
          reporting; and    

5.   
  The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
          our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
          registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board
of           directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):    

(a)    
  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation           of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
          adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize
and           report financial information; and    

(b)    
  Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees           who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
          financial reporting.    

Dated:   March 29, 2006  

/s/Gary A. Rose                
Gary A. Rose Principal Financial Officer  

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 4
 ex321022606.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 32.1 

Exhibit 32.1   

Certification of Chief
Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
  1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

In
connection with the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of the Quarterly
Report of Meritage Hospitality Group Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q for the
period ending February 26, 2006 (the  Report ), I, Robert E Schermer, Jr., Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted
pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my
knowledge:   

(1)   
            
          The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(2)   
            
          The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
          respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Dated:  March 29, 2006  
    
  MERITAGE HOSPITALITY GROUP INC.  
 BY: /s/Robert E. Schermer, Jr. 
                     
      Robert E. Schermer, Jr. 
      Chief Executive Officer  

A
signed original of this written statement required by  906 has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities   Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32>

<EX-32>
 5
 ex322022606.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Exhibit 32.2 

Exhibit 32.2   

Certification of Chief
Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
  1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

In
connection with the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of the Quarterly
Report of Meritage Hospitality Group Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q for the
period ending February 26, 2006 (the  Report ), I, Gary A. Rose, Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to
  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge:   

(1)   
            
          The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(2)   
            
          The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
          respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Dated:  March 29, 2006  
    
  MERITAGE HOSPITALITY GROUP INC.  
 By: /s/Gary A. Rose 
                     
      Gary A. Rose 
      Chief Financial Officer  

A
signed original of this written statement required by  906 has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities   Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32>

