<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060221_10-Q_edgar_data_1156445_0001084067-06-000033_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>72722</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>56021</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>409</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>7</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001084067-06-000033.hdr.sgml : 20060220
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060221113258
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001084067-06-000033
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060221
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060221

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI LP SERIES 9
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001156445
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS [6513]
		IRS NUMBER:				330974533
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0331

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-50315
		FILM NUMBER:		06631831

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		17782 SKY PARK CIRCLE
		CITY:			IRVINE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92614-6404
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7146625565

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		17782 SKY PARK CIRCLE
		CITY:			IRVINE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92614-6404

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 RfBksreCqPY1/EjbB69c12drDeZBx2aYqYoxfriV6Z/iZULFgfBComws/O9y+g9J
 ylbIEnSv3j+XIn7CBvr6ag==

 0001084067-06-000033.txt : 20060221

10-Q
 1
 n69q305.txt
 NAT 6-9 12/05

FORM 10-Q

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

(Mark One)

[X] QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934

                For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2005

                                       OR

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934

             For the transition period from           to
                                           -----------  -----------
                      Commission file number: 333-76435-01

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., Series 9

California 33-0761517
                (State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. Employer
               incorporation or organization) Identification No.)

                              17782 Sky Park Circle
                                Irvine, CA 92614
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (714) 662-5565
                               (Telephone number)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes         No    X
   ---------  ---------

Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  registrant  is an  accelerated  filer (as
defined in rule 12b-2 of the Exchan ge Act).

Yes         No    X
   ---------  ---------

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., SERIES 9
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

INDEX TO FORM 10-Q

                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     Item 1. Financial Statements

     Balance Sheets
         December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005..................................3

     Statements of Operations
         For the Three and Nine Months Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004........4

     Statement of Partners' Equity (Deficit)
         For the Nine Months Ended December 31, 2005...........................5

     Statements of Cash Flows
         For the Nine Months Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004..................6

     Notes to Financial Statements.............................................7

     Item 2.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
              Condition and Results of Operations.............................14

     Item 3.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk......15

     Item 4.  Controls and Procedures.........................................15

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

     Item 1.  Legal Proceedings...............................................16

     Item 2.  Changes in Securities and Use of Proceed........................16

     Item 3.  Defaults Upon Senior Securities.................................16

     Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.............16

     Item 5.  Other Information...............................................16

     Item 6.  Exhibits........................................................16

     Signatures...............................................................17

2

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., SERIES 9
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                                 BALANCE SHEETS
 
                 See accompanying notes to financial statements
                                       3

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., SERIES 9
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                            STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

         For the Three and Nine Months Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004
                                   (unaudited)

See accompanying notes to financial statements
                                        4
 
                 WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., SERIES 9
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                     STATEMENT OF PARTNERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)

                   For the Nine Months Ended December 31, 2005
                                  (unaudited)

See accompanying notes to financial statements
                                        5
 
                 WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., SERIES 9
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                             STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

              For the Nine Months Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004
                                   (unaudited)

See accompanying notes to financial statements
                                        6
 
                 WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., SERIES 9
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                          NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
- ---------------------------------------------------
General
- -------
The accompanying  condensed unaudited financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q
for quarterly  reports under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange Act
of 1934.  Accordingly,  they do not include all of the information and footnotes
required by  accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the United States of
America for complete  financial  statements.  In the opinion of management,  all
adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a
fair  presentation  have been  included.  Operating  results for the nine months
ended December 31, 2005 are not  necessarily  indicative of the results that may
be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006. For further  information,
refer  to  the  financial  statements  and  footnotes  thereto  included  in the
Partnership's  annual  report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended  March 31,
2005.

Organization
- ------------
WNC Housing Tax Credit Fund VI, L.P., Series 9, a California Limited Partnership
(the "Partnership"),  was formed on July 17, 2001 under the laws of the state of
California,  and commenced  operations on August 3, 2001,  the effective date of
its  public  offering  pursuant  to the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission's
approval  of the  Partnership's  Pre-Effective  Amendment  No.  1 to  Form  S-11
initially filed on August 16, 2001. Prior to August 3, 2001, the Partnership was
considered a development-stage  enterprise. The Partnership was formed to invest
primarily in other limited  partnerships  and limited  liability  companies (the
"Local  Limited  Partnerships")  which  own  and  operate  multi-family  housing
complexes  (the "Housing  Complex") that are eligible for Low Income Housing Tax
Credits. The local general partners (the "Local General Partners") of each Local
Limited  Partnership  retain  responsibility  for  maintaining,   operating  and
managing the Housing Complex.

The  general  partner  is  WNC &  Associates,  Inc.  ("WNC")  or  (the  "General
Partner"),  a California  limited  partnership.  The chairman and  president own
substantially  all  of  the  outstanding  stock  of  WNC.  The  business  of the
Partnership is conducted  primarily  through WNC, as the Partnership and General
Partner have no employees of its own.

The Partnership shall continue in full force and effect until December 31, 2062,
unless terminated prior to that date,  pursuant to the partnership  agreement or
law.

The financial  statements  include only activity relating to the business of the
Partnership,  and do not give  effect to any assets that the  partners  may have
outside of their interests in the Partnership, or to any obligations,  including
income taxes, of the partners.

The  Partnership  agreement  authorized the sale of up to 25,000 units at $1,000
per  Unit  ("Units").   As  of  March  31,  2004,  15,325  Units,   representing
subscriptions  in the amount of $15,316,125,  net of dealer  discounts of $7,350
and volume  discounts of $1,525,  had been accepted.  The General  Partner has a
0.1% interest in operating  profits and losses,  taxable  income and losses,  in
cash  available  for  distribution  from the  Partnership  and tax credits.  The
Limited Partners will be allocated the remaining 99.9% interest in proportion to
their respective investments.

After the Limited  Partners  have received  proceeds from a sale or  refinancing
equal to their capital  contributions and their return on investment (as defined
in the  Partnership  Agreement)  and the General  Partner has received  proceeds
equal  to its  capital  contribution  and a  subordinated  disposition  fee  (as
described in Note 4) from the  remainder,  any  additional  sale or  refinancing
proceeds will be distributed 90% to the Limited Partners (in proportion to their
respective investments) and 10% to the General Partner.

                                       7

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., SERIES 9
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Certain Risks and Uncertainties
- -------------------------------
An investment in the  Partnership  and the  Partnership's  investments  in Local
Limited  Partnerships  and their Housing  Complexes are subject to risks.  These
risks may impact the tax benefits of an investment in the  Partnership,  and the
amount of proceeds  available for distribution to the Limited Partners,  if any,
on liquidation of the Partnership's investments. Some of those risks include the
following:

The  Low  Income   Housing  Tax  Credits   rules  are   extremely   complicated.
Noncompliance  with these rules results in the loss of future Low Income Housing
Tax  Credits  and the  fractional  recapture  of Low Income  Housing Tax Credits
already taken. In most cases the annual amount of Low Income Housing Tax Credits
that an  individual  can use is limited to the tax liability due on the person's
last $25,000 of taxable income. The Local Limited  Partnerships may be unable to
sell the Housing  Complexes  at a price which  would  result in the  Partnership
realizing cash distributions or proceeds from the transaction.  Accordingly, the
Partnership  may be unable to distribute any cash to its Limited  Partners.  Low
Income  Housing Tax Credits may be the only  benefit from an  investment  in the
Partnership.

The Partnership has invested in a limited number of Local Limited  Partnerships.
Such  limited  diversity  means that the  results of  operation  of each  single
Housing  Complex  will have a greater  impact on the  Partnership.  With limited
diversity,   poor   performance   of  one  Housing   Complex  could  impair  the
Partnership's ability to satisfy its investment objectives. Each Housing Complex
is subject to mortgage  indebtedness.  If a Local Limited  Partnership failed to
pay its  mortgage,  it  could  lose  its  Housing  Complex  in  foreclosure.  If
foreclosure  were to occur during the first 15 years,  the loss of any remaining
future Low Income  Housing Tax  Credits,  a  fractional  recapture  of prior Low
Income Housing Tax Credits,  and a loss of the  Partnership's  investment in the
Housing   Complex  would  occur.   The  Partnership  is  a  limited  partner  or
non-managing  member  of  each  Local  Limited  Partnership.   Accordingly,  the
Partnership  will have very  limited  rights with respect to  management  of the
Local  Limited  Partnerships.  The  Partnership  will rely  totally on the Local
General  Partners.  Neither  the  Partnership's  investments  in  Local  Limited
Partnerships,  nor  the  Local  Limited  Partnerships'  investments  in  Housing
Complexes,  are readily marketable.  To the extent the Housing Complexes receive
government financing or operating subsidies,  they may be subject to one or more
of the  following  risks:  difficulties  in  obtaining  tenants  for the Housing
Complexes;  difficulties  in  obtaining  rent  increases;  limitations  on  cash
distributions;  limitations  on  sales  or  refinancing  of  Housing  Complexes;
limitations on transfers of interests in Local Limited Partnerships; limitations
on removal of Local  General  Partners;  limitations  on subsidy  programs;  and
possible changes in applicable regulations. Uninsured casualties could result in
loss of property and Low Income  Housing Tax Credits and recapture of Low Income
Housing Tax  Credits  previously  taken.  The value of real estate is subject to
risks  from  fluctuating  economic   conditions,   including  employment  rates,
inflation,  tax, environmental,  land use and zoning policies, supply and demand
of similar properties, and neighborhood conditions, among others.

The  ability of Limited  Partners to claim tax losses  from the  Partnership  is
limited.  The IRS may audit the  Partnership or a Local Limited  Partnership and
challenge the tax treatment of tax items.  The amount of Low Income  Housing Tax
Credits and tax losses allocable to the limited partners could be reduced if the
IRS were  successful  in such a  challenge.  The  alternative  minimum tax could
reduce tax benefits from an investment in the  Partnership.  Changes in tax laws
could also impact the tax benefits from an investment in the Partnership  and/or
the value of the Housing Complexes.

No trading  market  for the Units  exists or is  expected  to  develop.  Limited
partners  may be unable to sell  their  Units  except at a  discount  and should
consider their Units to be a long-term  investment.  Individual limited partners
will have no recourse if they disagree with actions  authorized by a vote of the
majority of Limited Partners.

                                       8

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., SERIES 9
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Anticipated  future and  existing  cash  resources  of the  Partnership  are not
sufficient   to  pay  existing   liabilities   of  the   Partnership.   However,
substantially all of the existing  liabilities of the Partnership are payable to
the General  Partner and/or its  affiliates.  Though the amounts  payable to the
General Partner and/or its affiliates are contractually  currently payable,  the
Partnership  anticipates that the General Partner and/or its affiliates will not
require the payment of these contractual  obligations until capital reserves are
in excess of the aggregate of then  existing  contractual  obligations  and then
anticipated future foreseeable  obligations of the Partnership.  The Partnership
would be adversely  affected  should the General  Partner  and/or its affiliates
demand current  payment of the existing  contractual  obligations and or suspend
services for this or any other reason.

Method of Accounting for Investments in Limited Partnerships
- ------------------------------------------------------------
The Partnership  accounts for its investments in limited  partnerships using the
equity method of  accounting,  whereby the  Partnership  adjusts its  investment
balance for its share of the Local Limited  Partnerships'  results of operations
and for any  contributions  made and  distributions  received.  The  Partnership
reviews the  carrying  amount of an  individual  investment  in a Local  Limited
Partnership for possible  impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying  amount of such  investment  may not be  recoverable.
Recoverability  of such investment is measured by the estimated value derived by
management,  generally  consisting of the sum of the remaining future Low Income
Housing  Tax  Credits  estimated  to be  allocated  to the  Partnership  and the
estimated  residual value to the Partnership.  If an investment is considered to
be impaired,  the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which
the  carrying  amount of the  investment  exceeds  fair  value.  The  accounting
policies of the Local Limited  Partnerships are generally  consistent with those
of  the  Partnership.  Costs  incurred  by  the  Partnership  in  acquiring  the
investments  are  capitalized  as part of the  investment  account and are being
amortized over 30 years (see Note 2).

Equity in losses of Limited Partnerships for the periods ended December 31, 2005
and 2004 have been recorded by the Partnership  based on Nine months of reported
results  estimated by management of the Partnership.  Management's  estimate for
the Nine-month  period is based on either actual  unaudited  results reported by
the Local Limited  Partnerships  or historical  trends in the  operations of the
Local Limited  Partnerships.  In subsequent  annual financial  statements,  upon
receiving the actual annual results reported by the Local Limited  Partnerships,
management  reverses its prior estimate and records the actual results  reported
by  the  Local  Limited   Partnerships.   Equity  in  losses  from  the  Limited
Partnerships  allocated to the Partnership are not recognized to the extent that
the  investment  balance would be adjusted below zero. As soon as the investment
balance  reaches  zero,  amortization  of the  related  costs of  acquiring  the
investment are  accelerated  to the extent of losses  available (see Note 2). If
the  Local  Limited   Partnerships  report  net  income  in  future  years,  the
Partnership  will resume applying the equity method only after its share of such
net income  equals the share of net losses not  recognized  during the period(s)
the equity method was suspended.

Distributions  received by Limited  Partners are accounted for as a reduction of
the investment balance.  Distributions received after the investment has reached
zero are recognized as income.

Offering Expenses
- -----------------
Offering  expenses consist of underwriting  commissions,  legal fees,  printing,
filing and  recordation  fees,  and other costs  incurred  with selling  limited
partnership  interests in the Partnership.  WNC is obligated to pay all offering
and  organization  costs in excess of 13% (including  sales  commissions) of the
total  offering  proceeds.  Offering  expenses  are  reflected as a reduction of
limited  partners' capital and amounted to $1,983,375 at the end of December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively.

                                       9

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., SERIES 9
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Exit Strategy
- -------------
The IRS  compliance  period for Low Income  Housing  Tax  Credit  properties  is
generally  15 years from  occupancy  following  construction  or  rehabilitation
completion.  WNC was one of the first in the industry to offer investments using
the tax credit.  Now these very first programs are completing  their  compliance
period.

With that in mind, we are continuing our review of the  Partnership's  holdings,
with special  emphasis on the more mature  properties  including those that have
satisfied the IRS compliance requirements. Our review will consider many factors
including  extended  use  requirements  on the  property  (such as those  due to
mortgage  restrictions  or state  compliance  agreements),  the condition of the
property,  and the tax consequences to the Limited Partners from the sale of the
property.

Upon identifying  those  properties with the highest  potential for a successful
sale, refinancing or syndication, we expect to proceed with efforts to liquidate
those  properties.  Our  objective is to maximize the Limited  Partners'  return
wherever  possible  and,  ultimately,  to wind down  those  funds that no longer
provide tax benefits to Limited  Partners.  However,  Local Limited  Partnership
interests may be disposed of at any time by WNC in its  discretion.  To date, no
properties in the Partnership have been selected.

Use of Estimates
- ----------------
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally  accepted in the United States of America requires  management to make
estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets and
liabilities  and disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities at the date of
the  financial  statements,  and the  reported  amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting  period.  Actual results could materially differ from those
estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents
- -------------------------
The Partnership considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities
of three months or less when  purchased to be cash  equivalents.  As of December
31, 2005 and 2004, the Partnership had no cash equivalents.

Concentration of Credit Risk
- ----------------------------
At December  31,  2005,  the  Partnership  maintained  cash  balances at certain
financial   institutions  in  excess  of  the  federally  insured  maximum.  The
Partnership  believes it is not  exposed to any  significant  financial  risk on
cash.

Net Loss Per Limited Partner Unit
- ---------------------------------
Net loss per limited  partnership  unit is  calculated  pursuant to Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 128,  Earnings Per Share. Net loss per unit
includes no dilution  and is computed  by  dividing  loss  available  to Limited
Partners by the weighted average number of units outstanding  during the period.
Calculation of diluted net loss per unit is not required.

Income Taxes
- ------------
No provision  for income taxes has been recorded in the  accompanying  financial
statements  as any  liability  and/or  benefits for income taxes as income taxes
flows to the partners of the Partnership and is their obligation and/or benefit.
For income tax purposes the Partnership reports on a calendar year basis.

Revenue Recognition
- -------------------
The  Partnership  is entitled to receive  reporting  fees from the Local Limited
Partnerships.  The  intent  of  the  reporting  fees  is  to  offset  (in  part)
administrative costs incurred by the Partnership in corresponding with the Local
Limited  Partnerships.  Due to the  uncertainty of the collection of these fees,
the Partnership recognizes reporting fees as collections are made.

                                       10

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., SERIES 9
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Reporting Comprehensive Income
- ------------------------------
The  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No. 130,  Reporting
Comprehensive  Income  established  standards  for the  reporting and display of
comprehensive  income (loss) and its components in a full set of general-purpose
financial statements. The Partnership had no items of other comprehensive income
for all periods presented, as defined by SFAS No. 130.

New Accounting Pronouncements
- -----------------------------
As of March 31,  2004,  the  Partnership  adopted FASB  Interpretation  No. 46 -
Revised,  Consolidation  of  Variable  Interest  Entities  ("FIN46R").  FIN  46R
provides  guidance as to when a company should include the assets,  liabilities,
and  activities  of  a  variable   interest  entity  ("VIE")  in  its  financial
statements,   and  when  a  company  should  disclose   information   about  its
relationship  with a VIE. A VIE is a legal structure used to conduct  activities
or hold assets, and a VIE must be consolidated by a company if it is the primary
beneficiary  because a primary  beneficiary absorbs the majority of the entity's
expected losses, the majority of the expected residual returns, or both.

Under FIN 46R, the Local Limited  Partnerships in which the Partnership  invests
are VIEs. However,  management does not consolidate the Partnership's  interests
in these VIE's under FIN46R,  as the  Partnership  is not considered the primary
beneficiary.  Rather,  the  Partnership  currently  records  the  amount  of the
investment in the Local Limited  Partnerships  as an asset in the balance sheet,
and  recognizes  its share of Local  Limited  Partnership  income or loss in the
statement of operations.

The Partnership's balance in its investment in Local Limited Partnerships,  plus
the risk of recapture of tax credits previously recognized on these investments,
represents its maximum exposure to loss. The  Partnership's  exposure to loss is
mitigated  by  the  condition  and  financial   performance  of  the  underlying
properties,  as well as the  strength of the Local  General  Partners  and their
guarantee against credit recapture.

In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154
("SFAS 154"), "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections" which provides guidance
on the  accounting  for and  reporting of accounting  changes and  correction of
errors.  This  statement  changes the  requirements  for the  accounting for and
reporting  of a change in  accounting  principle  and  applies to all  voluntary
changes in  accounting  principle.  It also  applies to changes  required  by an
accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not
include  specific  transition  provisions.   This  statement  is  effective  for
accounting  changes and  corrections  of errors made in fiscal  years  beginning
after December 15, 2005. The  Partnership  does not anticipate a material effect
upon the adoption of this statement.

NOTE 2 - INVESTMENTS IN LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS
- --------------------------------------------
As of the periods  presented,  the Partnership has acquired limited  partnership
interests in thirteen Local Limited  Partnerships in which each owns one Housing
Complex  except for one which owns three Housing  Complexes.  Collectively,  the
Housing Complexes consist of an aggregate of 506 apartment units. The respective
Local General Partners of the Local Limited  Partnerships  manage the day to day
operations  of the entities.  Significant  Local  Limited  Partnership  business
decisions require approval from the Partnership.  The Partnership,  as a limited
partner,  is  generally  entitled  to 99%,  as  specified  in the Local  Limited
Partnership agreements,  of the operating profits and losses, taxable income and
losses, and tax credits of the Local Limited Partnerships.

Equity  in  losses  of the  local  limited  partnerships  is  recognized  in the
financial  statements until the related investments account is reduced to a zero
balance.  Losses incurred after the  investments  account is reduced to zero are
not recognized.  If the Local Limited  Partnerships  report net income in future
years,  the  Partnership  will resume  applying the equity method only after its
share of such net income  equals the share of net losses not  recognized  during
the period(s) the equity method was suspended.

                                       11

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., SERIES 9
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 2 - INVESTMENTS IN LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS, continued
- -------------------------------------------------------
The following is a summary of the equity method  activity of the  investments in
Local Limited Partnerships for the periods presented:
 
Selected  financial  information for the nine months ended December 31, 2005 and
2004 from the unaudited combined condensed  financial  statements of the limited
partnerships in which the partnership has invested is as follows:

Certain Local Limited  Partnerships have incurred  significant  operating losses
and/or have  working  capital  deficiencies.  In the event  these Local  Limited
Partnerships continue to incur significant operating losses,  additional capital
contributions  by the  Partnership  and/or  the Local  General  Partners  may be
required to sustain operations of such Local Limited Partnerships. If additional
capital  contributions  are not made when they are required,  the  Partnership's
investments in certain of such Local Limited Partnerships could be impaired, and
the loss and recapture of the related tax credits could occur.

                                       12
 
                 WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., SERIES 9
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED
                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 3 - RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
- -----------------------------------
The Partnership has no officers,  employees,  or directors.  However,  under the
terms of the  Partnership  Agreement the Partnership is obligated to the General
Partner or its  affiliates  during the current or future years for the following
fees:

(a)  Acquisition  fees of 7% of the  gross  proceeds  from  the sale of Units as
     compensation  for services  rendered in connection  with the acquisition of
     Local Limited  Partnerships.  For all periods  presented,  the  Partnership
     incurred acquisition fees of $1,072,750.  Accumulated amortization of these
     capitalized  costs was  $117,356  and $90,533 as of  December  31, 2005 and
     March 31, 2005, respectively.

(b)  Acquisition  costs of 2% of the  gross  proceeds  from the sale of Units as
     full  reimbursement  of costs incurred by the General Partner in connection
     with  the  acquisition  of  Local  Limited  Partnerships.  For all  periods
     presented,   the  Partnership   incurred  acquisition  costs  of  $306,500.
     Accumulated amortization of these capitalized costs was $33,085 and $25,423
     as of December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005, respectively.

(c)  An annual asset  management  fee not to exceed 0.5% of the invested  assets
     (defined as the Partnership's  capital  contributions  plus reserves of the
     Partnership of up to 5% of gross proceeds plus its allocable  percentage of
     the mortgage debt  encumbering the housing  complexes) of the Local Limited
     Partnerships.  Asset management fees of $108,282 and $108,831 were incurred
     for the nine months  ended  December 31, 2005 and 2004,  respectively.  The
     Partnership paid the General Partner or its affiliates  $33,752 and $25,000
     of these fees  during the nine  months  ended  December  31, 2005 and 2004,
     respectively.

(d)  A subordinated  disposition fee in an amount equal to 1% of the sales price
     of real estate  sold.  Payment of this fee is  subordinated  to the Limited
     Partners  receiving a return on investment  (as defined in the  Partnership
     Agreement)  and is payable  only if the General  Partner or its  affiliates
     render services in the sales effort.

(e)  The  Partnership  reimburses  the  General  Partner or its  affiliates  for
     operating expenses incurred on behalf of the Partnership. Operating expense
     reimbursements  were  $28,810  and  $13,975  during the nine  months  ended
     December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Accrued fees and expenses due to the General Partner and affiliates consisted of
the following as of:

NOTE 4 - PAYABLES TO LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS
- -----------------------------------------
Payables to Limited Partnerships  amounting to $110,891 and $440,626 at December
31, 2005 and March 31, 2005,  respectively  represent amounts,  which are due at
various  times  based  on  conditions   specified  in  the  respective   Limited
Partnership agreements.  These contributions are payable in installments and are
generally due upon the Limited  Partnerships  achieving certain  development and
operating  benchmarks  (generally within two years of the Partnership's  initial
investment).

                                       13

Item 2. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

Forward-Looking Statements

With  the  exception  of  the  discussion  regarding   historical   information,
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations"  and  other   discussions   elsewhere  in  this  Form  10-Q  contain
forward-looking  statements.  Such statements are based on current  expectations
subject to uncertainties and other factors,  which may involve known and unknown
risks that could cause actual  results of operations to differ  materially  from
those  projected or implied.  Further,  certain  forward-looking  statements are
based upon assumptions about future events, which may  not prove to be accurate.

Risks and uncertainties inherent in forward-looking  statements include, but are
not  limited  to,  our  future  cash  flows and  ability  to  obtain  sufficient
financing, level of operating expenses, conditions in the Low Income Housing Tax
Credit property market and the economy in general, as well as legal proceedings.
Historical  results are not necessarily  indicative of the operating results for
any future period.

Subsequent  written and oral  forward-looking  statements  attributable to us or
persons  acting on our behalf  are  expressly  qualified  in their  entirety  by
cautionary  statements  in this Form 10-Q and in other reports we filed with the
Securities and Exchange  Commission.  The following discussion should be read in
conjunction  with the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements and the Notes thereto
included elsewhere in this filing.

The following discussion and analysis compares the results of operations for the
three and nine months ended  December  31, 2005 and 2004,  and should be read in
conjunction   with  the  condensed   consolidated   financial   statements   and
accompanying notes included within this report.

Financial Condition

The Partnership's assets at December 31, 2005 consisted primarily of $364,000 in
cash and aggregate  investments  in the thirteen Local Limited  Partnerships  of
$10,511,000. Liabilities at December 31, 2005 consisted primarily of $111,000 of
notes payable to local limited partnerships and $379,000 in accrued expenses and
management fees due to the General Partner and/or its affiliates.

Results of Operations

Three Months Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to the Three Months Ended December
31, 2004.  The  Partnership's  net loss for the three months ended  December 31,
2005 was $(212,000), reflecting a decrease of approximately $26,000 from the net
loss of $(238,000) experienced for the three months ended December 31, 2004. The
decrease  in net loss is  primarily  due to a decrease  of equity in losses from
limited partnerships of $23,000 due to losses of $(185,000) for the three months
ended  December 31, 2004 compared to losses of  $(162,000)  for the three months
ended December 31, 2005. During 2005, properties were stabilizing as such losses
were less than in 2004. In addition to the decrease in the equity in losses from
limited  partnerships,  the loss from  operations  decreased  by $3,000 due to a
decrease in operating expenses of approximately $2,000 along with an increase of
$1,000 in reporting  fee income for the three months ended  December 31, 2005 as
compared to the three months ended  December 31, 2004.  The decrease in expenses
is due to a decrease of $2,000 for legal and accounting expenses.

Nine Months Ended  December 31, 2005 Compared to the Nine Months Ended  December
31, 2004. The Partnership's net loss for the nine months ended December 31, 2005
was $(650,000), reflecting a decrease of $60,000 from the net loss of $(710,000)
experienced  for the nine months ended  December  31, 2004.  The decrease in net
loss  is  primarily  due  to  a  decrease  of  equity  in  losses  from  limited
partnerships  of $70,000 due to losses of  $(555,000)  for the nine months ended
December  31, 2004  compared to losses of  $(485,000)  for the nine months ended
December 31, 2005. During 2005,  properties were stabilizing as such losses were
less than in 2004.  The decrease of equity in losses from  limited  partnerships
was offset by the loss from operations which increased by $(10,000) for the nine
months ended  December 31, 2005  compared to the nine months ended  December 31,
2004.  The  increase  in loss from  operations  is  primarily  attributed  to an
increase of $(10,000) in legal and  accounting  expenses.  Interest  income also
decreased by $(2,000)  which was offset by a $2,000  increase in  reporting  fee
income.

                                       14

Item 2. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations-continued.

Cash Flows

Nine Months Ended  December 31, 2005 Compared to the Nine Months Ended  December
31, 2004.  Net  decrease in cash during the nine months ended  December 31, 2005
was  $(338,000),  compared to a net  decrease in cash for the nine months  ended
December 31, 2004 of $(1,014,000)  reflect a net change of $676,000.  The change
in net  cash is due to a  decrease  of  cash  used in  investing  activities  of
$699,000  primarily  due to a decrease of  payments on notes  payable to Limited
Partnerships  of $693,000 and a $6,000 increase of  distributions  received from
Limited  Partnerships.  There  was an  increase  of  $(23,000)  in cash  used in
operating  activities due to the $(13,000) decrease in accrued fees and expenses
due to the General Partner and affiliates  along with the $(10,000)  increase in
legal and accounting fees.

Item 3.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

         NOT APPLICABLE

Item 4. Controls and Procedures

As of the end of the period covered by this report,  the  Partnership's  General
Partner, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial  Officer of Associates  carried out an evaluation of
the effectiveness of the Fund's "disclosure  controls and procedures" as defined
in  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934  Rule  13a-15  and  15d-15.  Based on that
evaluation,  the Chief Executive  Officer and Principal  Financial  Officer have
concluded  that  as of  the  end of the  period  covered  by  this  report,  the
Partnership's  disclosure controls and procedures were adequate and effective in
timely  alerting  them  to  material  information  relating  to the  Partnership
required to be included in the Partnership's periodic SEC filings.

Changes  in  internal  controls.  There  were no  changes  in the  Partnership's
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended
December  31,  2005  that  materially  affected,  or are  reasonably  likely  to
materially affect, the Partnership's internal control over  financial reporting.

                                       15

Part II. OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1.  Legal Proceedings

         NONE

Item 2.  Changes in Securities and Use of Proceeds

         NONE

Item 3.  Defaults Upon Senior Securities

         NONE

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         NONE

Item 5.  Other Information

         NONE

Item 6.  Exhibits

31.1     Certification of the Principal Executive Officer pursuant  to Rule 13a-
         14 and 15d-14, as adopted pursuant to section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
         Act of 2003. (filed herewith)

31.2     Certification of the Principal  Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-
         14 and 15d-14, as adopted pursuant to section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
         Act of 2003. (filed herewith)

32.1     Section  1350  Certification  of  the  Chief  Executive  Officer.(filed
         herewith)

32.2     Section  1350  Certification  of  the  Chief  Financial  Officer.(filed
         herewith)

                                       16

Pursuant  to the  requirements  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of  1934,  the
registrant  has duly  caused  this  report  to be  signed  on its  behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., Series 9
(Registrant)

By:   WNC & Associates, Inc., General Partner

By:   /s/ Wilfred N. Cooper, Jr.
      --------------------------
Wilfred N. Cooper, Jr.
President and Chief Operating Officer of WNC & Associates, Inc.

Date: February 17, 2006

By:  /s/ Thomas J. Riha
     ------------------
Thomas J. Riha
Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer of WNC & Associates, Inc.

Date:  February 17, 2006

17

<EX-31>
 2
 ex311nt69.txt
 EX31-1 NAT 6-9
 
                              Exhibit 31-1
                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Wilfred N. Cooper, Jr., certify that:

1.   I have  reviewed  this  quarterly  report on Form 10-Q of WNC  HOUSING  TAX
     CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., Series 9;

2.   Based on my knowledge,  this  quarterly  report does not contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to
     make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such
     statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this quarterly report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information  included  in this  quarterly  report,  fairly  present  in all
     material respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash
     flows of the  registrant  as of, and for,  the  periods  presented  in this
     quarterly  report. As discussed in its cover letter to its annual report on
     Form 10-K for the year ended  March 31,  2005,  WNC Housing Tax Credit Fund
     VI, L.P., Series 9 (the "Partnership") was unable to obtain an audit of its
     financial statements included in such annual report performed in accordance
     with the  standards of the PCAOB.  This was due to the  inability to obtain
     audits of financial statements of the entities in which the Partnership has
     invested (the "Local Limited  Partnerships")  performed in accordance  with
     the  standards  of the  PCAOB.  (Audit  opinions,  which the  Partnership's
     auditors  originally  intended to rely upon in forming their opinion,  were
     obtained from the Local Limited  Partnerships  that are in accordance  with
     generally accepted auditing  standards for the United States,  although not
     in  accordance  with the standards of PCAOB.) At the advice of the SEC, the
     Partnership  filed its  annual  report  on Form 10-K for the year  ended as
     "UNAUDITED."

     The  Partnership  continues to evaluate ways of addressing  this deficiency
     and, together with its auditors,  has discussed  solutions with the SEC and
     the  PCAOB.  To date,  those  solutions  primarily  entail  enhanced  audit
     documentation  required by PCAOB Audit  Standard  No. 3. The  Partnership's
     auditors would have to perform additional procedures related to those Local
     Limited Partnerships in order to complete their audit.

     The  Partnership's   auditors  have  been  engaged  to  perform,  and  have
     performed,  a review of the  Partnership's  interim  financial  information
     included in the Partnership's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
     ended December 31, 2005.

     Despite the  Partnership's  ongoing  efforts to address these matters,  the
     Partnership  at the time of this  filing  is an  untimely  filer due to the
     deficiency in its annual report on Form 10-K;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(e) and  15d-15(e))for  the  registrant and we
     have:

     (a)  Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to ensure  that
          material  information  relating  to  the  registrant,   including  its
          consolidated subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those
          entities,  particularly  during  the  period in which  this  quarterly
          report is being prepared;

     (b)  Evaluated the  effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls
          and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions  about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
          of the period covered by this  report  based  on  such evaluation; and

     (c)  Disclosed  in this  report  any  change in the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's
          most  recent  fiscal  quarter  that  has  materially  affected,  or is
          reasonably  likely to materially  affect,  the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting; and

5.   The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
     our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
     the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board
     of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

     (a)  All  significant  deficiencies  in the design or operation of internal
          controls  which could  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
          record,  process,   summarize  and  report  financial  data  and  have
          identified for the  registrant's  auditors any material  weaknesses in
          internal controls; and

     (b)  Any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves management or other
          employees who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting.

Date:     February 17, 2006

/s/ Wilfred N. Cooper Jr.
- -------------------------
President and Chief Executive Officer of WNC & Associates, Inc.

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 3
 ex321nt69.txt
 EXHIBIT 32-1 NAT 6-9
 
                                  EXHIBIT 32-1

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

     In  connection  with the  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q of WNC Housing Tax
Credit  Fund  VI,  L.P.,  Series 9 (the  "Partnership")  for the  quarter  ended
December 31 , 2005 as filed with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on the
date hereof (the "Report"),  and pursuant to 18 U.S.C., section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, I, Wilfred N. Cooper,
Jr.,  President and Chief Executive Officer of WNC & Associates,  Inc.,  general
partner of the Partnership, hereby certify that:

1.   The Report fully complies with the  requirements  of section 13(a) or 15(d)
     of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934;  except to the extent  that such
     provisions   require  the  filing  of  an  opinion  of  registered   public
     accountants to accompany the Partnership's annual financial statements; and

2.   The information  contained in the Report fairly  presents,  in all material
     respects,   the  financial  condition  and  result  of  operations  of  the
     Partnership.

/s/WILFRED N. COOPER, JR.
- -------------------------
Wilfred N. Cooper, Jr.
President and Chief Executive Officer of WNC & Associates, Inc.
February 17, 2006

</EX-32>

<EX-32>
 4
 ex322n69.txt
 EXHIBIT 32-2 NAT 6-9
 
                                  EXHIBIT 32-2

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

     In  connection  with the  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q of WNC Housing Tax
Credit  Fund  VI,  L.P.,  Series 9 (the  "Partnership")  for the  quarter  ended
December 31,  2005 as filed with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on the
date hereof (the "Report"),  and pursuant to 18 U.S.C., section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to section 906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of 2002,  I, Thomas J. Riha,
Chief  Financial  Officer  of WNC &  Associates,  Inc.,  general  partner of the
Partnership, hereby certify that:

1.   The Report fully complies with the  requirements  of section 13(a) or 15(d)
     of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934;  except to the extent  that such
     provisions   require  the  filing  of  an  opinion  of  registered   public
     accountants to accompany the Partnership's annual financial statements; and

2.   The information  contained in the Report fairly  presents,  in all material
     respects,   the  financial  condition  and  result  of  operations  of  the
     Partnership.

/s/THOMAS J. RIHA
- -----------------
Thomas J. Riha
Chief Financial Officer of WNC & Associates, Inc.
February 17, 2006

</EX-32>

<EX-31>
 5
 ex312nt69.txt
 EX 31-2 NAT 6-9

Exhibit 31-2
                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Thomas J. Riha, certify that:

1.   I have  reviewed  this  quarterly  report on Form 10-Q of WNC  HOUSING  TAX
     CREDIT FUND VI, L.P., Series 9;

2.   Based on my knowledge,  this  quarterly  report does not contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to
     make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such
     statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this quarterly report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information  included  in this  quarterly  report,  fairly  present  in all
     material respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash
     flows of the  registrant  as of, and for,  the  periods  presented  in this
     quarterly  report. As discussed in its cover letter to its annual report on
     Form 10-K for the year ended  March 31,  2005,  WNC Housing Tax Credit Fund
     VI, L.P., Series 9 (the "Partnership") was unable to obtain an audit of its
     financial statements included in such annual report performed in accordance
     with the  standards of the PCAOB.  This was due to the  inability to obtain
     audits of financial statements of the entities in which the Partnership has
     invested (the "Local Limited  Partnerships")  performed in accordance  with
     the  standards  of the  PCAOB.  (Audit  opinions,  which the  Partnership's
     auditors  originally  intended to rely upon in forming their opinion,  were
     obtained from the Local Limited  Partnerships  that are in accordance  with
     generally accepted auditing  standards for the United States,  although not
     in  accordance  with the standards of PCAOB.) At the advice of the SEC, the
     Partnership  filed its  annual  report  on Form 10-K for the year  ended as
     "UNAUDITED."

     The  Partnership  continues to evaluate ways of addressing  this deficiency
     and, together with its auditors,  has discussed  solutions with the SEC and
     the  PCAOB.  To date,  those  solutions  primarily  entail  enhanced  audit
     documentation  required by PCAOB Audit  Standard  No. 3. The  Partnership's
     auditors would have to perform additional procedures related to those Local
     Limited Partnerships in order to complete their audit.

     The  Partnership's   auditors  have  been  engaged  to  perform,  and  have
     performed,  a review of the  Partnership's  interim  financial  information
     included in the Partnership's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
     ended December 31, 2005.

     Despite the  Partnership's  ongoing  efforts to address these matters,  the
     Partnership  at the time of this  filing  is an  untimely  filer due to the
     deficiency in its annual report on Form 10-K;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(e) and  15d-15(e))for  the  registrant and we
     have:

     (a)  Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to ensure  that
          material  information  relating  to  the  registrant,   including  its
          consolidated subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those
          entities,  particularly  during  the  period in which  this  quarterly
          report is being prepared;

     (b)  Evaluated the  effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls
          and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions  about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
          of the period covered by this  report  based  on  such evaluation; and

     (c)  Disclosed  in this  report  any  change in the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's
          most  recent  fiscal  quarter  that  has  materially  affected,  or is
          reasonably  likely to materially  affect,  the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting; and

5.   The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on
     our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
     the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board
     of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

     (a)  All  significant  deficiencies  in the design or operation of internal
          controls  which could  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
          record,  process,   summarize  and  report  financial  data  and  have
          identified for the  registrant's  auditors any material  weaknesses in
          internal controls; and

     (b)  Any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves management or other
          employees who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting.

Date:     February 17, 2006

/s/ Thomas J. Riha
- ------------------
Senior Vice-President - Chief Financial Officer of WNC & Associates, Inc.

</EX-31>

