<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060313_10-Q_edgar_data_893965_0000950134-06-004899_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>248044</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>60946</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>115770</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>19</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-004899.hdr.sgml : 20060313
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060313170108
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-004899
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060313
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060313

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PLATO LEARNING INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000893965
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS PUBLISHING [2741]
		IRS NUMBER:				363660532
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	333-72523
		FILM NUMBER:		06682692

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10801 NESBITT AVENUE SOUTH
		CITY:			BLOOMINGTON
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55437
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8477817800

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10801 NESBITT AVENUE SOUTH
		CITY:			BLOOMINGTON
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55437

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TRO LEARNING INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940218

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MtbAtfR95Lso2i03bZG4zZvw1XnYIx4Jg+/CkYU65qj2Do+cPXGW8g/i+o5AzYZx
 lCMQdj6Xt39SR7tHdT47qQ==

 0000950134-06-004899.txt : 20060313

10-Q
 1
 c03384e10vq.htm
 FORM 10-Q

e10vq 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) 
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006 

Commission File Number 0-20842 

PLATO LEARNING, INC. 

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware 

36-3660532  

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) 

(IRS Employer Identification Number)  

10801 Nesbitt Avenue South, Bloomington, MN 55437  
 (Address of principal executive offices) 

(952) 832-1000  
 (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

Not Applicable  
 (Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report) 

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

(Check one): Large accelerated filer                          Accelerated filer                         Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes     No    

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant s classes of common stock, as
of the latest practicable date. 23,676,826 shares of common stock, $.01 par value, outstanding as
of February 28, 2006.

1

Table of Contents   

PLATO LEARNING, INC. 
Form 10-Q 
Quarterly Period Ended January 31, 2006 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

PART I.

FINANCIAL
INFORMATION  

ITEM 1.  
       
       Financial Statements: 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the
Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (Unaudited) 

3 

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005 (Unaudited) 

4 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (Unaudited) 

5 

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 

6 

ITEM 2.  
       
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations 

15 

ITEM 3.  
       
       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

23 

ITEM 4.  
       
       Controls and Procedures 

23 

PART II.

OTHER
INFORMATION  

ITEM 1A.  
       
       Risk Factors 

24 

ITEM 6.  
       
       Exhibits 

24 

SIGNATURES  

25 

Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 906    
     Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 906    

2

Table of Contents   

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

ITEM 1.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

PLATO Learning, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated
Statements of Operations (Unaudited) 
(In thousands, except per share amounts) 

See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 

3

Table of Contents   

PLATO Learning, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) 

(In thousands, except per share amounts) 

See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 

4

Table of Contents   

PLATO Learning, Inc. and Subsidiaries 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) 

(In thousands) 

See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 

5

Table of Contents   

PLATO LEARNING, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 

Note 1. General 

Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for
interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation
S-X. The October 31, 2005 condensed balance sheet data was derived from our audited financial
statements at that date. Accordingly, these financial statements do not include all of the
information and footnotes required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. We have included all normal recurring and other adjustments considered necessary to
give a fair statement of our operating results for the interim periods shown. Operating results
for these interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full
fiscal year. For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31,
2005.

Consolidation 

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
PLATO Learning, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated.

Fiscal Periods 

Our fiscal year is from November 1 to October 31. Unless otherwise stated, references herein
to our first quarter relate to the three month period ended January 31.

Reclassifications 

Amounts previously reported as other revenues and other cost of revenues in the consolidated
statement of operations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. The
reclassifications had no effect on previously reported total revenues, total cost of revenues, or
gross profit. The table below presents the reconciliation of amounts as previously reported in
fiscal year 2005 to the amounts as reported in fiscal year 2006. Amounts reclassified to license
fees revenue represent third-party software sold in conjunction with PLATO software, and third
party devices, which are the exclusive hardware platform for our Achieve Now software product.
Amounts reclassified to services revenue represent third-party hardware related to our technical
services offering and to bundled software, services, and hardware provided under a Navy contract
with the U.S. Department of Defense. We believe the 2006 reclassification of these amounts results
in a presentation of revenues and related cost of revenues that is most representative of
management s current view of the Company s revenue activities.

6

Table of Contents   

Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

General 

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The
preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. We continually evaluate our
critical accounting policies and estimates, and have identified the policies relating to the
following areas as the critical accounting policies and estimates that are significant to the
financial statement presentation, and that require difficult, subjective, or complex judgments:

Revenue recognition 

Allowance for doubtful accounts 

Capitalized product development costs 

Valuation of our deferred income taxes 

Valuation and impairment analysis of goodwill and identified intangible assets 

There have been no significant changes to our accounting policies in these areas during the
first quarter of 2006. For a more complete discussion of these policies refer to Note 1 to
Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31,
2005.

Stock-Based Compensation 

Effective November 1, 2005, we began recording compensation expense associated with stock
options and other forms of equity compensation to employees in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  as interpreted by SEC Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ( SFAS 123(R) ). Prior to November 1, 2005, we accounted for our
stock-based

7

Table of Contents   

employee compensation arrangements according to the provisions of Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ), and related
interpretations. Accordingly, no related compensation expense was recorded for awards granted with
no intrinsic value and the pro forma disclosures required by SFAS 123 were presented in the notes
to our consolidated financial statements. See Note 3 for additional stock-based compensation
disclosures under FAS 123(R).

As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123(R), our pre-tax loss and net loss as reported in our
statement of operations for the three months ended January 31, 2006, was $322,000 higher than under
the previous accounting method for share-based compensation. In addition, basic and diluted net
loss per share for the three months ended January 31, 2006 was $0.01 higher than under the previous
accounting method. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) is expected to result in pre-tax stock-based
compensation expense of approximately $1,400,000 in fiscal year 2006. SFAS 123(R) also requires
that the cash retained as a result of the tax deductibility of the increase in the value of
share-based arrangements be presented as a component of cash flows from financing activities in the
consolidated statement of cash flows. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), such amounts were
presented as a component of cash flows from operating activities. The adoption SFAS 123(R) had no
effect on our cash flows from operations or financing activities for the three months ended January
31, 2006.

Loss Per Share 

Basic and diluted loss per share is calculated by dividing net loss by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding during the period. Potential common shares, which consist of
stock options and warrants, are anti-dilutive in a net loss situation and are therefore disregarded
in the calculation of diluted loss per share.

New Accounting Pronouncements 

Recently issued accounting pronouncements include the following:

Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Staff Position FAS 13-1,  Accounting
for Rental Costs Incurred during a Construction Period  (October 2005); 

FASB Staff Position FAS 115-1,  The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and
Its Application to Certain Investments  (November 2005); 

FASB Staff Position FIN 45-3,  Application of FASB Interpretation No. 45 to Minimum
Revenue Guarantees Granted to a Business or Its Owners  (November 2005); and, 

FASB SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments   an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140  (February 2006). 

We do not expect these pronouncements to have a significant impact on our consolidated
financial statements.

Note 3. Stock-Based Compensation 

Prior to November 1, 2005, we adopted various stock incentive and stock option plans ( Prior
Stock Plans ) that authorized the granting of stock options, stock appreciation rights, and stock
awards to directors, officers, and key employees, subject to certain conditions, including
continued employment. Stock options under these plans were granted with an exercise price equal to
the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. Options granted to our outside
directors were exercisable

8

Table of Contents   

immediately. All other options granted become exercisable ratably over
a service period of two to four years and expire, if unexercised, after eight or ten years from the
grant date.

On December 8, 2005, our Board of Directors approved the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan ( 2006
Plan ), which was ratified at the annual meeting of stockholders on March 2, 2006. The Plan
permits the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, performance
shares, and other stock awards. The total number of shares available for issuance under the 2006
Plan is equal to the sum of (a) the shares remaining under the Prior Stock Plans, and (b) any
shares issued under the Prior Stock Plans that are forfeited, canceled, or expire without being
exercised. Effective with the adoption of the 2006 Plan, shares will no longer be issued under the
Prior Stock Plans. Stock options under the 2006 Plan are granted with an exercise price equal to
the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. Options granted to our outside
directors are exercisable immediately. All other options granted become exercisable ratably over a
service period of four years and expire, if unexercised, after eight years from the grant date.

In addition to these plans, we also have an Employee Stock Purchase Plan under which employees
are entitled to purchase our common stock at a 15% discount to the market price at the end of the
purchase period. In December 2005, we also entered into  Bonus Unit  agreements with certain
employees under which these employees are eligible for cash compensation equal to the number of
bonus units multiplied by the market price of our common stock on each of October 31, 2006, 2007
and 2008, provided they are employed with us on those dates. A total of 58,500 bonus units have
been granted under these agreements. As these awards are payable in cash, estimated amounts
payable under these agreements are classified as a liability in the condensed consolidated balance
sheet.

As described in Note 2, effective November 1, 2005, we adopted the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),   Share-Based Payment   ( SFAS 123(R) ), using the
modified prospective transition application method. Under this method, compensation expense is
recognized for employee awards granted, modified, or settled subsequent to October 31, 2005, and
the unvested portion of awards granted to employees prior to November 1, 2005. We use the
straight-line method to recognize compensation expense over the requisite service period of the
award, which we have determined to be the vesting period, and an annual pre-vesting forfeiture rate
of 8%, which was determined based on historical pre-vesting forfeiture data. The fair value of
option awards granted after October 31, 2005 was determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing
model utilizing the following assumptions:

In accordance with SFAS 123(R), we review these assumptions on a periodic basis and adjust
them as necessary to ensure proper option valuation. The expected life of an award was determined
based on our analysis of historical exercise behavior taking into consideration various participant
demographics and option characteristic criteria. The risk-free rate of return is based on the
yield on zero coupon U.S. Treasury strips with a remaining life that is consistent with the
expected life of the options being valued.
Our estimate of volatility incorporated a number of the factors outlined in SFAS 123(R), but
was principally determined by examining our historical stock price volatility.

Total stock-based compensation expense recorded during the three months ended January 31, 2006
totaled $322,000 including $141,000 related to options granted prior to November 1, 2005 and

9

Table of Contents   

$36,000 related to the bonus unit agreements. No income tax benefits were recognized related to
this compensation expense due to the full valuation allowance provided on our deferred income tax
assets.

Our pro forma net loss and pro forma loss per share for the three months ended January 31,
2005, including pro forma stock-based compensation expense as if the fair-value-based method of
accounting had been used on awards being accounted for under APB Opinion No. 25, were as follows
(in thousands, except per share amounts):

Net loss, as reported

$ 
     (10,527 
     ) 

Stock-based compensation expense included in
reported net loss

Stock-based compensation expense determined using
the fair value based method for all awards

(730 
     ) 

Pro forma net loss

$ 
     (11,257 
     ) 

Basic and diluted loss per share:

As reported

$ 
     (0.46 
     ) 

Pro forma

$ 
     (0.49 
     ) 

As discussed in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, on October 25, 2005 our Board of
Directors approved the acceleration of vesting on a total of approximately 760,000 options, which
had an exercise price greater than the market price on that date. The effect of this acceleration
was to reduce stock-based compensation expense that would otherwise have been reported in our
statement of operations in the first quarter of 2006 by approximately $360,000. In addition, under
SFAS 123, we accounted for the effect of pre-vesting forfeitures on compensation expense as they
actually occurred. Under SFAS 123(R), we are required to apply an estimate of these forfeitures in
determining periodic compensation expense. This estimate is applied to all outstanding options,
including those issued prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R). The effect of this required change
was to also reduce the amount of expected compensation expense related to options issued prior to
November 1, 2005 relative to the amounts that would have been reported under SFAS 123.

A summary of stock option activity is as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):

The intrinsic value of an option is the amount by which the fair value of the underlying
stock exceeds its exercise price. The total intrinsic value of all options exercised during the
three months ended January 31, 2006 was approximately $80,000. The weighted average fair value of
options granted during the three months ended January 31, 2006 was $3.39 per share.

10

Table of Contents   

As of
January 31, 2006 the total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based
compensation arrangements was approximately $3.0 million and the related weighted average period over which it is
expected to be recognized is approximately three years.

Note 4. Supplemental Financial Statement Information 

Supplemental information regarding our inventories is as follows (in thousands):

Note 5. Accounts Receivable 

The components of accounts receivable were as follows (in thousands):

Installment receivables to be billed one year from the balance sheet date are included in
other long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheets and were $112,000 at January 31, 2006 and
$132,000 at October 31, 2005.

The provision for doubtful accounts, included in general and administrative expenses, was
$227,000 and $305,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Note 6. Goodwill and Identified Intangible Assets 

There were no changes in goodwill from October 31, 2005.

11

Table of Contents   

Identified intangible assets subject to amortization were as follows (in thousands):

Amortization expense for identified intangible assets was $1,270,000 and $2,243,000 for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, of which $301,000 and $1,151,000 was
included in cost of revenues related to license fees and subscriptions for each period,
respectively.

The estimated future annual amortization expense for identified intangible assets is as
follows (in thousands):

The future annual amortization amounts presented above are estimates. Actual amortization
expense may be different due to the acquisition, impairment, or accelerated amortization of
identified intangible assets, and other factors.

Note 7. Debt 

Our revolving loan agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. provided for a maximum $12.5 million
line of credit through January 31, 2006. Substantially all of our assets were pledged as
collateral under this agreement. There were no borrowings outstanding at January 31, 2006 or
October 31, 2005.

The agreement contained restrictive financial covenants (including Minimum Tangible Net Worth,
Minimum Debt Service Coverage, Maximum Leverage, Maximum Cash Flow Leverage and Maximum Annual
Capital Expenditures) and restrictions on additional borrowings, asset sales and dividends, as
defined. Certain of the covenant calculations were based on the trailing twelve-month period. All
applicable covenants were satisfied as of January 31, 2006.

The revolving loan agreement expired on January 31, 2006.

12

Table of Contents   

Note 8. Deferred Revenue 

The components of deferred revenue were as follows (in thousands):

Note 9. Restructuring and Other Charges 

Restructuring and other charges primarily include severance costs for headcount reductions,
committed costs of vacated facilities, and costs paid to terminated executive officers under
employment agreements. These charges are summarized as follows (in thousands):

In the first quarter of 2006, we reduced headcount by 8 positions in the United States. These
actions were a continuation of the restructuring activities initiated in October 2005. For more
information on these activities and the restructuring and other charges incurred in 2005, refer to
Note 13 to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
October 31, 2005.

13

Table of Contents   

The restructuring reserve activity was as follows (in thousands):

Note 10.Comprehensive Loss 

Total comprehensive loss was as follows (in thousands):

Income tax effects for the components of other comprehensive loss were not significant because
our deferred tax assets are fully reserved. Accumulated other comprehensive loss was $979,000 and
$962,000 at January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, respectively.

Note 11. Subsequent Event   Commitment 

On March 3, 2006 we renewed an agreement with a third-party provider of content used in
certain of our software products. The agreement calls for prepayments of $2,000,000 at the time of
the agreement, and $1,000,000 in May 2006. In addition to these prepayments, the agreement
requires us to pay a royalty fee on a per-license basis. The agreement expires in October 2007.
Total royalties under the revised agreement, including the prepayments, are expected to be
comparable to those paid under the former agreement.

14

Table of Contents   

ITEM 2.    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS  

Business Description 

PLATO Learning, Inc. is a leading provider of computer and web-based instruction, curriculum
planning and management, assessment, and related professional development and support services to
K-12 schools. We also provide these products and services to two- and four-year colleges, job
training programs, correctional institutions, military education programs, corporations, and
individuals. We also offer online and onsite staff development, alignment, and correlation services
to ensure optimal classroom integration of our products and to help schools meet their
accountability requirements and school improvement plans.

Our extensive, research-based courseware library includes thousands of hours of mastery-based
instruction covering the subject areas of mathematics, science, reading, writing, language arts,
social studies, and work skills. These courseware components are aligned to local, state,
provincial, and national performance standards, and along with our web-based accountability and
assessment software, is designed to help educators meet the demands of federal and state
accountability legislation such as No Child Left Behind ( NCLB ) and Reading First federal
legislation, special programs such as Title I and special education, as well as U.S. Department of
Education initiatives on mathematics and science and ensuring teacher quality.

We operate our principal business in one industry segment, which is the development and
marketing of educational software and related services.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our
condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial
statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues, and expenses. We continually evaluate our critical accounting policies and
estimates, and have identified the policies relating to the following areas as the critical
accounting policies and estimates that are significant to the financial statement presentation, and
that require difficult, subjective, or complex judgments:

Revenue recognition 

Allowance for doubtful accounts 

Capitalized product development costs 

Valuation of our deferred income taxes 

Valuation and impairment analysis of goodwill and identified intangible assets 

There have been no significant changes to our accounting policies in these areas during
the first quarter of 2006. For a complete discussion of these policies refer to Note 1 to
Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31,
2005.

As more fully described in Notes 2 and 3 to the condensed consolidated financials statements,
in the first quarter of 2006 we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards

15

Table of Contents   

No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  as interpreted by SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107,
( SFAS 123(R) ).

General Factors Affecting our Financial Results 

There are a number of general factors that affect our results from period to period. These
factors are discussed below.

Revenue . A large portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of one-time, perpetual
licenses to our software products. These sales are reported as license fees in our consolidated
statement of operations. Changes in the quantity and size of these individual sales can have a
significant impact on the comparability of revenues from period to period. In addition, as is
common in the software industry, a large portion of our customer orders tend to occur in the final
weeks or days of each fiscal quarter. As a result, license revenues can be heavily influenced by
events such as funding approvals that may be outside our control during this short span of time.
Subscription-based license fees and software support fees (included in services revenues) are
earned ratably throughout the year. Historically these revenues together have made up less than 25%
of total revenues. However, as these revenues grow as a percentage of total revenues, our period to
period revenues will become more comparable and predictable. Our business is also seasonal, with
the largest portion of our license fees typically coming in the third and fourth quarters of our
fiscal year, and professional service fees being the greatest during periods in which schools are
in session. While this seasonality does not generally impact the comparability of our annual
results, it can significantly impact our results from quarter to quarter.

Gross Margin . Our gross margin during a period is dependent on a number of factors. License
fee revenues have high gross margins due to the low direct cost of delivering these products. As a
result, the mix of license fee revenues to total revenues in a given period significantly
influences reported total gross margins. In addition, a large portion of our costs of revenue are
fixed in nature. These costs include amortization of capitalized software development and purchased
technology, depreciation and other infrastructure costs to support our hosted subscription
services, customer support operations, and full-time professional services personnel who deliver
our training services. Accordingly, increases in revenues allow us to leverage these costs
resulting in higher gross margins, while decreases in revenues have the opposite effect.

Operating Expenses . Incentive compensation is a significant variable component of our sales
and marketing expenses, approximating 9% of total revenues in any given period. Sales and marketing
expenses also include costs such as travel, tradeshows, and conferences that can vary with revenue
activity or individual events that occur during the period.

General and administrative expenses are substantially fixed in nature. However, certain
components such as our provision for bad debts, professional fees, and other expenses can vary
based on business results, individual events, or initiatives we may be pursuing at various times
throughout the year.

Product development expense in our consolidated statement of operations does not reflect our
total level of product development spending. Costs to enhance or maintain existing products, or to
develop products prior to achieving technological feasibility, are charged to product development
expense as incurred. Costs incurred to develop new products after technological feasibility is
achieved, which represent the majority of our total development spending, are capitalized and
amortized to cost of revenues. Accordingly, product development expense in our consolidated
statement of operations can

16

Table of Contents   

fluctuate from
period to period, in terms of both total dollars and as a percentage of revenue, based on the
nature and timing of the development activities occurring during the period.

Amortization of intangibles represents the amortization of certain identified intangible
assets acquired through various acquisitions. These expenses are generally predictable from period
to period because they are fixed over the course of their individual useful lives.

Overview of Financial Results 

Our financial results for the first quarter of 2006 reflect a substantial improvement in net
loss from the same period in 2005. Although revenues declined $2.0 million, or 8%, from the first
quarter of 2005, our gross profit improved by $1.6 million, and our operating expenses declined by
$5.4 million, including a $2.2 million decline in restructuring and other charges. As a result,
our net loss declined from $10.5 million in the first quarter of 2005 to $3.2 million in 2006.

The decline in revenue from 2005 is a result of low order volume caused by significant
turnover in account managers in 2005. As discussed in our Form 10-K for fiscal year 2005,
significant changes were made throughout the company in 2005 to better position us for long-term
growth. These changes resulted in voluntary and involuntary turnover throughout the company,
including the sales organization. During the first quarter of 2006, approximately 40% of the sales
force had been with the company less than six months. Our sales force is now fully staffed, and as
they become fully productive, we expect our order rate to accelerate going forward.

The changes we made in 2005 also lowered our overall cost structure and a significant decline
in our break-even point on a going forward basis. Even though we substantially reduced our costs
in several areas of our business, we continue to make significant investments in our product
development. Our 2006 plans include the introduction of five new products consisting of whole
courses across subject areas for high school learners and supplemental instructional resources for
use by K-8 teachers. We also plan to release a new instructional management and delivery platform
that will be the foundation for state-of-the-art, reliable, and cost-effective Internet delivery of
our classroom solutions.

We continue to face risks and uncertainties in our business. The significant changes we made
in our sales organization in 2005 have contributed to a decline in our order volumes in the second
half of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006. We believe the negative effects of these changes are
largely behind us, but achieving our outlook for 2006 is dependent on a fully productive sales
force for the balance of the year. We also face other risks and uncertainties in our business as
discussed in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Our financial outlook for 2006 remains unchanged from the outlook we provided in our fiscal
year 2005 Form 10-K. We continue to expect revenue to grow by no more than 4% and to be modestly
profitable in 2006.

Results of Operations 

Revenues 

See Note 1 to condensed consolidated financial statements for a detail description of the
reclassification of certain revenues and related cost of revenues previously reported as  other  in
our statement of operations.

17

Table of Contents   

The following tables summarize certain key information to aid in the understanding of our
discussion and analysis of revenues:

Orders Greater Than $100,000 

Revenue By Category (in thousands): 

Total revenues for the first quarter of 2006 declined 7.7% to $23.5 million, from $25.5
million for the same period in 2005, reflecting a significant decrease in license fee orders and
revenues. The number of orders greater than $100,000 declined 10.3%, and the related value of
these orders declined by 28.6%. These declines reflect lower sales productivity caused by the
significant changes we made during 2005 in our sales organization, and the systems, processes and
procedures they use. Many of these changes resulted in significant voluntary and involuntary
turnover in our sales organization. During the first quarter, approximately 40% of our sales
force had been with the company for less than six months. While these changes were disruptive in
the short term, we considered them necessary to position our sales organization for long-term
profitable growth. At the end of the first quarter of 2006, our sales force was fully staffed.

While our subscriptions revenue in the first quarter of 2006 was similar to the same period in
2005, our services revenue increased substantially, partially offsetting the decline in revenue
from license fees. Revenue from services increased 13.0% to $10.1 million in the first quarter of
2006, from $8.8 million for the same period in 2005. This growth occurred in software support fees
due to pricing increases and an increase in renewals during 2005, professional development due to a
20% increase in the number of training days delivered in 2006, and technical services. This growth
was partially offset by lower Supplemental Educational Services, which is no longer a significant
focus of our service offerings.

Gross Margin 

See Note 1 to condensed consolidated financial statements for a detail description of the
reclassification of revenues and related cost of revenues previously reported as  other  in our
statement of operations.

18

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the percentage of total revenue, and the gross margin for each
revenue category. This information is provided as an aid to the understanding of our discussion
and analysis of gross margin:

Total gross margin increased to 57.4% for the first quarter of 2006, from 46.7% for the same
period in 2005. This improvement in gross margin was driven by improvements in both license fee
gross margins and services gross margins.

License fee gross margin increased despite a decrease in license revenue, reflecting a
reduction in amortization expense and improved control over discounting of these products.
Amortization of capitalized product development costs and technology related purchased intangible
assets is a component of cost of revenues related to license fees and subscriptions. This
amortization declined approximately $0.9 million in the first quarter of 2006 compared to 2005 as a
result of the impairment of the related assets in the fourth quarter of 2005. As a result, we
expect this amortization to decrease in 2006 compared to 2005, partially offset by increases as
additional capitalized products are completed and begin amortization.

Services gross margin increased from 23.2% in 2005 to 52.6% in 2006. This improvement was
driven by the services revenue increase as described above combined with lower costs as a result of
higher productivity and 2005 cost reduction activities in our services organization.

Operating Expenses 

The following table summarizes the percentage of total revenue and percentage change in total
spending from the previous year for certain operating expense line items. This information is
provided as an aid to the understanding of our discussion and analysis of our operating expenses.

19

Table of Contents   

Total operating expenses, including restructuring and other charges, were $17.0 million for
the first quarter of 2006, a decrease of 24.2% from the $22.4 million reported for the same period
in 2005. Total operating expenses, excluding these charges, decreased $3.2 million or 16.0% for
the same periods, due primarily to lower sales and marketing expenses, slightly offset by a small
increase in general and administrative and product development expenses.

Sales and marketing expenses decreased 27%, or $3.6 million, from the first quarter of 2005 to
the first quarter of 2006. This decline reflects the reorganization and cost reduction activities
we initiated in 2005 and, to a lesser extent, open sales positions during the first quarter in 2006
and lower variable costs due to lower revenue.

General and administrative expenses were $4.6 million in the first quarter of 2006, an
increase $0.4 million compared to 2005. Approximately one-third of this increase represents
stock-based compensation expense recorded in accordance with SFAS 123(R), which we adopted in the
first quarter of 2006. The balance of the increase reflects staffing increases from 2005
initiatives and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance activities.

Restructuring and other charges primarily include severance costs for headcount reductions,
committed costs of vacated facilities, and costs paid to terminated executive officers under
employment agreements. For the three months ended January 31, 2006, we reduced headcount by 8
positions in the United States. These actions were a continuation of the restructuring activities
initiated in October 2005. As discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
October 31, 2005, we expect additional charges in 2006, related to these 2005 activities, of up to
$1.0 million. For more information on these activities and the restructuring and other charges
incurred in 2005, refer to Note 13 to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005.

Interest Income 

Other income and expense consists primarily of interest income on our cash and cash equivalent
balances. The increase in interest income from the first quarter of 2005 to 2006 reflects the
increase in investment yields due to the general rise interest rates over this period.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

At January 31, 2006, cash and cash equivalents were $41.4 million, a decrease of $5.5 million
from October 31, 2005. Approximately $3.0 million of this decrease represents the investments made
in capitalized product development in the first quarter of 2006. The balance of the decrease
primarily reflects the net cash used in operations in 2006 of $2.6 million. Cash proceeds from the
exercise of employee stock options of $0.4 million were substantially offset by the investment of
$0.3 million in equipment and leasehold improvements.

Working Capital and Liquidity 

At January 31, 2006, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities of $41.6 million, and net accounts receivable of $14.5 million. Working
capital,

20

Table of Contents   

defined as current assets less current liabilities, was $22.5 million at January 31, 2006
and $25.4 million at October 31, 2005.

The decrease in working capital was primarily due to the decrease in cash, cash equivalents,
and marketable securities of $5.5 million as discussed above, and the decrease in net accounts
receivable of $8.3 million, offset by the decreases in accounts payable, accrued salaries and
benefits, and accrued liabilities of $5.2 million and the decrease in deferred revenue of $6.5
million. Accounts receivable decreased due to the low order volume in 2006 and the collection of
amounts outstanding at October 31, 2005. Accounts payable and accrued salaries and benefits
decreased due to payment of amounts accrued at October 31, 2005, including year-end commissions and
bonuses. Deferred revenue, which is satisfied through delivery of products and services rather
than cash, decreased as more of these products and services were delivered than were added through
new business, due to the lower order volume mentioned earlier.

Our revolving loan agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. provided for a maximum $12.5 million
line of credit through January 31, 2006. Substantially all of our assets were pledged as
collateral under this agreement. There were no borrowings outstanding at January 31, 2006 or
October 31, 2005. The agreement contained restrictive financial covenants (including Minimum
Tangible Net Worth, Minimum Debt Service Coverage, Maximum Leverage, Maximum Cash Flow Leverage and
Maximum Annual Capital Expenditures) and restrictions on additional borrowings, asset sales and
dividends, as defined. Certain of the covenant calculations were based on the trailing
twelve-month period. All applicable covenants were satisfied as of January 31, 2006. The
revolving loan agreement expired on January 31, 2006. Negotiations are in progress to replace this
agreement.

Our future liquidity needs will depend on, among other factors, the timing and extent of
product development expenditures, changes in customer order volume, the timing and collection of
receivables, and expenditures in connection with possible acquisitions or stock repurchases. From
time to time, we evaluate potential acquisitions of products or businesses that complement our core
business. We may consider and acquire other complementary businesses, products, or technologies in
the future. We believe that existing cash and investment balances, future available credit lines
and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations for the
foreseeable future.

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments 

Our contractual obligations and commercial commitments consist primarily of future minimum
payments due under operating leases, royalty agreements, and capital lease obligations. In
addition, any future borrowings under a renegotiated revolving loan agreement as discussed above
would require future use of cash. Refer to  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October
31, 2005 for a table showing our contractual obligations. There were no significant changes to our
contractual obligations during the three months ended January 31, 2006.

At January 31, 2006, we had no significant commitments for capital expenditures.

Disclosures about Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of January 31, 2006.

21

Table of Contents   

Fiscal Year 2006 Outlook 

The outlook for our full year 2006 financial performance remains unchanged from the outlook we
provided in our fiscal year 2005 Form 10-K. In summary, we continue to expect revenue growth in
2006 of up to 4% over 2005, and to be modestly profitable in 2006. For a complete discussion of
this outlook, refer to  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005.

Forward-Looking Statements 

In addition to historical information, this Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words  believe,   expect,   anticipate, 
 intend,   estimate,   forecast,   project,   should  and similar expressions are intended to
identify  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, among others, statements about our future
performance, the continuation of historical trends, the sufficiency of our sources of capital for
future needs, the effect of restructuring activities on our achieve long-term growth, and the
expected impact of recently issued accounting pronouncements. These forward-looking statements are
subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially
from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference
include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the Part II Item 1A of this Form 10-Q and Part
I Item 1A of our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance
on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management s opinions only as of the date
hereof. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to
these forward-looking statements based on circumstances or events, which occur in the future.
Readers should carefully review the risk factors described in this report on Form 10-Q and in other
documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Interest Rate Risk 

At January 31, 2006, we did not have any outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit
facility, which terminated on that date. Our only debt consisted of capital lease obligations at
fixed interest rates.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk 

The primary market for our products and services is in the United States, but our products are
marketed outside the United States on a selected basis and we have limited operations in Canada and
the United Kingdom. These foreign operations are not a significant component of our business, and,
as a result, risks relating to foreign currency fluctuation are considered minimal.

22

Table of Contents   

ITEM 3.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

See the information set forth under the captions,   Interest Rate Risk   and   Foreign Currency
Exchange Rate Risk   in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

ITEM 4.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Based on our management s evaluation (with the participation of our principal executive
officer and principal financial officer), as of the end of the period covered by this report, our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, (the  Exchange Act )) are effective to ensure that information required to
be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission
rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without
limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that
it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and
communicated to the company s management, including its
principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate
to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting during our first quarter
of fiscal 2006 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.

23

Table of Contents   

PART II. 

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS  

Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which we discussed in detail in
Part 1, Item 1A of our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 6.    EXHIBITS  

Exhibit Number
and Description 

24

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

PLATO LEARNING, INC. 
March 13, 2006

By

/s/ MICHAEL A. MORACHE

Michael A. Morache

President and Chief Executive Officer  

(principal executive officer) 

/s/ LAURENCE L. BETTERLEY

Laurence L. Betterley

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

(principal financial officer) 

25

<EX-31.01>
 2
 c03384exv31w01.txt
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Exhibit 31.01

                    CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                          UNDER RULE 13a-14(a) ADOPTED
                             PURSUANT TO SECTION 302
                        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Michael A. Morache, President and Chief Executive Officer of PLATO Learning,
Inc., certify that:

1.    I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of PLATO Learning,
      Inc.;

2.    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
      of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report;

3.    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
      information included in this report, fairly present in all material
      respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
      the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

            a.    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
                  such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under
                  our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
                  to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
                  made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
                  during the period in which this report is being prepared;

            b.    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
                  caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
                  designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
                  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
                  the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
                  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

            c.    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure
                  controls and procedures and presented in this report our
                  conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
                  and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
                  report based on such evaluation; and

            d.    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's
                  internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
                  the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
                  fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that
                  has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
                  affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
                  reporting; and

5.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
      board of directors:

      a.    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
            or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
            reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
            record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

      b.    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
            other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
            internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 13, 2006                   /s/ MICHAEL A. MORACHE
                                       ---------------------------
                                       Michael A. Morache
                                       President and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.01>

<EX-31.02>
 3
 c03384exv31w02.txt
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Exhibit 31.02

                    CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
                          UNDER RULE 13a-14(a) ADOPTED
                             PURSUANT TO SECTION 302
                        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Laurence L. Betterley, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
PLATO Learning, Inc., certify that:

1.    I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of PLATO Learning,
      Inc.;

2.    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
      of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report;

3.    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
      information included in this report, fairly present in all material
      respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
      the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

            a.    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
                  such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under
                  our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
                  to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
                  made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
                  during the period in which this report is being prepared;

            b.    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
                  caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
                  designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
                  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
                  the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
                  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

            c.    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure
                  controls and procedures and presented in this report our
                  conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
                  and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
                  report based on such evaluation; and

            d.    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's
                  internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
                  the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
                  fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that
                  has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
                  affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
                  reporting; and

5.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
      board of directors:

            a.    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
                  design or operation of internal control over financial
                  reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
                  registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
                  financial information; and

            b.    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
                  or other employees who have a significant role in the
                  registrant's internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 13, 2006           /s/ LAURENCE L. BETTERLEY
                               -------------------------------------------------
                               Laurence L. Betterley
                               Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.02>

<EX-32.01>
 4
 c03384exv32w01.txt
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Exhibit 32.01

                    CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                              UNDER 18 U.S.C. 1350
                             PURSUANT TO SECTION 906
                        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of PLATO Learning, Inc.
(the "Company") for the period ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Michael
A. Morache, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, hereby
certify, pursuant to and for purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my
knowledge:

      1.    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
            15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

      2.    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
            material respects, the financial condition and results of operations
            of the Company.

Date: March 13, 2006                      /s/ MICHAEL A. MORACHE
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Michael A. Morache
                                          President and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-32.01>

<EX-32.02>
 5
 c03384exv32w02.txt
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Exhibit 32.02

                    CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
                              UNDER 18 U.S.C. 1350
                             PURSUANT TO SECTION 906
                        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of PLATO Learning, Inc.
(the "Company") for the period ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I,
Laurence L. Betterley, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company, hereby certify, pursuant to and for purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,
as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to
my knowledge:

      1.    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
            15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

      2.    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
            material respects, the financial condition and results of operations
            of the Company.

Date: March 13, 2006          /s/ LAURENCE L. BETTERLEY
                              -------------------------------------------------
                              Laurence L. Betterley
                              Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

</EX-32.02>

