<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060310_10-Q_edgar_data_1094739_0000950134-06-004708_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>536898</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>204127</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>203256</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>32</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-004708.hdr.sgml : 20060310
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060310143157
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-004708
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060310
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060310

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FINISAR CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001094739
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				943038428
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0430

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-27999
		FILM NUMBER:		06678849

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1389 MOFFETT PARK DR
		CITY:			SUNNYVALE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94089
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4085481000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1389 MOFFETT PARK DR
		CITY:			SUNNYVALE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94089

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 UVlNbZVNkZZfA/rAc86/7cYHkwrk/4paZzsyZZIM5IP3OGdCiZPf+80zDPAkNPes
 aejacc1rxYKuATfnMleOmA==

 0000950134-06-004708.txt : 20060310

10-Q
 1
 f18327e10vq.htm
 FORM 10-Q

e10vq 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form 10-Q 

(Mark One) 

For the Quarterly Period Ended January 31, 2006 

or

For the transition period from            to 

Commission file number 000-27999  

Finisar Corporation 

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware  

(State or other jurisdiction of 

94-3038428  

incorporation or organization) 

(I.R.S. Employer  

1389 Moffett Park Drive 

Identification No.)  

Sunnyvale, California 

94089  

(Address of principal executive offices) 

(Zip Code)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 

408-548-1000 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer    

Accelerated filer    

Non-accelerated filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act). Yes     No    

At February 28, 2006, there were 299,131,824 shares of the registrant s common stock, $.001
par value, issued and outstanding.

INDEX TO QUARTERLY REPORT ON FORM 10-Q 
For the Quarter Ended January 31, 2006 

2

Table of Contents   

PART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1.    Financial Statements  

FINISAR CORPORATION 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

See accompanying notes

3

Table of Contents   

FINISAR CORPORATION 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

See accompanying notes.

4

Table of Contents   

FINISAR CORPORATION 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

See accompanying notes.

5

Table of Contents   

FINISAR CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(unaudited) 

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Description of Business  

Finisar Corporation is a leading provider of optical subsystems and components and network
performance test and monitoring systems. These products enable high-speed data communications over
local area networks, or LANs, storage area networks, or SANs, and metropolitan area networks, or
MANs. Optical subsystems consist primarily of transceivers sold to manufacturers of storage and
networking equipment for SAN, LAN and MAN applications. Optical subsystems also include
multiplexers, demultiplexers and optical add/drop modules used in MAN applications. The Company is
focused on the application of digital fiber optics to provide a broad line of high-performance,
reliable, value-added optical subsystems for data networking and storage equipment manufacturers.
Finisar s line of optical subsystems supports a wide range of network protocols, transmission
speeds, distances, physical mediums and configurations. Finisar s line of optical components
consists primarily of packaged lasers and photodetectors used in transceivers, primarily for LAN
and SAN applications. The Company also provides network performance test and monitoring systems to
original equipment manufacturers for testing and validating equipment designs and to operators of
networking and storage data centers for testing, monitoring and troubleshooting the performance of
their installed systems. Finisar sells its products primarily to leading storage and networking
equipment manufacturers such as Brocade, Cisco Systems, EMC, Emulex, Hewlett-Packard Company and
Qlogic.

Finisar Corporation was incorporated in California in April 1987 and reincorporated in
Delaware in November 1999. Finisar s principal executive offices are located at 1389 Moffett Park
Drive, Sunnyvale, California 94089, and its telephone number is (408) 548-1000.

Interim Financial Information and Basis of Presentation  

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of January 31, 2006,
and for the three and nine month periods ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, have been prepared in
accordance with U.S generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial statements and
pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and include the
accounts of Finisar Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively,  Finisar  or the
 Company ). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain
information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles have been condensed or omitted
pursuant to such rules and regulations. In the opinion of management, the unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring
adjustments) necessary for a fair presentation of the Company s financial position at January 31,
2006 and its operating results and cash flows for the three and nine month periods ended January
31, 2006 and 2005. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in
conjunction with the Company s audited financial statements and notes for the fiscal year ended
April 30, 2005.

Fiscal Periods  

The Company maintains its financial records on the basis of a fiscal year ending on April 30,
with fiscal quarters ending on the Sunday closest to the end of the period (thirteen-week periods).
For ease of comparison, all references to period end dates have been presented as though the period
ended on the last day of the calendar month. The third quarter of fiscal 2006 ended on January 29,
2006. The third quarter of fiscal 2005 ended on January 30, 2005.

Reclassifications  

Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial statements to conform to
the current year presentation. These changes had no impact on previously reported net income or
retained earnings.

Use of Estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported
in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these
estimates.

6

Table of Contents   

Revenue Recognition  

The Company s revenue transactions consist predominately of sales of products to customers.
The Company follows the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB)
No. 104  Revenue Recognition . Specifically, the Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence
of an arrangement exists, title and risk of loss have passed to the customer, generally upon
shipment, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. For those
arrangements with multiple elements, or in related arrangements with the same customer, the Company
invoices and charges for each separate element based on the list price for such element.

At the time revenue is recognized, the Company establishes an accrual for estimated warranty
expenses associated with sales, recorded as a component of cost of revenues. The Company s
customers and distributors generally do not have return rights. However, the Company has
established an allowance for estimated customer returns, based on historical experience, which is
netted against revenue.

Sales to certain distributors are made under agreements providing distributor price
adjustments and rights of return under certain circumstances. Revenue and costs relating to
distributor sales are deferred until products are sold by the distributors to end customers.
Revenue recognition depends on notification from the distributor that product has been sold to the
end customer. Also reported by the distributor are product resale price, quantity and end customer
shipment information, as well as inventory on hand. Deferred revenue on shipments to distributors
reflects the effects of distributor price adjustments and, the amount of gross margin expected to
be realized when distributors sell-through products purchased from us. Accounts receivable from
distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved when title to inventories transfers,
typically upon shipment from us at which point we have a legally enforceable right to collection
under normal payment terms.

Segment Reporting  

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131  Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information  establishes standards for the way that public business
enterprises report information about operating segments in annual financial statements and requires
that those enterprises report selected information about operating segments in interim financial
reports. SFAS 131 also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and services,
geographic areas and major customers. The Company has determined that it operates in two segments
consisting of optical subsystems and components and network test and monitoring systems.

Concentrations of Credit Risk  

Financial instruments which potentially subject Finisar to concentrations of credit risk
include cash, cash equivalents, short-term and restricted investments and accounts receivable.
Finisar places its cash, cash equivalents and short-term and restricted investments with
high-credit quality financial institutions. Such investments are generally in excess of FDIC
insurance limits. Concentrations of credit risk, with respect to accounts receivable, exist to the
extent of amounts presented in the financial statements. Generally, Finisar does not require
collateral or other security to support customer receivables. Finisar performs periodic credit
evaluations of its customers and maintains an allowance for potential credit losses based on
historical experience and other information available to management. Losses to date have not been
material. The Company s five largest customers represented 37.9% and 39.3% of total accounts
receivable at January 31, 2006 and April 30, 2005, respectively.

Current Vulnerabilities Due to Certain Concentrations  

Finisar sells products primarily to customers located in North America. During the three and
nine months ended January 31, 2006, sales to the top five optical subsystems and components
customers represented 42.5% and 45.2% of total revenues, respectively. During the three and nine
months ended January 31, 2005, sales to the top five optical subsystems and components customers
represented 48.9% and 46.9% of total revenues, respectively. One customer represented more than 10%
of total revenues during each of these periods.

Foreign Currency Translation  

The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the local currency. Assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate on the balance
sheet dates. Revenues and expenses are translated using average exchange rates prevailing during
the year. Any translation adjustments resulting from this process are shown separately as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses
are included in the determination of net loss.

7

Table of Contents   

Research and Development  

Research and development expenditures are charged to operations as incurred.

Advertising Costs  

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising is used infrequently in marketing the
Company s products. Advertising costs were $50,000 and $243,000 in the three and nine months ended
January 31, 2006, respectively, and $135,000 and $514,000 in the three and nine months ended
January 31, 2005, respectively.

Shipping and Handling Costs  

The Company records costs related to shipping and handling in cost of sales for all periods
presented.

Cash and Cash Equivalents  

Finisar s cash equivalents consist of money market funds and highly liquid short-term
investments with qualified financial institutions. Finisar considers all highly liquid investments
with an original maturity from the date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Investments  

Short-Term 

Short-term investments consist of interest bearing securities with maturities of greater than
three months from the date of purchase. Pursuant to SFAS No. 115  Accounting for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities , the Company has classified its short-term investments as
available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are stated at market value, which approximates
fair value, and unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, are excluded
from earnings and are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income
until realized. A decline in the market value of the security below cost, that is deemed other than
temporary, is charged to earnings, resulting in the establishment of a new cost basis for the
security.

Restricted Investments 

Restricted investments consist of interest bearing securities with maturities of greater than
three months from the date of purchase and investments held in escrow under the terms of the
Company s convertible subordinated notes. In accordance with SFAS 115, the Company has classified
its restricted investments as held-to-maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are stated at amortized
cost.

Other 

The Company uses the cost method of accounting for investments in companies that do not have a
readily determinable fair value in which it holds an interest of less than 20% and over which it
does not have the ability to exercise significant influence. For entities in which the Company
holds an interest of greater than 20% or in which the Company does have the ability to exercise
significant influence, the Company uses the equity method. In determining if and when a decline in
the market value of these investments below their carrying value is other-than-temporary, the
Company evaluates the market conditions, offering prices, trends of earnings and cash flows, price
multiples, prospects for liquidity and other key measures of performance. The Company s policy is
to recognize an impairment in the value of its minority equity investments when clear evidence of
an impairment exists, such as (a) the completion of a new equity financing that may indicate a new
value for the investment, (b) the failure to complete a new equity financing arrangement after
seeking to raise additional funds or (c) the commencement of proceedings under which the assets of
the business may be placed in receivership or liquidated to satisfy the claims of debt and equity
stakeholders. The Company s minority investments in private companies are generally made in
exchange for preferred stock with a liquidation preference that is intended to help protect the
underlying value of its investment.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

The carrying amounts of certain of the Company s financial instruments, including cash and
cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued compensation and other accrued
liabilities, approximate fair value because of their short maturities. As of January 31, 2006 and
April 30, 2005, the fair value of the Company s convertible subordinated debt was approximately
$239.7 million and $206.6 million, respectively.

Inventories  

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined on a first-in, first-out basis) or
market.

8

Table of Contents   

The Company permanently writes down the cost of inventory that the Company specifically
identifies and considers obsolete or excessive to fulfill future sales estimates. The Company
defines obsolete inventory as inventory that will no longer be used in the manufacturing process.
Excess inventory is generally defined as inventory in excess of projected usage, and is determined
using management s best estimate of future demand at the time, based upon information then
available to the Company. The Company uses a twelve-month historical usage model to compute excess
inventory and, in addition to the historical usage model, the Company also considers: (1) forecast
demand, (2) parts and subassemblies that can be used in alternative finished products, (3) parts
and subassemblies that are likely to be engineered out of the Company s products, and (4) known
design changes which would reduce the Company s ability to use the inventory as planned.

Property, Equipment and Improvements  

Property, equipment and improvements are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Property, plant, equipment and improvements are depreciated on a straight-line basis
over the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally three years to seven years except for
buildings, which are depreciated over 40 years. Land is carried at acquisition cost and not
depreciated. Leased land costs are depreciated over the life of the lease.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  

Goodwill and other intangible assets result from acquisitions accounted for under the purchase
method. Amortization of intangibles has been provided on a straight-line basis over periods ranging
from one to nine years. The amortization of goodwill ceased with the adoption of SFAS No. 142
beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2003.

Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  

The Company periodically evaluates whether changes have occurred to long-lived assets that
would require revision of the remaining estimated useful life of the property, improvements and
assigned intangible assets or render them not recoverable. If such circumstances arise, the Company
uses an estimate of the undiscounted value of expected future operating cash flows to determine
whether the long-lived assets are impaired. If the aggregate undiscounted cash flows are less than
the carrying amount of the assets, the resulting impairment charge to be recorded is calculated
based on the excess of the carrying value of the assets over the fair value of such assets, with
the fair value determined based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows.

Stock-Based Compensation  

Finisar accounts for employee stock option grants in accordance with Accounting Principles
Board (APB) Opinion No. 25  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  and complies with the
disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  and SFAS No. 148
 Accounting for Stock-based Compensation   Transition and Disclosure . The Company accounts for stock
issued to non-employees in accordance with provisions of SFAS No. 123 and Emerging Issues Task
Force Issue No. 96-18,  Accounting for Equity Investments That Are Issued to Other Than Employees
for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling Goods or Services .

The following table illustrates the effect on net income (loss) and net income (loss) per
share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 to employee
stock benefits, including shares issued under the Company s stock option plans and Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (collectively  options ). For purposes of these pro forma disclosures, the estimated
fair value of the options is assumed to be amortized to expense over the options  vesting periods
and the amortization of deferred compensation has been added back. Pro forma information follows
(in thousands, except per share amounts):

9

Table of Contents   

The fair value of the Company s stock option grants are determined using the Black-Scholes
valuation model based on the actual stock closing price on the day previous to the date of grant.
These option valuation models were developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options
that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models
require the input of highly subjective assumptions. Because Finisar s stock-based awards have
characteristics significantly different from those of traded options and because changes in the
subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management s
opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value
of its stock-based awards.

The fair value of these options at the date of grant was estimated using the following
weighted-average assumptions for the first, second and third quarters of fiscal 2006: for stock
option grants the Company used risk-free interest rates of 4.12%, 4.42%, and 4.46% respectively; a
dividend yield of 0% for each period; a volatility factor of 1.10, 1.08, and 1.07, respectively;
and a weighted-average expected life of the option of 3.6, 3.7, and 3.8 years, respectively. For
the employee stock purchase plan the Company used a risk-free interest rate of 4.0%, 4.0%, 4.35%; a
dividend yield of 0%; a volatility factor of .70,.70, and .65; and a weighted-average expected life
of the option of 0.5 years for the first, second, and third quarters of fiscal 2006, respectively.

The fair value of these options at the date of grant was estimated using the following
weighted-average assumptions for the first, second and third quarters of fiscal 2005: for stock
option grants the Company used risk-free interest rates of 3.7%, 3.71%, and 3.69%, respectively;
a dividend yield of 0% for each period; a volatility factor of 1.19, 1.17, and 1.14, respectively;
and a weighted-average expected life of the option of 3.9, 3.85, and 3.84 years, respectively. For
the employee purchase plan, the Company used a risk-free interest rate of 2.85%, a dividend yield
of 0%, a volatility factor of 0.99, and a weighted-average expected life of the option of 0.46
years for the first quarter of fiscal 2005. There was no employee purchase plan activity in the
second and third quarters of fiscal 2005.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS 123R, which
replaces SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25. As permitted by SFAS 123, the Company currently accounts
for share-based payments to employees using APB 25 s intrinsic value method. Under APB 25, the
Company generally recognizes no compensation expense for employee stock options, as the exercise
prices of the options granted are usually equal to the quoted market price of the Company s common
stock on the date of the grant. SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees,
including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on
their fair values, except in limited circumstances when stock options have been
exchanged in a business combination. Under SFAS 123R, the pro forma disclosures previously
permitted under SFAS 123 will no longer be an alternative to financial statement recognition. In
April 2005, the SEC issued a rule delaying the required adoption date for SFAS 123R to the first
interim period of the first fiscal year beginning on or after June 15, 2005. The Company will
adopt SFAS 123R as of May 1, 2006.

Under SFAS 123R, the Company must determine the appropriate fair value model to be used for
valuing share-based payments, the amortization method of compensation cost and the transition
method to be used at date of adoption. The adoption alternatives are the  modified retrospective 
and the  modified prospective  methods. The modified prospective method requires that compensation expense
be recorded for all unvested stock options and restricted stock at the beginning of the first
quarter of adoption. The modified retrospective method requires that compensation expense for all unvested
stock options and restricted stock begin with the first period
restated. Under the modified retrospective
method, prior periods may be restated either as of the beginning of the year of adoption or for all
periods presented. The Company expects to adopt SFAS 123R under the
modified prospective method. The Company
is evaluating the requirements of SFAS 123R

10

Table of Contents   

and has not yet determined the effect of adopting SFAS
123R or whether the adoption will result in amounts that are similar to the current pro forma
disclosures under SFAS 123, although the Company expects that the adoption of SFAS 123R will result
in significant stock-based compensation expense.

Net Income ( Loss) Per Share  

Basic and diluted net income (loss) per share is presented in accordance with SFAS No. 128
 Earnings Per Share  for all periods presented. Basic net income (loss) per share has been computed
using the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted
net income (loss) per share has been computed using the weighted-average number of shares of common
stock and dilutive potential common shares from options and warrants (under the treasury stock
method) and convertible notes (on an as-if-converted basis) outstanding during the period.

The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share
(in thousands, except per share amounts):

Comprehensive Income  

SFAS No. 130  Reporting Comprehensive Income  establishes rules for reporting and display of
comprehensive income and its components. SFAS No. 130 requires unrealized gains or losses on the
Company s available-for-sale securities and foreign currency translation adjustments to be included
in comprehensive income.

11

Table of Contents   

The components of comprehensive loss for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2006 and
2005 were as follows (in thousands):

The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes, were as follows
(in thousands):

Pending Adoption of New Accounting Standards  

In November 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued FASB Staff Position
FAS 115-1,   The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain
Investments   ( FSP 115-1 ), which provides guidance on determining when investments in certain debt
and equity securities are considered impaired, whether that impairment is other-than-temporary, and
on measuring such impairment loss. FSP 115-1 also includes accounting considerations subsequent to
the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment and requires certain disclosure about
unrealized losses that have not been recognized as other-than-temporary impairments. FSP115-1 is
effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not believe the
adoption of FSP 115-1 on February 1, 2006 will have a material impact on its financial statements.

On June 7, 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections ,
a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes , and Statement No. 3,  Reporting Accounting
Changes in Interim Financial Statements . Statement 154 changes the requirements for the accounting
for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. Previously, most voluntary changes in
accounting principles required recognition via a cumulative effect adjustment within net income for
the period of the change. Statement 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods 
financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or
the cumulative effect of the change. Statement 154 is effective for accounting changes made in
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005; however, the Statement does not change the
transition provisions of any existing accounting pronouncements. The Company does not believe
the adoption of Statement 154 will have a material impact on its
financial statements.

In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47,   Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations , (  FIN 47 ) which clarifies that the term  conditional asset retirement
obligation  as used in Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 143,   Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations   ( SFAS 143 ), refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement
activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may
or may not be within the control of the entity. However, the obligation to perform the asset
retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and/or method
of settlement. FIN 47 requires that the uncertainty about the timing and/or method of settlement of
a conditional asset retirement obligation be factored into the measurement of the liability when
sufficient information exists. FIN 47 also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient
information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. FIN 47 is
effective no later than the end of fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. The Company does
not believe the adoption of FIN 47 will have a material impact on its financial statements.

2. Acquisition of Big Bear Networks, Inc. 

On November 15, 2005, the Company completed the purchase of certain assets of Big Bear
Networks, Inc. in exchange for a cash payment of $1.9 million. The acquisition expanded the
Company s product offering and customer base for optical transponders and its portfolio of
intellectual property used in designing and manufacturing these products as well as those to be
developed in the future. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the
results of operations of the acquired assets (beginning with the

12

Table of Contents   

closing date of the acquisition) and the estimated fair value of assets acquired are included in the optical subsystems and
components segment of the Company s consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended January
31, 2006.

The following is a summary of the initial purchase price allocation for this acquisition (in
thousands):

3. Acquisition of InterSAN, Inc. 

On May 12, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of InterSAN, Inc., a privately held
company located in Scotts Valley, California. The acquisition expanded the Company s product
offering for testing and monitoring systems. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, the
holders of InterSAN s securities will be entitled to receive up to 7,132,186 shares of Finisar
common stock having a value of approximately $8.8 million. Approximately 10% of the shares of
Finisar common stock that would otherwise have been distributed to the holders of InterSAN s
securities at the closing of the acquisition were deposited into an escrow account for 12 months
following the closing for the purpose of providing a fund against which the Company may assert
claims for damages, if any, based on breaches of the representations and warranties made by
InterSAN in the agreement. The issuance of such shares was not registered under the Securities Act
in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act.
The results of operations of InterSAN (beginning with the closing date of the acquisition) and the
estimated fair value of assets acquired are included in the Network Test and Monitoring segment of
the Company s consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended October 31, 2005. During the
quarter ended October 31, 2005, the Company incurred additional costs of $130,000 related to this
acquisition which have been included in the total consideration.

The following is a summary of the consideration paid for this acquisition (in thousands,
except shares):

The following is a summary of the initial purchase price allocation for this acquisition (in
thousands):

The weighted average amortization period for the intangible assets acquired are as follows (in
years):

4. Convertible Note Related to Acquisition of Assets from Data Transit Corp. 

On August 6, 2004, the Company completed the purchase of substantially all of the assets of
Data Transit Corp. in exchange for a cash payment of $500,000 and the issuance of a convertible
promissory note in the original principal amount of $16.3 million. Transaction costs totaled
$682,000. The principal balance of the note had an interest rate of 8% per annum and was due and
payable, if not earlier converted, on the second anniversary of its issuance. Generally, the terms
of the convertible promissory note provided for automatic conversion of the outstanding principal
and interest into shares of Finisar common stock on a biweekly basis, commencing on the later of
the effectiveness of a registration statement covering the resale of the shares or one year after
the closing date. The conversion price was the average closing bid price of the stock for the three
days preceding the date of conversion. The amount of principal and interest to be converted on each
conversion date was based on the average trading volume of our common stock over the preceding 14
days.

13

Table of Contents   

During the quarter ended July 31, 2005, the Company issued 5,144,609 shares of common stock
upon the conversion of $4.2 million of principal and $1.1 million of interest related to this
convertible promissory note. During the quarter ended October 31, 2005, the Company issued
9,938,256 shares of common stock upon the conversion of $12.1 million of principal and $191,000 of
interest related to this convertible promissory note. As of October 31, 2005, all of the principal
and interest on this note had been converted into shares of common stock.

5. Convertible Note Related to Acquisition of I-TECH Corp. 

On April 8, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of I-TECH CORP., a privately-held
network test and monitoring company, in exchange for the issuance of two promissory notes to the
sole holder of I-TECH s common stock. The promissory notes, which have an aggregate principal
amount of approximately $12.1 million and an interest rate of 3.35% per annum, are convertible into
shares of Finisar common stock upon the occurrence of certain events and at the election of the
Company and the holder of the notes. The exact number of shares of Finisar common stock to be
issued pursuant to the promissory notes is dependent on the trading price of Finisar common stock
on the dates of conversion of the notes. Because the number of shares to be issued is based upon
the market price of Finisar common stock, the Company is unable at this time to determine the exact
number of shares that will be issued pursuant to the notes.

During the quarter ended July 31, 2005, the Company issued 9,834,541 shares of common stock
upon the conversion of $11.1 million of principal and $65,000 of interest related to one of these
convertible promissory notes resulting in the complete conversion of the note. During the quarter
ended January 31, 2006, the Company issued 99,860 shares of common stock upon the conversion of
$157,000 of principal and $22,000 of interest related to the remaining promissory note. As of
January 31, 2006, $843,000 of principal remains outstanding on the remaining note.

6. Convertible Note Related to Acquisition of Minority Investment in CyOptics, Inc. 

On April 29, 2005, the Company entered into a Series F Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement (the
 SPA ) with CyOptics, Inc. Pursuant to the SPA, the Company issued a convertible promissory note in
the principal amount of approximately $3.8 million and an interest rate of 3.35% per annum as
consideration for the purchase of 24,298,580 shares of CyOptics Series F Preferred Stock.

The terms of the note provided for four weekly conversions of equal portions of the
outstanding principal of the note into shares of Finisar common stock, commencing on June 14, 2005.
The number of shares to be issued upon each conversion was determined by dividing the amount
converted by the average closing bid price of Finisar common stock for either (i) the four trading
days immediately prior to the conversion, or (ii) the trading day prior to the conversion, as
selected by the holder of the note.

During the quarter ended July 31, 2005, the Company issued 3,594,607 shares of common stock
upon the conversion of the full $3.8 million of principal and $19,000 of interest related to this
convertible promissory note. As of July 31, 2005 the entire principal balance had been repaid.

7. Loans Related to Acquisition of Assets from New Focus, Inc. 

In partial consideration for the purchase of certain assets of New Focus, Inc. for a total
purchase price of $12.1 million in May 2002, the Company delivered to New Focus a non-interest
bearing convertible promissory note in the principal amount of $6.75 million. On August 9, 2002,
the note was converted into 4,027,446 shares of Finisar common stock. The Company made cash
payments of $1.4 million in August 2003, $2.0 million in September 2004, and $2.0 million in August
2005 to pay down minimum commitments to New Focus under a royalty arrangement entered into in
connection with the acquisition. As of October 31, 2005, the entire commitment under this royalty
arrangement had been paid. Because such payments were not fixed in time, they were not discounted
as otherwise required under APB Opinion No. 21.

8. Letter of Credit Reimbursement Agreement 

On April 29, 2005, the Company entered into a letter of credit reimbursement agreement with a
bank for a period of one year. Under the terms of the agreement, the Bank is providing a $7
million letter of credit facility to house existing letters of credit issued by them and any other
letters of credit that may be required by the Company. Costs related to the credit facility
consisted of a loan fee of 0.50% of the credit facility amount, or $35,000, plus the bank s out of
pocket expenses associated with the credit facility. The credit facility is unsecured with a
negative pledge on all assets, including intellectual property. The agreement requires the Company
to maintain its primary banking and cash management relationships with the bank or one of the
bank s subsidiaries and to maintain a minimum unrestricted cash and cash equivalents balance, net
of any outstanding debt and letters of credit exposure, of $40 million at all times. On October
20, 2005, the Company amended this letter of credit reimbursement agreement with its bank to
increase the letter of credit facility to $20 million. Costs related to the credit facility
amendment consisted of a loan fee of 0.50% of the credit

14

Table of Contents   

facility amount, or $100,000, plus the
bank s out of pocket expenses associated with the amended credit facility. This amended letter of
credit facility will be available to the Company through October 26, 2006. At January 31, 2006
outstanding letters of credit secured by this facility totaled $12.8 million.

9. Installment Loan 

In December 2005, the Company entered into a note and security agreement with a financial
institution. Under this agreement, the Company borrowed $9.9 million at an interest rate of 5.9%
per annum. The note is payable in 60 equal monthly installments beginning in January 2006 and is
secured by certain property and equipment of the Company. The Company s bank issued an irrevocable
transferable standby letter of credit in the amount of $9.9 million for the benefit of the lender
under the letter of credit facility described in note 8. At January 31, 2006, the remaining
principal balance outstanding under this note was $9.8 million.

10. Convertible Debt 

Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2008  

On October 15, 2001, the Company sold $125 million aggregate principal amount of 5 1/4%
convertible subordinated notes due October 15, 2008. Interest on the notes is 5 1/4% per year on
the principal amount, payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15. The notes are convertible,
at the option of the holder, at any time on or prior to maturity into shares of the Company s
common stock at a conversion price of $5.52 per share, which is equal to a conversion rate of
approximately 181.159 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes. The conversion price is subject
to adjustment. The notes may be redeemed by the Company for a cash payment of 102.25% of the
principal amount on or after October 15, 2005, 101.50% of the principal amount on or after October
15, 2006 and 100.75% of the principal amount on or after October 15, 2007, together with accrued
and unpaid interest.

Because the market value of the stock rose above the conversion price between the day the
notes were priced and the day the proceeds were collected, the Company recorded a discount of $38.3
million related to the intrinsic value of the beneficial conversion feature. This amount is being
amortized to interest expense over the life of the convertible notes, or sooner upon conversion.

The notes are subordinated to all of the Company s existing and future senior indebtedness and
effectively subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of its
subsidiaries. Because the notes are subordinated, in the event of bankruptcy, liquidation,
dissolution or acceleration of payment on the senior indebtedness, holders of the notes will not
receive any payment until holders of the senior indebtedness have been paid in full. The indenture
does not limit the incurrence by the Company or its subsidiaries of senior indebtedness or other
indebtedness.

Upon a change in control of the Company, each holder of the notes may require the Company to
repurchase some or all of the notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of
the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. Instead of paying the change of control purchase price
in cash the Company may, at its option, pay it in shares of the Company s common stock valued at
95% of the average of the closing sales prices of its common stock for the five trading days
immediately preceding and including the third trading day prior to the date the Company is required
to repurchase the notes. The Company cannot pay the change in control
purchase price in common stock unless the Company satisfies the conditions described in the
indenture under which the notes have been issued.

The notes are represented by one or more global notes, deposited with the trustee as custodian
for The Depository Trust Company, or DTC, and registered in the name of Cede   Co., DTC s nominee.
Beneficial interests in the global notes will be shown on, and transfers will be effected only
through, records maintained by DTC and its participants. The notes are eligible for trading in the
PORTAL market.

Unamortized debt issuance costs associated with these notes for the nine months ended January
31, 2006 and 2005, were $1.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively. Amortization of prepaid loan
costs are classified as other income (expense), net on the consolidated statement of operations.
Amortization of prepaid loan costs for the nine months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 were
$407,000 and $407,000, respectively.

Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2010  

On October 15, 2003, the Company sold $150 million aggregate principal amount of 2 1/2%
convertible subordinated notes due October 15, 2010. Interest on the notes is 2 1/2% per year,
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15, beginning on April 15, 2004. The notes are
convertible, at the option of the holder, at any time on or prior to maturity into shares of the
Company s common stock at a conversion price of $3.705 per share, which is equal to a conversion
rate of approximately 269.9055 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes. The conversion price is
subject to adjustment.

15

Table of Contents   

At issuance of the notes the Company purchased and pledged to a collateral agent, as security
for the exclusive benefit of the holders of the notes, approximately $14.4 million of U.S.
government securities, which will be sufficient upon receipt of scheduled principal and interest
payments thereon, to provide for the payment in full of the first eight scheduled interest payments
due on the notes. At January 31, 2006, approximately $7.4 million of U.S. government securities
remained pledged as security for the note holders.

The notes are subordinated to all of the Company s existing and future senior indebtedness and
effectively subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of its
subsidiaries. Because the notes are subordinated, in the event of bankruptcy, liquidation,
dissolution or acceleration of payment on the senior indebtedness, holders of the notes will not
receive any payment until holders of the senior indebtedness have been paid in full. The indenture
does not limit the incurrence by the Company or its subsidiaries of senior indebtedness or other
indebtedness. The Company may redeem the notes, in whole or in part, at any time on or after
October 15, 2007 up to, but not including, the maturity date if the closing price of the Company s
common stock exceeds $5.56 per share for at least 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive
trading days.

Upon a change in control of the Company, or on October 15, 2007, each holder of the notes may
require the Company to repurchase some or all of the notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of
the principal amount of the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company may, at its option,
pay all or a portion of the repurchase price in shares of the Company s common stock valued at 95%
of the average of the closing sales prices of its common stock for the five trading days
immediately preceding and including the third trading day prior to the date the Company is required
to repurchase the notes. The Company cannot pay the repurchase price in common stock unless the
Company satisfies the conditions described in the indenture under which the notes have been issued.

The notes were issued in fully registered form and are represented by one or more global
notes, deposited with the trustee as custodian for DTC and registered in the name of Cede   Co.,
DTC s nominee. Beneficial interests in the global notes will be shown on, and transfers will be
effected only through, records maintained by DTC and its participants.

The Company agreed to use its best efforts to file a shelf registration statement covering the
notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion of the stock and keep such registration
statement effective until two years after the latest date on which the Company issued notes in the
offering (or such earlier date when the holders of the notes and the common stock issuable upon
conversion of the notes are able to sell their securities immediately pursuant to Rule 144(k) under
the Securities Act). If the Company does not comply with these registration obligations, the
Company will be required to pay liquidated damages to the holders of the notes or the common stock
issuable upon conversion. The Company will not receive any of the proceeds from the sale by any
selling security holders of the notes or the underlying common stock. A registration statement
covering the notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion thereof was declared effective in
February 2004. In November 2005, the Company de-registered all of the shares under this shelf
registration.

Unamortized
debt issuance costs associated with these notes were $3.3 million and $3.8 million
at January 31, 2006 and April 30, 2005, respectively. Amortization of prepaid loan costs is
classified as other income (expense), net on the consolidated statement of
operations. Amortization of prepaid loan costs related to these notes for the nine months
ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 were $527,000 and $531,000, respectively.

11. Inventories 

Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):

During
the three and nine months ended January 31, 2006, the Company recorded charges of $5.4
million and $6.5 million, respectively, for excess and obsolete inventory, and sold inventory that
was written-off in previous periods with an approximate cost of $500,000 and $3.2 million,
respectively. As a result, cost of revenue associated with the sale of this inventory was zero.

During the three and nine months ended January 31, 2005, the Company recorded charges of $2.2
million and $10.0 million, respectively, for excess and obsolete inventory, and sold inventory that
was written-off in previous periods with an approximate cost of $2.7 million and $7.5 million,
respectively. As a result, cost of revenue associated with the sale of this inventory was zero.

16

Table of Contents   

Additionally, the Company recorded a benefit of $2.7 million for a reduction in our reserve for
non-cancellable purchase orders in the nine months ended January 31, 2005.

12. Property, Plant, Equipment and Improvements 

Property, equipment and improvements consist of the following (in thousands):

13. Income Taxes 

The Company recorded
 a provision for income taxes of $675,000 and $1,926,000 for the three and
nine months, respectively, ended January 31, 2006 compared to $0 and $57,000 for the three and nine
months, respectively, ended January 31, 2005. The provision in
fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from a
deferred tax liability that was established to reflect tax amortization of goodwill for which no
financial statement amortization has occurred under generally accepted accounting principles, as
promulgated by SFAS 142, state minimum taxes and foreign income taxes
arising in certain foreign jurisdictions in which the Company
conducts business operations. The provision for income taxes in fiscal 2005 primarily
consisted of state minimum taxes.

Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income, if any, the amount
and timing of which are uncertain. Accordingly, the net deferred tax assets as of January 31, 2006
have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. The Company does not expect to record any tax
benefit for future operating losses that may be sustained in fiscal 2006.

A portion of the valuation allowance at January 31, 2006 related to stock option deductions
that are not currently realizable and will be credited to paid-in capital if and when realized. The
remaining portion of the valuation allowance, when realized, will first reduce unamortized
goodwill, then other non-current intangible assets of acquired subsidiaries and then income tax
expense. There can be no assurance that deferred tax assets subject to the valuation allowance will
be realized.

Utilization of the Company s net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be subject to
a substantial annual limitation due to the ownership change limitations set forth by Internal
Revenue Code Section 382 and similar state provisions. Such an annual limitation could result in
the expiration of the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards before utilization.

14. Purchased Intangible Assets Including Goodwill 

During the first nine months of fiscal 2006, the Company recorded $4.3 million of additional
goodwill in the optical subsystems and components reporting unit. The addition was primarily due
to a reassessment of the allocation of the purchase price of assets related to the acquisition of
the transceiver and transponder business of Infineon Technologies AG which was completed in January
2005. The reassessment reduced the allocation to a minority investment by $4.2 million. The
Company also recorded additional payments of $184,000 associated with the Infineon acquisition.
The Company recorded additional goodwill of $8.5 million in the network test and monitoring systems
reporting unit. The addition was due to $8.1 million recorded in connection with the acquisition
of InterSAN, additional payments of $112,000 for the I-TECH acquisition and $59,000 for the Data
Transit acquisition, and an adjustment related to I-TECH inventory of $225,000.

During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company determined that the remaining intangible
assets related to certain purchased optical amplifier technology related to the Company s
acquisition of certain assets of Genoa Corporation and certain intangible assets related to passive
optical technology acquired with our acquisition of Transwave Fiber, Inc., had a fair value of
zero. Accordingly, an impairment charge of $853,000 was recorded against the remaining net book
value of these assets.

17

Table of Contents   

The following table reflects the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reporting unit
(in thousands):

The following table reflects intangible assets subject to amortization as of January 31, 2006
and April 30, 2005 (in thousands):

Estimated remaining amortization expense for each of the next five fiscal years ending April
30, is as follows (dollars in thousands):

18

Table of Contents   

15. Available-For-Sale Investments 

The following is a summary of the Company s available-for-sale investments as of January 31,
2006 and April 30, 2005 (in thousands):

The gross realized losses for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2006 were ($2,000)
and ($18,000), respectively. The gross realized gains (losses) for the three and nine months ended
January 31, 2005 were ($13,000) and $15,000, respectively. Realized gains and losses were
calculated based on the specific identification method.

Restricted Securities  

The Company has purchased and pledged to a collateral agent, as security for the exclusive
benefit of the holders of the Company s 2 1/2% convertible subordinated notes, U.S. government
securities, which will be sufficient upon receipt of scheduled principal and interest payments
thereon, to provide for the payment in full of the first eight scheduled interest payments due on
each series of its outstanding convertible subordinated notes. These restricted securities are
classified as held to maturity and are recorded on the Company s consolidated balance sheet at
amortized cost. The following table summarizes the Company s restricted securities as of January
31, 2006 and April 30, 2005 (in thousands):

19

Table of Contents   

Cost Method Investments  

Included in minority investments at January 31, 2006 and April 30, 2005 are cost method
investments of $11.3 million and $15.4 million, respectively. Minority investments at April 30,
2005 represents the carrying value of the Company s minority investments in three privately held
companies accounted for under the cost method. During the quarter ended July 31, 2005, the Company
re-assessed the value assigned to a minority investment acquired on January 31, 2005 as part of the
Infineon acquisition and determined the value of the investment should have been zero. As a result,
the Company reclassified the purchase price originally allocated to the investment to goodwill.

Equity Method Investment  

Included in minority investments at January 31, 2006 and April 30, 2005 are $4.4 million and
$6.0 million, respectively, representing the carrying value of the Company s minority investment in
one private company, Quintessence Photonics, accounted for under the equity method. During the
three and nine months ended January 31, 2006, the Company recorded expenses of $477,000 and
$1,516,000 respectively, representing the Company s share of the loss of the investee, which was
classified as other expense. During the three and nine months ended January 31, 2005, the Company
recorded expenses of $430,000 and $1,223,000, respectively, for its share of the loss of the
investee.

16. Segments and Geographic Information 

The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets optical subsystems, components and
test and monitoring systems for high-speed data communications. The Company views its business as
having two principal operating segments, consisting of optical subsystems and components and
network test and monitoring systems.

Optical subsystems consist primarily of transceivers sold to manufacturers of storage and
networking equipment for storage area networks (SANs) and local area networks (LANs) and
metropolitan access network (MAN) applications. Optical subsystems also include multiplexers,
de-multiplexers and optical add/drop modules for use in MAN applications. Optical components
consist primarily of packaged lasers and photo-detectors which are incorporated in transceivers,
primarily for LAN and SAN applications. Network test and monitoring systems include products
designed to test the reliability and performance of equipment for a variety of protocols including
Fibre Channel, Gigabit Ethernet, 10 Gigabit Ethernet, iSCSI, SAS and SATA. These test and
monitoring systems are sold to both manufacturers and end-users of the equipment.

Both of the Company s operating segments and its corporate sales function report to the
President and Chief Executive Officer. Where appropriate, the Company charges specific costs to
these segments where they can be identified and allocates certain manufacturing costs, research and
development, sales and marketing and general and administrative costs to these operating segments,
primarily on the basis of manpower levels or a percentage of sales. The Company does not allocate
income taxes, non-operating income, acquisition related costs, stock compensation, interest income
and interest expense to its operating segments. The accounting policies of the segments are the
same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies. There are no
intersegment sales.

20

Table of Contents   

Information about reportable segment revenues and income/(losses) are as follows (in
thousands):

The following is a summary of total assets by segment (in thousands):

Short-term, restricted and minority investments are the primary components of other assets in
the above table.

21

Table of Contents   

The following is a summary of operations within geographic areas based on the location of the
entity purchasing the Company s products (in thousands):

Revenues generated in the United States are all from sales to customers located in the United
States.

The following is a summary of long-lived assets within geographic areas based on the location
of the assets (in thousands):

The following is a summary of capital expenditures by reportable segment (in thousands):

17. Warranty 

The Company generally offers a one-year limited warranty for all of its products. The specific
terms and conditions of these warranties vary depending upon the product sold. The Company
estimates the costs that may be incurred under its basic limited warranty and records a liability
in the amount of such costs based on revenue recognized. Factors that affect the Company s warranty
liability include historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims and cost per claim. The
Company periodically assesses the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities and adjusts the
amounts as necessary.

Changes in the Company s warranty liability during the following period were as follows (in
thousands):

18. Restructuring 

During the quarter ended October 31, 2005, the Company consolidated its Sunnyvale facilities
into one building and permanently exited a portion of its Scotts Valley facility. As a result of
these activities, the Company recorded restructuring charges of

22

Table of Contents   

approximately $3.1 million. These restructuring charges include $290,000 of miscellaneous
costs required to effect the closures and approximately $2.8 million of non-cancelable facility
lease payments. Of the $3.1 million in restructuring charges, $1.9 million relates to our optical
subsystems and components segment and $1.2 million relates to our network test and monitoring
systems segment.

As of January 31, 2006, $2.4 million of committed facilities payments remain accrued and are
expected to be fully utilized by the end of fiscal 2011. This amount relates to restructuring
activities associated with the closure of the Company s Hayward facility that took place in fiscal
2003 and the consolidation and exit activities of the Sunnyvale and Scotts Valley facilities during
the second quarter of fiscal 2006.

19. Pending Litigation 

A securities class action lawsuit was filed on November 30, 2001 in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York, purportedly on behalf of all persons who purchased the
Company s common stock from November 17, 1999 through December 6, 2000. The complaint named as
defendants Finisar, Jerry S. Rawls, its President and Chief Executive Officer, Frank H. Levinson,
its former Chairman of the Board and Chief Technical Officer, Stephen K. Workman, its Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, and an investment banking firm that served as an underwriter
for its initial public offering in November 1999 and a secondary offering in April 2000. The
complaint, as subsequently amended, alleges violations of Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act
of 1933 and Sections 10(b) and 20(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, on the grounds that
the prospectuses incorporated in the registration statements for the offerings failed to disclose,
among other things, that (i) the underwriter had solicited and received excessive and undisclosed
commissions from certain investors in exchange for which the underwriter allocated to those
investors material portions of the shares of its stock sold in the offerings and (ii) the
underwriter had entered into agreements with customers whereby the underwriter agreed to allocate
shares of its stock sold in the offerings to those customers in exchange for which the customers
agreed to purchase additional shares of its stock in the aftermarket at pre-determined prices. No
specific damages are claimed. Similar allegations have been made in lawsuits relating to more than
300 other initial public offerings conducted in 1999 and 2000, which were consolidated for pretrial
purposes. In October 2002, all claims against the individual defendants were dismissed without
prejudice. On February 19, 2003, the Court denied our motion to dismiss the complaint. In July
2004, the Company and the individual defendants accepted a settlement proposal made to all of the
issuer defendants. Under the terms of the settlement, the plaintiffs will dismiss and release all
claims against participating defendants in exchange for a contingent payment guaranty by the
insurance companies collectively responsible for insuring the issuers in all related cases, and the
assignment or surrender to the plaintiffs of certain claims the issuer defendants may have against
the underwriters. Under the guaranty, the insurers will be required to pay the amount, if any, by
which $1 billion exceeds the aggregate amount ultimately collected by the plaintiffs from the
underwriter defendants in all the cases. If the plaintiffs fail to recover $1 billion and payment
is required under the guaranty, the Company would be responsible to pay its pro rata portion of the
shortfall, up to the amount of the self-insured retention under its insurance policy, which may be
up to $2 million. The timing and amount of payments that the Company could be required to make
under the proposed settlement will depend on several factors, principally the timing and amount of
any payment that the insurers may be required to make pursuant to the $1 billion guaranty. The
Court held hearings on April 13, 2005 and September 6, 2005 to determine the form, substance and
program of class notice and the scheduling of a fairness hearing for final approval of the
settlement. The court set a hearing for April 24, 2006 to consider final approval of the
settlement. If the settlement is not approved by the Court, the Company intends to defend the
lawsuit vigorously. Because of the inherent uncertainty of litigation, however, the Company cannot
predict its outcome. If, as a result of this dispute, the Company is required to pay significant
monetary damages, its business would be substantially harmed.

On April 4, 2005, the Company filed an action in the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Texas against the DirecTV Group, Inc.; DirecTV Holdings, LLC; DirecTV
Enterprises, LLC; DirecTV Operations, LLC; DirecTV, Inc.; and Hughes Network Systems, Inc.
(collectively,  DirecTV ). The lawsuit involves the Company s U.S. Patent No. 5,404,505 which
relates to technology used in information transmission systems to provide access to a large
database. The Company s complaint alleges that DirecTV willfully infringes its patent by making,
using, selling, offering to sell and/or importing systems and/or methods related to the
transmission of electronic programming guides via satellite broadcast that embody one or more of
the claims of the patent. The complaint seeks monetary damages as well as an injunction against
future infringement. On May 13, 2005, DirecTV answered the complaint and filed a counterclaim that
seeks a declaration of non-infringement, patent invalidity and patent unenforceability. On October
17, 2005, the parties filed a joint claim construction statement agreeing on construction of twelve
terms. The claim construction hearing was held on January 25, 2006. The Court issued an order
construing the claims on February 17, 2006 and a subsequent order on February 21, 2006, clarifying
one of the patent s claim terms. The trial is scheduled for June 6, 2006.

On
September 6, 2005, the Company filed an action in the United States District
Court for the District of Delaware against Agilent Technologies, Inc. ( Agilent ). The lawsuit
alleges that Agilent willfully infringes the Company s U.S. Patents No. 5,019,769 and No.
6,941,077, relating to its digital diagnostics technology, by developing, manufacturing, using,
importing, selling and/or offering to sell optoelectronic transceivers that embody one or more of
the claims of the patents. The complaint seeks damages for lost profits of at least $1.1 billion
based on Agilent s sales of infringing products. The Company also seeks to treble those damages
based on the

23

Table of Contents   

willful nature of Agilent s infringement and to obtain an injunction against future
infringement. On October 24, 2005, the Company filed an amended complaint adding allegations of
infringement of its U.S. Patents No. 6,952,531 and No. 6,957,021, two patents that also relate to
its digital diagnostic technology. On December 7, 2005, Agilent answered the complaint denying
infringement and asserting patent invalidity. The Court has set a trial date of September 4, 2007.

On February 22, 2006, Avago Technologies General IP Pte. Ltd. and Avago Technologies Fiber IP
Pte. Ltd., both Singaporean corporations, filed suit against the Company in the United States
District Court for the District of Delaware, alleging that the Company s short-wavelength
optoelectronic transceivers infringe U.S. Patents Nos. 5,359,447 and 5,761,229. The Avago entities
were created as a result of the recent acquisition of Agilent s Semiconductor Products Group (which
included Agilent s optoelectronic transceiver business) by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts   Co., Silver
Lake Partners, and others. The complaint sought damages for willful infringement, injunctive
relief, prejudgment interest, and attorneys  fees. On March 2, 2006, Avago dismissed the complaint
without prejudice.

On October 6, 2005, The Epoch Group, Inc. ( Epoch ) sued the Company in the United States
District Court for the Central District of California. Epoch s complaint, as amended on November
28, 2005, alleged that the Company violated federal antitrust laws and the Lanham Act and committed
defamation per se by, among other things, disparaging Epoch s products and services, maintaining
secret prices and purchasing competing companies. The amended complaint sought damages in the
amount of $9 million. The federal action was based largely on facts similar to those alleged by
Epoch in an action against the Company filed on February 22, 2005 in the California Superior Court
for the County of Ventura. In the state action, Epoch alleged interference with contract and
unfair business practices and sought damages of approximately $5 million. The state court
complaint alleged, among other things, that the Company interfered with an Epoch sale contract with
EMC Corporation by offering EMC a secret discount on the Company s products. On April 5, 2005, the
Company filed a cross-complaint against Epoch alleging interference with prospective economic
advantage, unfair competition, misappropriation of trade secrets, civil conspiracy, unfair
competition and trade libel and seeking damages of at least $1 million. As alleged by Finisar  
and by EMC   EMC canceled Epoch s sale contract because it learned that Epoch had bribed a
now-terminated EMC employee to get the contract in the first instance. Trial in the state action
was set for February 25, 2006. On January 30, 2006, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the
federal complaint in its entirety. On February 21, 2006, the Court issued an order granting
the Company s motion and dismissing all of Epoch s claims without prejudice. Prior to the entry of that
order, at a February 7, 2006 mandatory settlement conference in the state action, the parties
agreed to settle both lawsuits on the basis of mutual dismissals with prejudice and mutual releases
with no money changing hands.

20. Guarantees and Indemnifications 

In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others  ( FIN 45 ).
FIN 45 requires that upon issuance of a guarantee, the guarantor must recognize a liability for the
fair value of the obligations it assumes under that guarantee. As permitted under Delaware law and
in accordance with the Company s Bylaws, the Company indemnifies its officers and directors for
certain events or occurrences, subject to certain limits, while the officer or director is or was
serving at the Company s request in such capacity. The term of the indemnification period is for
the officer s or director s lifetime. The Company may terminate the indemnification agreements with
its officers and directors upon 90 days written notice, but termination will not affect claims for
indemnification relating to events occurring prior to the effective date of termination. The
maximum amount of potential future indemnification is unlimited; however, the Company has a
director and officer insurance policy that may enable it to recover a portion of any future amounts
paid.

The Company enters into indemnification obligations under its agreements with other companies
in its ordinary course of business, including agreements with customers, business partners, and
insurers. Under these provisions the Company generally indemnifies and holds harmless the
indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party as a result of the
Company s activities or the use of the Company s products. These indemnification provisions
generally survive termination of the underlying agreement. In some cases, the maximum potential
amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these indemnification
provisions is unlimited.

The Company believes the fair value of these indemnification agreements is minimal.
Accordingly, the Company has not recorded any liabilities for these agreements as of January 31,
2006. To date, the Company has not incurred material costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims
related to these indemnification agreements.

21. Sales of Accounts Receivable 

On October 29, 2004, the Company entered into an agreement with Silicon Valley Bank to sell
certain trade receivables. In these non-recourse sales, the Company removes the sold receivables
from its books and records no liability related to the sale, as the Company has assessed that the
sales should be accounted for as  true sales  in accordance with SFAS No. 140  Accounting for
Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities.  On October 20,
2005, the Company entered into an amendment to this agreement to extend the availability of this
facility to October 26, 2006. During the three and nine months ended

24

Table of Contents   

January 31, 2006, the Company sold approximately $4.4 million and $15.5 million, respectively,
of its trade receivables to Silicon Valley Bank under the terms of this agreement.

22. Gain on Sale of a Minority Investment 

In November 2005, the Company received cash payments from Goodrich Corporation totaling $11.0
million related to the sale of the Company s equity interest in Sensors Unlimited, Inc. The
Company had not valued this interest for accounting purposes. Accordingly, the Company recorded a
gain of $11.0 million related to this transaction in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and
classified this amount as other income (expense), net on the consolidated statement of operations.

25

Table of Contents   

Item 2.    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and
uncertainties. Our actual results could differ substantially from those anticipated in these
forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth below under
 Factors That Could Affect Our Future Performance.  The following discussion should be read
together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in
this report.

Overview 

We were incorporated in 1987 and funded our initial product development efforts largely
through revenues derived under research and development contracts. After shipping our first
products in 1991, we continued to finance our operations principally through internal cash flow and
periodic bank borrowings until November 1998. At that time we raised $5.6 million of net proceeds
from the sale of equity securities and bank borrowings to fund the continued growth and development
of our business. In November 1999, we received net proceeds of $151.0 million from the initial
public offering of shares of our common stock, and in April 2000 we received $190.6 million from an
additional public offering of shares of our common stock. In October 2001, we sold $125 million
aggregate principal amount of 5 1/4% convertible subordinated notes due October 15, 2008, and in
October 2003, we sold $150 million aggregate principal amount of 2 1/2% convertible subordinated
notes due October 15, 2010.

From October 2000 through May 2002, we acquired a number of companies and certain businesses
and assets of other companies, including Sensors Unlimited, Inc. and Demeter Technologies, Inc., in
order to broaden our product offerings, to become more vertically
integrated and to provide new sources
of revenue, production capabilities and access to advanced technologies that we believe will enable
us to reduce our product costs and develop innovative and more highly integrated product platforms
while accelerating the timeframe required to develop such products.

In October 2002, we sold our subsidiary, Sensors Unlimited, Inc. to a new company organized by
a management group led by Dr. Greg Olsen, then an officer and director of Finisar and a former
majority owner of Sensors Unlimited. The intellectual property developed after the acquisition of
Sensors Unlimited was transferred to other operations within Finisar. In November 2002, we
discontinued a product line at our Demeter Technologies subsidiary that was not making a
significant contribution to our operating results and was no longer considered a key part of our
product strategy. Certain assets of Demeter Technologies were sold in conjunction with the product
line discontinuation. In April 2003, we acquired Genoa Corporation and announced the closure of
Demeter Technologies and the consolidation of all long wavelength active device development and
wafer fabrication operations into the Genoa facility. The consolidation was completed in fiscal
2004. Today, the former Genoa facility produces a number of laser and receiver components used in
our transceiver products designed for longer distance MAN
applications.

In March 2004, we acquired Honeywell International Inc. s VCSEL Optical Products business.
Prior to this acquisition, we purchased vertical cavity
surface emitting lasers, or VCSELs, from this division that were used in all of our transceiver products for shorter distance
LAN and SAN applications. As a result of the Honeywell acquisition, we now sell VCSELs in
the merchant market, and we intend to evaluate opportunities to increase the sale of these and
other components in the merchant market.

In January 2005, we acquired the transceiver and transponder product lines of Infineon
Technologies AG in order to broaden our product portfolio, expand our customer base and increase
our revenues with the added benefits to be derived from greater economies of scale. Through January
2006, Infineon supplied products to us under a contract manufacturing arrangement. As of January 31,
2006, all product lines had been transferred to our primary manufacturing facility located in Ipoh,
Malaysia.

The principal strategic goal of most of our acquisitions to date related to our network test
and monitoring business has been to broaden our product portfolio and to gain access to new
distribution channels. The acquisition of assets and intellectual property of Data Transit, Inc. in
August 2004, I-TECH CORP. in April 2005, and InterSAN, Inc. in May 2005 were examples of our
pursuit of this strategy. As a result of these acquisitions, we have expanded our product offerings
for SAN test, analysis and monitoring tools to include additional products which test and monitor
storage networks using the SAS and SATA protocols as well as additional tools for testing and
reconfiguring SANs.

To date, our revenues have been principally derived from sales of our optical subsystems to
networking and storage systems manufacturers and sales of our network performance test systems to
these manufacturers as well as end users. Optical subsystems consist primarily of transceivers sold
to manufacturers of storage and networking equipment for SANs, LANs, and MAN applications. A large
proportion of our sales are concentrated with a relatively small number of customers. Although we
are attempting to expand our customer base, we expect that significant customer concentration will
continue for the foreseeable future.

We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, title and risk of loss
pass to the customer, which is generally upon shipment, the price is fixed or determinable and
collectability is reasonably assured. For those arrangements with

26

Table of Contents   

multiple elements, or in related arrangements with the same customer, we allocate revenue to
the separate elements based upon each element s fair value as determined by the list price for such
element.

We sell our products through our direct sales force, with the support of our manufacturers 
representatives, directly to domestic customers and indirectly through distribution channels to
international customers. The evaluation and qualification cycle prior to the initial sale for our
optical subsystems may span a year or more, while the sales cycle for our test and monitoring
systems is usually considerably shorter.

The market for optical subsystems and components is characterized by declining average selling
prices resulting from factors such as industry over-capacity, increased competition, the
introduction of new products and the growth in unit volumes as manufacturers continue to deploy
network and storage systems. We anticipate that our average selling prices will continue to
decrease in future periods, although the timing and amount of these decreases cannot be predicted
with any certainty.

Our cost of revenues consists of materials, salaries and related expenses for manufacturing
personnel, manufacturing overhead, warranty expense, inventory adjustments for obsolete and excess
inventory and the amortization of acquired developed technology associated with acquisitions that
we have made. Historically, we outsourced the majority of our assembly operations. However, in
fiscal 2002, we commenced manufacturing of our optical subsystem products at our subsidiary in
Ipoh, Malaysia. We conduct component manufacturing, manufacturing engineering, supply chain
management, quality assurance and documentation control at our facilities in Sunnyvale, California
and Allen, Texas and at our subsidiaries  facilities in Fremont, California, Shanghai, China and
Ipoh, Malaysia. With the transition of most of our production to Malaysia and the added
manufacturing infrastructure associated with several acquisitions completed during the past two
years, our cost structure has become more fixed, making it more difficult to reduce costs during
periods when demand for our products is weak, product mix is unfavorable or selling prices are
generally lower. While we have undertaken measures to reduce our operating costs over the last
several fiscal years, there can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce our cost of revenues
enough to sustain profitability during periods of weak demand or when average selling
prices are low.

Our gross profit margins vary among our product families, and are generally higher on our
network test and monitoring systems than on our optical subsystems and components. Our optical
products sold for longer distance MAN and telecom applications typically have higher gross margins
than our products for shorter distance LAN and SAN applications. Our gross margins are generally
lower for newly introduced products and improve as unit volumes increase. Our overall gross margins
have fluctuated from period to period as a result of overall revenue levels, shifts in product mix,
the introduction of new products, decreases in average selling prices and our ability to reduce
product costs.

Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses for
design engineers and other technical personnel, the cost of developing prototypes and fees paid to
consultants. We charge all research and development expenses to operations as incurred. We believe
that continued investment in research and development is critical to our long-term success.

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of commissions paid to manufacturers 
representatives, salaries and related expenses for personnel engaged in sales, marketing and field
support activities and other costs associated with the promotion of our products.

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses for
administrative, finance and human resources personnel, professional fees, and other corporate
expenses.

In connection with the grant of stock options to employees between August 1, 1998 and October
15, 1999, we recorded deferred stock compensation representing the difference between the deemed
value of our common stock for accounting purposes and the exercise price of these options at the
date of grant. In connection with the assumption of stock options previously granted to employees
of companies we acquired, we recorded deferred compensation representing the difference between the
fair market value of our common stock on the date of closing of each acquisition and the exercise
price of the unvested portion of options granted by those companies which we assumed. Deferred
stock compensation is presented as a reduction of stockholder s equity, with accelerated
amortization recorded over the vesting period, which is typically three to five years. The amount
of deferred stock compensation expense to be recorded in future periods could decrease if options
for which accrued but unvested compensation has been recorded are forfeited prior to vesting and
could increase if we modify the terms of an option grant resulting in a new measurement date.

Acquired in-process research and development represents the amount of the purchase price in a
business combination allocated to research and development projects underway at the acquired
company that had not reached the technologically feasible stage as of the closing of the
acquisition and for which we had no alternative future use.

27

Table of Contents   

A portion of the purchase price in a business combination is allocated to goodwill and
intangibles. Prior to May 1, 2002, goodwill and purchased intangibles were amortized over their
estimated useful lives. Subsequent to May 1, 2002, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite
lives are no longer amortized but subject to annual impairment testing.

Impairment charges consist of write downs to the carrying value of intangible assets and
goodwill arising from various business combinations to their implied fair value.

Restructuring costs generally include termination costs for employees associated with a formal
restructuring plan and the cost of facilities, including costs for non-cancelable leases in vacated
facilities, and other costs related to exit activities.

Other acquisition costs primarily consist of incentive payments for employee retention
included in certain of the purchase agreements of companies we acquired and costs incurred in
connection with transactions that were not completed.

Other income and expenses generally consist of bank fees, gains or losses as a result of the
periodic sale of assets and other-than-temporary decline in the value of investments.

Recent Acquisitions 

Acquisition of Transceiver and Transponder Product Line From Infineon Technologies AG  

On January 31, 2005, we acquired certain assets of Infineon s fiber optics business unit
associated with the design, development and manufacture of optical transceiver and transponder
products in exchange for 34 million shares of our common stock. The acquisition expanded our
product offering and customer base for optical transceivers and transponders and expanded our
portfolio of intellectual property used in designing and manufacturing these products as well as
those to be developed in the future. The amount of goodwill recorded in this acquisition reflected
the value to be realized associated with cost savings resulting from integrating these products
with our Optical Subsystems and Components Division as well as the incremental growth in revenue
and earnings from the sale of future products. We did not acquire any employees or assume any
liabilities as part of the acquisition, except for obligations under customer contracts. The 34
million shares of our common stock issued to Infineon were valued at approximately $59.5 million
based on the closing price of our common stock on January 31, 2005. The acquisition was accounted
for as a purchase and, accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired assets (beginning
with the closing date of the acquisition) and the estimated fair value of assets acquired were
included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on January 31, 2005, the first day of
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.

Acquisition of I-TECH Corp.  

On April 8, 2005, we completed our acquisition of I-TECH Corp., a privately-held network test
and monitoring company based in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. The acquisition expanded our product
offering for testing and monitoring systems, particularly for those systems relying on the use of
the Fibre Channel protocol, and expanded our portfolio of intellectual property used in designing
and manufacturing these products as well as those to be developed in the future. The amount of
goodwill recorded with this acquisition reflected the underlying patents and know-how used in
manufacturing future products and cost synergies associated with integrating the operations of
I-TECH with our Network Tools Division. The acquisition agreement provided for the merger of I-TECH
with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finisar and the issuance by Finisar to the sole holder of
I-TECH s common stock of promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $12.1
million. The notes are convertible into shares of Finisar common stock over a period of one year
following the closing of the acquisition. The exact number of shares of Finisar common stock to be
issued pursuant to the promissory notes is dependent on the trading price of Finisar s common stock
on the dates of conversion of the notes. The results of operations of I-TECH (beginning with the
closing date of the acquisition) and the estimated fair value of assets acquired were included in
our consolidated financial statements beginning in the fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal 2005.

Acquisition of InterSAN, Inc.  

On May 12, 2005, we completed the acquisition of InterSAN, Inc., a privately held company
located in Scotts Valley, California. The acquisition expanded our product offering for testing and
monitoring systems. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, the holders of InterSAN s
securities will be entitled to receive up to 7,132,186 shares of Finisar common stock having a
value of approximately $8.8 million. Approximately 10% of the shares of Finisar common stock that
would otherwise have been distributed to the holders of InterSAN s securities at the closing of the
acquisition were deposited into an escrow account for 12 months following the closing for the
purpose of providing a fund against which we may assert claims for damages, if any, based on
breaches of the representations and warranties made by InterSAN in the agreement. The issuance of
such shares was not registered under the Securities Act in reliance on the exemption from
registration provided by Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act. The results of operations of
InterSAN (beginning with the closing date of the acquisition) and the estimated fair value of
assets acquired are included in the network test and monitoring segment of the Company s
consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended July 31, 2005.

28

Table of Contents   

Acquisition of Assets of Big Bear Networks, Inc.  

On November 15, 2005, we completed the purchase of certain assets of Big Bear Networks, Inc.
in exchange for a cash payment of $1.9 million. The acquisition expanded our product offering and
customer base for optical transponders and our portfolio of intellectual property used in designing
and manufacturing these products as well as those to be developed in the future. The acquisition
was accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired assets
(beginning with the closing date of the acquisition) and the estimated fair value of assets
acquired are included in our consolidated financial statements beginning in the third quarter of
fiscal 2006.

Critical Accounting Policies 

There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies, which are described
in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2005.

Pending Adoption of New Accounting Standards 

In November 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued FASB Staff Position
FAS 115-1,   The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain
Investments   ( FSP 115-1 ), which provides guidance on determining when investments in certain debt
and equity securities are considered impaired, whether that impairment is other-than-temporary, and
on measuring such impairment loss. FSP 115-1 also includes accounting considerations subsequent to
the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment and requires certain disclosure about
unrealized losses that have not been recognized as other-than-temporary impairments. FSP115-1 is
effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not believe the adoption
of FSP 115-1 on February 1, 2006 will have a material impact on our financial statements.

On June 7, 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections ,
a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes , and Statement No. 3,  Reporting Accounting
Changes in Interim Financial Statements . Statement 154 changes the requirements for the accounting
for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. Previously, most voluntary changes in
accounting principles required recognition via a cumulative effect adjustment within net income for
the period of the change. Statement 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods 
financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or
the cumulative effect of the change. Statement 154 is effective for accounting changes made in
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005; however, the Statement does not change the
transition provisions of any existing accounting pronouncements. We
do not believe the adoption of
Statement 154 will have a material impact on our financial statements.

In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47,   Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations , (  FIN 47 ) which clarifies that the term  conditional asset retirement
obligation  as used in Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 143,   Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations   ( SFAS 143 ), refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement
activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may
or may not be within the control of the entity. However, the obligation to perform the asset
retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and/or method
of settlement. FIN 47 requires that the uncertainty about the timing and/or method of settlement of
a conditional asset retirement obligation be factored into the measurement of the liability when
sufficient information exists. FIN 47 also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient
information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. FIN 47 is
effective no later than the end of fiscal years ending after
December 15, 2005. We do not believe the adoption of FIN 47 will
have a material impact on our financial statements.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 123R, which replaces SFAS 123 and supersedes Accounting
Principles Board (APB) 25. As permitted by SFAS 123, we currently account for share-based payments
to employees using APB 25 s intrinsic value method. Under APB 25, we generally recognize no
compensation expense for employee stock options, as the exercise prices of the options granted are
usually equal to the quoted market price of our common stock on the date of the grant. SFAS 123R
requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be
recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values, except in limited circumstances
when stock options have been exchanged in a business combination. Under SFAS 123R, the pro forma
disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 will no longer be an alternative to financial
statement recognition. In April 2005, the SEC issued a rule
delaying the required adoption date for SFAS 123R to the first interim period of the first fiscal
year beginning on or after June 15, 2005. We will adopt SFAS 123R as of May 1, 2006.

Under SFAS 123R, we must determine the appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing
share-based payments, the amortization method of compensation cost and the transition method to be
used at date of adoption. The adoption alternatives are the
 modified retrospective  and the  modified
prospective  methods. The modified prospective method requires that compensation expense be recorded for all unvested

29

Table of Contents   

stock options and restricted stock at the beginning of the first quarter of adoption. The
modified retrospective method requires that compensation expense for all unvested stock options and restricted
stock begins with the first period restated. Under the modified
retrospective method, prior periods may be
restated either as of the beginning of the year of adoption or for all periods presented. We expect
to adopt SFAS 123R under the modified prospective method. We are evaluating the requirements of SFAS 123R
and have not yet determined the effect of adopting SFAS 123R or whether the adoption will result in
amounts that are similar to the current pro forma disclosures under SFAS 123, although we expect
that the adoption of SFAS 123R will result in significant stock-based compensation expense.

Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth certain statement of operations data as a percentage of
revenues for the periods indicated:

Revenues.  Revenues increased $20.5 million, or 28.0%, to $93.5 million in the quarter ended
January 31, 2006 compared to $73.1 million in the quarter ended January 31, 2005. Sales of optical
subsystems and components and network test and monitoring systems represented 90.0% and 10.0%,
respectively, of total revenues in the quarter ended January 31, 2006, compared to 86.8% and 13.2%,
respectively, in the quarter ended January 31, 2005.

Revenues increased $55.9 million, or 27.2%, to $261.9 million in the nine months ended January
31, 2006 compared to $206.0 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2005. Sales of optical
subsystems and components and network test and monitoring systems represented 89.4% and 10.6%,
respectively, of total revenues in the nine months ended January 31, 2006, compared to 86.0% and
14.0%, respectively, in the nine months ended January 31, 2005.

Optical subsystems and components revenues increased $20.8 million, or 32.8%, to $84.2 million
in the quarter ended January 31, 2006 compared to $63.4 million in the quarter ended January 31,
2005. Our acquisition on January 31, 2005, of certain assets of

30

Table of Contents   

Infineon s fiber optics business
unit contributed $7.0 million in the quarter ended January 31, 2006. Excluding the effect of the
acquisition, sales of optical subsystems and components increased $13.8 million, or 21.8%, in the
quarter ended January 31, 2006 compared to the quarter ended January 31, 2005. Excluding the effect
of the acquisition, the increase in optical subsystem and component revenues was primarily related
to a $12.8 million increase in sales of products for short distance LAN/SAN applications and a net
$1.0 million increase in sales of products for long distance and telecom applications and other
products. The increase in revenues from the sale of optical subsystems was primarily the result of
an increase in the volume of units sold to existing customers, partially offset by a decrease in
average selling prices.

Optical subsystems and components revenues increased $56.9 million, or 32.2%, to $234.0
million in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to $177.1 million in the nine months
ended January 31, 2005. Our acquisition on January 31, 2005, of certain assets of Infineon s fiber
optics business unit contributed $21.9 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2006. Excluding
the effect of the acquisition, sales of optical subsystems and components increased $35.0 million,
or 19.8%, in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to the nine months ended January 31,
2005. This increase in was primarily related to an increase in sales of products for short distance
LAN/SAN applications. The increase in revenues from the sale of optical subsystems was primarily
the result of an increase in the volume of units sold to existing customers, partially offset by a
decrease in average selling prices.

Network test and monitoring systems revenues decreased $329,000, or 3.4%, to $9.3 million in
the quarter ended January 31, 2006 compared to $9.7 million in the quarter ended January 31, 2005.
Network test and monitoring systems revenues decreased $1.0 million, or 3.5%, to $27.9 million in
the nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to $28.9 million in the nine months ended January
31, 2005. The decrease in revenues for the three and nine months was primarily due to a decrease in
demand resulting from a product lifecycle transition as OEM system manufacturers complete their
transition from 2Ghz to 4Ghz models, partially offset by revenues from acquisitions.

Impairment of Acquired Developed Technology.  Impairment of acquired developed technology, a
component of cost of revenues, decreased $2.8 million, or 76.7%, in the nine months ended January
31, 2006 to $853,000 compared to $3.7 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2005. Included
in the balances for the nine months ended January 31, 2006 was an impairment charge of $853,000 to
write off technology for the linear optical amplifier product acquired with our acquisition of the
assets of Genoa Corporation in April 2003 and technology related to the broadband lightsource
product acquired with our acquisition of Transwave Fiber Inc. in May 2001. Each of these products
was discontinued during the second quarter ended October 31, 2005. Included in the balances for the
nine months ended January 31, 2005 was an impairment charge of $3.7 million to write-off the
remaining net book value of certain passive optical technology associated with our acquisition of
assets of New Focus, Inc. in May 2002. There were no impairment charges in the quarters ended
January 31, 2006 or 2005.

Amortization of Acquired Developed Technology.  Amortization of acquired developed technology,
a component of cost of revenues, decreased $1.4 million, or 25.5%, in the quarter ended January 31,
2006 to $4.0 million compared to $5.4 million in the quarter ended January 31, 2005, and decreased
$1.9 million, or 11.4%, in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 to $15.1 million compared to
$17.0 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2005. The decreases in amortization reflect
impairment charges recorded in fiscal 2006 and 2005 and as well as the roll-off of certain fully
amortized assets during fiscal 2006.

Gross Profit.  Gross profit increased $11.5 million, or 69.0%, to $28.2 million in the quarter
ended January 31, 2006 compared to $16.7 million in the quarter ended January 31, 2005. Gross
profit as a percentage of total revenue was 30.2% in the quarter ended January 31, 2006 compared to
22.8% in the quarter ended January 31, 2005. We recorded charges
of $5.4 million for obsolete and
excess inventory in the quarter ended January 31, 2006 and $2.2 million in the quarter ended
January 31, 2005. We sold inventory that was written-off in previous periods resulting in a benefit
of $500,000 in the quarter ended January 31, 2006 and $2.7 million in the quarter ended January 31,
2005. As a result, we recognized a net charge of $4.9 million in the quarter ended January 31, 2006
compared to a net benefit of $500,000 in the quarter ended January 31, 2005. Excluding the
amortization of acquired developed technology and the net impact of excess and obsolete inventory
charges, gross profit would have been $37.1 million, or 39.7% of revenue, in the quarter ended
January 31, 2006 compared to $21.6 million, or 29.5% of revenue in the quarter ended January 31,
2005. The increase in the adjusted gross profit margin was primarily due to the 28.0% increase in
revenue driven by increases in unit volume compared to an increase in manufacturing spending of
15.9% combined with decreases in material costs.

Gross profit increased $25.1 million, or 64.2%, to $64.1 million in the nine months ended
January 31, 2006 compared to $39.1 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2005. Gross profit
as a percentage of total revenue was 24.5% in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to
19.0% in the nine months ended January 31, 2005. We recorded
charges of $6.5 million for obsolete
and excess inventory in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to $10.0 million in the
nine months ended January 31, 2005, and recorded a benefit of $2.7 million for a reduction in our
reserve for non-cancellable purchase orders in the nine months ended January 31, 2005. We sold
inventory that was written-off in previous periods resulting in a benefit of $3.2 million in the
nine
months ended January 31, 2006 and $7.5 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2005. As a
result, we recognized a net charge of $3.3 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2006
compared to a net benefit of $200,000 in the nine months ended January 31, 2005. Excluding the
amortization of acquired developed technology and the net impact of excess and obsolete inventory
charges,

31

Table of Contents   

gross
profit would have been $83.4 million, or 31.8% of revenue, in the nine months ended
January 31, 2006 compared to $59.5 million, or 28.9% of revenue in the nine months ended January
31, 2005. The increase in the adjusted gross profit margin was primarily due to the 27.2% increase
in revenue driven by increases in unit volume compared to an increase in manufacturing spending of
20.3% combined with decreases in material costs. Manufacturing overhead for the nine months ended
January 31, 2006 included accelerated depreciation charges of $1.7 million for abandoned leasehold
improvements and equipment and duplicate manufacturing facility costs of $2.2 million at our
Advanced Optical Components Division as a result of our move to a new manufacturing facility in
Texas, which adversely impacted our gross profit margin.

Research and Development Expenses.  Research and development expenses decreased $3.0 million,
or 20.7%, to $11.5 million in the quarter ended January 31, 2006 compared to $14.5 million in the
quarter ended January 31, 2005. The decrease was primarily due to reductions in project materials
and new product development scrap of $1.2 million, a reduction in consulting services expenses of
$652,000, and a recharacterization of spending of $737,000 at our Fremont facility from research
and development to manufacturing costs related to increased production at that facility. Research
and development expenses as a percent of revenues decreased to 12.3% in the quarter ended January
31, 2006 compared to 19.9% in the quarter ended January 31, 2005 as a result of cost reductions and
increased revenues.

Research and development expenses decreased $9.0 million, or 18.8%, to $38.7 million in the
nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to $47.7 million in the nine months ended January 31,
2005. The decrease was primarily due to reductions in project materials and new product development
scrap of $5.6 million, reductions in temporary labor and consulting services of $2.3 million and
facility and corporate services allocations of $1.3 million as a result of corporate cost
reductions. Additionally, included in research and development expenses in the nine months ended
January 31, 2006 were charges of $1.9 million related to abandoned leasehold improvements and
equipment. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 14.8% in the
nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to 23.1% in the nine months ended January 31, 2005 as a
result of cost reductions and increased revenues.

Sales and Marketing Expenses.  Sales and marketing expenses increased $940,000, or 13.1%, to
$8.1 million in the quarter ended January, 31 2006 compared to $7.2 million in the quarter ended
January 31, 2005. The increase was primarily due to increased commissions and bonuses as a result
of increased revenues. Sales and marketing expenses as a percent of revenues decreased to 8.7% in
the quarter ended January 31, 2006 compared to 9.8% in the quarter ended January 31, 2005.

Sales and marketing expenses increased $2.1 million, or 9.5%, to $24.0 million in the nine
months ended January 31, 2006 compared to $21.9 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2005.
The increase was primarily due to increased commissions and bonuses as a result of increased
revenues. Included in sales and marketing expenses in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 were
charges of $179,000 related to abandoned leasehold improvements and equipment. Sales and marketing
expenses decreased as a percentage of revenues to 9.2% in the nine months ended January 31, 2006
compared to 10.6% in the nine months ended January 31, 2005.

General and Administrative Expenses.  General and administrative expenses increased $1.2
million, or 21.3%, to $6.6 million in the quarter ended January 31, 2006 compared to $5.5 million
in the quarter ended January 31, 2005. The increase was primarily due to an increase in legal fees
associated with patent related litigation. General and administrative expenses as a percent of
revenues decreased to 7.1% in the quarter ended January 31, 2006 compared to 7.5% in the quarter
ended January 31, 2005.

General and administrative expenses increased $6.3 million, or 41.4%, to $21.4 million in the
nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to $15.2 million in the nine months ended January 31,
2005. Included in general and administrative expenses in the nine months ended January 31, 2006
were accelerated depreciation charges of $130,000 related to abandoned equipment and accelerated
amortization charges of $500,000 related abandoned patents. Additionally, audit fees primarily
associated with the evaluation and testing of internal control systems required under Section 404
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act increased $1.6 million, legal expense increased $1.5 million as a result
of patent related litigation, personnel-related costs increased $1.1 million, including $228,000
for reduction in force related expenses, and our allowance for aged receivables increased $596,000
as a result of higher revenues. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues
increased to 8.2% in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to 7.4% in the nine months
ended January 31, 2005.

Amortization of Deferred Stock Compensation.  Amortization of deferred stock compensation costs
decreased by $21,000 to zero in the quarter ended January 31, 2006, and decreased by $142,000 to
zero in the nine months ended January 31, 2006. As of April 30, 2005, previously recorded deferred
stock compensation was fully amortized.

Amortization of Purchased Intangibles.  Amortization of purchased intangibles increased
$283,000, or 166.5%, to $453,000 in the three months ended January 31, 2006 compared to $170,000 in
the three months ended January 31, 2005. The increase was due to purchased intangibles related to
our acquisitions of Data Transit, Infineon, I-TECH and InterSAN in the amounts of $59,000, $43,000,
$47,000 and $134,000, respectively.

32

Table of Contents   

Amortization of purchased intangibles increased $899,000, or 186.1%, to $1.4 million in the
nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to $483,000 in the nine months ended January 31, 2005.
The increase was due to purchased intangibles related to our acquisitions of Data Transit,
Infineon, I-TECH and InterSAN in the amounts of $210,000, $130,000, $156,000 and $403,000,
respectively.

Restructuring costs . During the second quarter ended October 31, 2005, we completed the
consolidation of our Northern California facilities. The restructuring charges included the
remaining value of non-cancelable lease obligations of $2.8 million for our abandoned corporate
office located in Sunnyvale and a portion of our facility in Scotts Valley and moving costs of
$290,000.

Impairment of assets.  During the third quarter ended January 31, 2005, we recorded an
impairment charge of $18.8 million to write down the carrying value of one of our corporate office
facilities located in Sunnyvale, California upon entering into a sale-leaseback agreement. Due to
retention by us of an option to acquire the leased properties at fair value at the end of the fifth
year of the lease, the sale-leaseback transaction was recorded in the fourth quarter ended April
30, 2005 as a financing transaction under which the sale will not be recorded until the option
expires or is otherwise terminated.

Interest Income.  Interest income increased $297,000, or 52.9%, to $858,000 in the quarter
ended January 31, 2006 compared to $561,000 in the quarter ended January 31, 2005. Interest income
increased $693,000, or 40.5%, to $2.4 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to
$1.7 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2005. The increases for the quarter and nine
months were primarily the result of increased investment balances and interest rates.

Interest Expense.  Interest expense decreased $34,000, or 0.9%, to $3.8 million in the quarter
ended January 31, 2006 compared to $3.9 million in the quarter ended January 31, 2005. Interest
expense increased $968,000, or 9.0%, to $11.8 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2006
compared to $10.8 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2005. Of total interest expense,
$2.3 million is primarily related to our convertible subordinated notes due in 2008 and 2010. In
August 2004, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Data Transit in exchange for a cash
payment and the issuance of a convertible note in the principal amount of $16.3 million, bearing
interest at 8% annually. In the quarter ended April 30, 2005, we recorded a financing liability of
$12.9 million associated with the sale-leaseback of one our corporate office facilities. In April
2005, we acquired I-TECH CORP. in exchange for convertible notes in the aggregate principal amount
of $12.1 million, bearing interest at 3.35% annually. The increase in interest expense was
primarily related to these transactions. At January 31, 2006, substantially all of the principal
and interest associated with the note issued to Data Transit was converted and $843,000 of
principal remained outstanding on the note issued to I-TECH. Of our total interest expense, $1.1
million represented the amortization of the beneficial conversion feature of convertible
subordinated notes in the quarters ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $3.4 million
and $3.2 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Other Income (Expense), Net.  Other income was $10.5 million in the quarter ended January 31,
2006 compared to an expense of $158,000 in the quarter ended January 31, 2005. Other income was
$9.1 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to an expense of $1.8 million in
the nine months ended January 31, 2005. In the quarter ended January 31, 2006, we recorded a gain
on the sale of a minority equity investment of $11.0 million. In the nine months ended January 31,
2005, we recorded a loss of $1.0 million on the sale of equipment. The remaining expense in the
quarters and nine months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 primarily consisted of our proportional
share of losses associated with a minority investment and amortization of subordinated loan costs.

Provision for Income Taxes.  We recorded income tax provisions of $675,000 and $1.9 million,
respectively, for the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2006 compared to provisions of
zero and $57,000, respectively, for the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2005. The
provision for income taxes in the quarter and nine months ended January 31, 2006 is primarily the
result of establishing a deferred tax liability to reflect tax amortization of goodwill for which
no book amortization has occurred. Due to the uncertainty regarding the timing and extent of our
future profitability, we have recorded a valuation allowance to offset potential income tax
benefits associated with our operating losses. As a result, we did not record any income tax
benefit in 2006 or 2005. There can be no assurance that deferred tax assets subject to the
valuation allowance will ever be realized.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

At January 31, 2006, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $116.3 million
compared to $102.4 million at April 30, 2005. Restricted securities, used to secure future interest
payments on our convertible debt were $7.4 million at January 31, 2006
compared to $9.1 million at April 30, 2005. At January 31, 2006, total short and long term
debt was $248.1 million, compared to $267.8 million at April 30, 2005.

33

Table of Contents   

Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $5.4 million in the nine months ended
January 31, 2006, compared to a use of $24.8 million of cash in the nine months ended January 31,
2005. Cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended January 31, 2006 was
primarily a result of operating losses adjusted for non-cash related items. Working capital uses of
cash in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 included cash inflows of $17.2 million offset by
outflows of $22.3 million. Cash inflows were primarily due to a $6.9 million increase in accounts
payable, a $3.9 million increase in other accrued liabilities, a $2.7 million increase in accrued
compensation and a $1.9 million increase in deferred revenue. The increase in deferred revenue was
the result of increased sales through distributor channels. The increases in accrued compensation
and accounts payable were related to the timing of those payments. Cash outflows were due to a
$13.8 million increase in inventory, a $5.5 million increase in accounts receivable, and a $2.9
million increase in other assets. The use of cash in operating activities in the nine months ended
January 31, 2005 was primarily a result of operating losses of $76.3 million, and working capital
uses of cash of $16.1 million, partially offset by $67.5 million of non-cash items.

Net cash provided by investing activities totaled $6.5 million in the nine months ended
January 31, 2006 compared to a use of $20.1 million of cash in the nine months ended January 31,
2005. Cash invested in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 was primarily related equipment
purchases to support production expansion in Texas and Malaysia, the acquisition of InterSAN Inc.,
and the purchase of the assets of Big Bear Networks. Cash provided by investing activities in the
nine months ended January 31, 2006 was primarily related to cash received from the sale of a
minority equity investment and sales of short-term investments. Cash invested during the nine
months ended January 31, 2005 was primarily related to equipment purchases to support production
expansion in Texas and Malaysia, the acquisition of Data Transit Corp. and the purchase of
short-term investments. Cash provided by investing activities in the nine months ended January 31,
2005 primarily related to the maturity of restricted investments used to pay the interest payments
on our convertible debt.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $12.9 million in the nine months ended January
31, 2006 compared to $758,000 in the nine months ended January 31, 2005. Cash provided by financing
activities in nine months ended January 31, 2006 primarily included proceeds of borrowings from a
financial institution of $9.9 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options and the
employee stock purchase plan of $3.6 million. Cash provided by financing activities in the nine
months ended January 31, 2005 consisted of proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $1.3
million and payments received from stockholder notes receivable of $467,000 net of the repayment of
$1.0 million of convertible notes issued in conjunction with our acquisition of the assets of Data
Transit.

On April 29, 2005, we entered into a letter of credit reimbursement agreement with Silicon
Valley Bank for a period of one year. Under the terms of the agreement, Silicon Valley Bank is
providing a $7 million letter of credit facility to house existing letters of credit issued by
Silicon Valley Bank and any other letters of credit that may be required by the Company. Costs
related to the credit facility consisted of a loan fee of 0.50% of the credit facility amount, or
$35,000, plus the bank s out of pocket expenses associated with the credit facility. The credit
facility is unsecured with a negative pledge on all of our assets, including our intellectual
property. The agreement requires us to maintain a minimum unrestricted cash and cash equivalents
balance, net of any outstanding debt and letters of credit exposure, of $40 million at all times.
On October 20, 2005, we amended our agreement with Silicon Valley Bank to increase the letter of
credit facility to $20 million. Costs related to the amended credit facility amendment consisted
of a loan fee of 0.50% of the credit facility amount, or $100,000, plus the bank s out of pocket
expenses. This letter of credit facility will be available to us through October 26, 2006. At
January 31, 2006 outstanding letters of credit secured by this facility totaled $12.8 million.

In December 2005, we entered into a note and security agreement with a financial institution.
Under this agreement, we borrowed $9.9 million at an interest rate of 5.9% per annum. The note is
payable in 60 equal monthly installments beginning in January 2006 and is secured by certain
property and equipment and by a standby letter of credit issued by our bank under our letter of
credit arrangement. At January 31, 2006, the remaining principal balance of this note was $9.8
million.

We believe that our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments,
together with the cash expected to be generated from our future operations, will be sufficient to
meet our cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months.
We may however require additional financing to fund our operations in the future. The significant
contraction in the capital markets, particularly in the technology sector, may make it difficult
for us to raise additional capital if and when it is required, especially if we experience
disappointing operating results. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or is not
available on favorable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be
adversely affected.

34

Table of Contents   

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments 

At January 31, 2006, we had contractual obligations of $318.5 million as shown in the
following table (in thousands):

Short-term debt consists of a convertible promissory note in the principal amount of $843,000
due in fiscal 2006, related to our fiscal 2005 acquisition of I-TECH, $335,000 of current debt
obligations assumed as part of the acquisition of InterSAN, Inc, and $1.6 million representing the
current portion of a note and security agreement with a financial institution.

Long-term debt consists of the long-term portion of a note and security agreement with a
financial institution.

Convertible debt consists of two series of convertible subordinated notes in the aggregate
principal amount of $100.3 million due October 15, 2008, and $150.0 million due October 15, 2010.
The two series of notes are convertible by the holders of the notes at any time prior to maturity
into shares of Finisar common stock at specified conversion prices. The two series of notes are
redeemable by us, in whole or in part, after October 15, 2004 and October 15, 2007, respectively.
Holders of the notes due in 2010 have the right to require us to repurchase some or all of their
notes on October 15, 2007. We may choose to pay the repurchase price in cash, shares of Finisar
common stock, or a combination thereof. Annual interest payments on the convertible subordinated
notes are approximately $9.0 million annually.

Lease commitment under sale-leaseback agreement includes principal amount of $11.4 million
related to the sale-leaseback agreement for our corporate office building, which we entered into in
the fourth quarter of 2005.

Operating lease obligations consist primarily of base rents for facilities we occupy at
various locations.

Purchase obligations consist of standby repurchase obligations and are related to materials
purchased and held by subcontractors on our behalf to fulfill the subcontractors  purchase order
obligations at their facilities. Our repurchase obligations of $1.4 million have been expensed and
recorded on the balance sheet as non-cancelable purchase obligations as of January 31, 2006.

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements 

At January 31, 2006 and April 30, 2005, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements or
relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often
referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which are typically established for
the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited
purposes.

35

Table of Contents   

Factors That Could Affect Our Future Performance 

OUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE IS SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF RISKS. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS
ACTUALLY OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED AND THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD
DECLINE. YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT, INCLUDING OUR
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES.

We have incurred significant net losses, our future revenues are inherently unpredictable,
our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period, and if we fail to meet the
expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline significantly  

We incurred net losses of $114.1 million, $113.8 million and $619.8 million in our fiscal
years ended April 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and a net loss of $26.6 million in the
nine months ended January 31, 2006. Although we recorded net income of $8.3 million in the three
months ended January 31, 2006, our operating results for future periods are subject to numerous
uncertainties, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain profitability.

Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated substantially in the past and are
likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are
outside of our control. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of
operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance.
Some of the factors that could cause our quarterly or annual operating results to fluctuate include
market acceptance of our products, market demand for the products manufactured by our customers,
the introduction of new products and manufacturing processes, manufacturing yields, competitive
pressures and customer retention.

We may experience a delay in generating or recognizing revenues for a number of reasons.
Orders at the beginning of each quarter typically represent a small percentage of expected revenues
for that quarter and are generally cancelable at any time. Accordingly, we depend on obtaining
orders during each quarter for shipment in that quarter to achieve our revenue objectives. Failure
to ship these products by the end of a quarter may adversely affect our operating results.
Furthermore, our customer agreements typically provide that the customer may delay scheduled
delivery dates and cancel orders within specified timeframes without significant penalty. Because
we base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses
are fixed in the short term, any delay in generating or recognizing forecasted revenues could
significantly harm our business. It is likely that in some future quarters our operating results
will again decrease from the previous quarter or fall below the expectations of securities analysts
and investors. In this event, it is likely that the trading price of our common stock would
significantly decline.

We may have insufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, including payments
due on our subordinated convertible notes  

We will be required to generate cash sufficient to conduct our business operations and pay our
indebtedness and other liabilities, including all amounts due on our outstanding 2 1/2% and 5 1/4%
convertible subordinated notes due 2010 and 2008, respectively. The aggregate outstanding
principal amount of these notes was $250.3 million at January 31, 2006. Holders of the notes due in
2010 have the right to require us to repurchase some or all of their notes on October 15, 2007. We
may choose to pay the repurchase price in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination
thereof. We may not be able to cover our anticipated debt service obligations from our cash flow.
This may materially hinder our ability to make payments on the notes. Our ability to meet our
future debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to
financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our
control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make required principal and
interest payments on the notes when due.

We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the future, and failure to do so may harm
our business  

We believe that our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments
will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least
the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional financing to fund our operations in the
future or to repay the principal of our outstanding 2 1/2% and 5 1/4% convertible subordinated
notes due 2010 and 2008, respectively. Due to the unpredictable nature of the capital markets,
particularly in the technology sector, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise
additional capital if and when it is required, especially if we experience disappointing operating
results. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or is not available on favorable
terms, we could be required to significantly reduce or restructure our business operations.

36

Table of Contents   

Failure to accurately forecast our revenues could result in additional charges for obsolete
or excess inventories or non-cancelable purchase commitments  

We base many of our operating decisions, and enter into purchase commitments, on the basis of
anticipated revenue trends which are highly unpredictable. Some of our purchase commitments are not
cancelable, and in some cases we are required to recognize a charge representing the amount of
material or capital equipment purchased or ordered which exceeds our actual requirements. In the
past, we have sometimes experienced significant growth followed by a significant decrease in
customer demand such as occurred in fiscal 2001, when revenues increased by 181% followed by a
decrease of 22% in fiscal 2002. Based on projected revenue trends during these periods, we acquired
inventories and entered into purchase commitments in order to meet anticipated increases in demand
for our products which did not materialize. As a result, we recorded significant charges for
obsolete and excess inventories and non-cancelable purchase commitments which contributed to
substantial operating losses in fiscal 2002. Should revenue in future periods again fall
substantially below our expectations, or should we fail again to accurately forecast changes in
demand mix, we could be required to record additional charges for obsolete or excess inventories or
non-cancelable purchase commitments.

If we encounter yield problems or other delays in the production or delivery of our
internally-manufactured components, we may lose sales and damage our customer relationships  

In order to reduce our manufacturing costs, we have acquired a number of companies, and
business units of other companies, that manufacture optical components incorporated in our optical
subsystem products. For example, we now manufacture most of the lasers used in our optical
subsystems at wafer fabrication facilities located in Allen, Texas and Fremont, California. As a
result of this increased vertical integration, we have become increasingly dependent on our
internally-produced components. The manufacture of these components, including the fabrication of
wafers, involves highly complex processes. Minute levels of contaminants in the manufacturing
environment, difficulties in the fabrication process or other factors can cause a substantial
portion of the components on a wafer to be nonfunctional. These problems may be difficult to
detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and often are time-consuming and expensive to
correct. We have recently experienced problems achieving acceptable yields at our wafer
fabrication facilities, resulting in delays in the delivery of components to our subsystem assembly
facilities. Poor manufacturing yields over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect our
ability to deliver our subsystem products to our customers and could also affect our sale of
components to customers in the merchant market. Such delays could harm our relationships with
customers and have an adverse effect on our business.

Past and future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute
stockholder value and harm our operating results  

Since October 2000, we have completed the acquisition of eight privately-held companies,
including our acquisitions of I-TECH CORP. in April 2005 and InterSAN, Inc. in May 2005, and
certain businesses and assets from six other companies, including our acquisition of certain assets
related to the transceiver and transponder business of Infineon Technologies AG in January 2005.
We continue to review opportunities to acquire other businesses, product lines or technologies that
would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical
capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities, and we from time to time make
proposals and offers, and take other steps, to acquire businesses, products and technologies.
Several of our past acquisitions have been material, and acquisitions that we may complete in the
future may be material. In 10 of our 14 acquisitions, we issued stock as all or a portion of the
consideration. The issuance of stock in these and any future transactions has or would dilute
stockholders  percentage ownership.

Other risks associated with acquiring the operations of other companies include:

problems assimilating the purchased operations, technologies or products; 

unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; 

diversion of management s attention from our core business; 

adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; 

risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and 

potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations. 

Several of our past acquisitions have not been successful. During fiscal 2003, we sold some
of the assets acquired in two prior acquisitions, discontinued a product line and closed one of our
acquired facilities. As a result of these activities, we incurred

37

Table of Contents   

significant restructuring charges and charges for the write-down of assets associated with
those acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming future problems
encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions, and our inability to do so could
significantly harm our business. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated
with any of our acquisitions diminish in the future, we may be required to record additional write
downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such acquisitions, which would
adversely affect our operating results.

We may lose sales if our suppliers fail to meet our needs  

We currently purchase several key components used in the manufacture of our products from
single or limited sources. We depend on these current and future sources to meet our production
needs. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the products supplied to us over which we have limited
control. We have encountered shortages and delays in obtaining components in the past and expect to
encounter shortages and delays in the future. If we cannot supply products due to a lack of
components, or are unable to redesign products with other components in a timely manner, our
business will be significantly harmed. We generally have no long-term contracts for any of our
components. As a result, a supplier can discontinue supplying components to us without penalty. If
a supplier discontinued supplying a component, our business may be harmed by the resulting product
manufacturing and delivery delays. We are also subject to potential delays in the development by
our suppliers of key components which may affect our ability to introduce new products.

We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our component
requirements. Lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly and depend
on factors such as specific supplier requirements, contract terms and current market demand for
particular components. If we overestimate our component requirements, we may have excess inventory,
which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our component requirements, we may have
inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to
our customers. Any of these occurrences would significantly harm our business.

We are dependent on widespread market acceptance of two product families, and our revenues
will decline if the market does not continue to accept either of these product families  

We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from sales of our optical subsystems and
components and network performance test and monitoring systems. We expect that revenue from these
products will continue to account for substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, widespread acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. If the
market does not continue to accept either our optical subsystems and components or our network
performance test and monitoring systems, our revenues will decline significantly. Factors that may
affect the market acceptance of our products include the continued growth of the markets for LANs,
SANs, and MANs and, in particular, Gigabit Ethernet and Fibre Channel-based technologies, as well
as the performance, price and total cost of ownership of our products and the availability,
functionality and price of competing products and technologies.

Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, in order to achieve widespread
market acceptance, we must differentiate ourselves from our competition through product offerings
and brand name recognition. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in making this
differentiation or achieving widespread acceptance of our products. Failure of our existing or
future products to maintain and achieve widespread levels of market acceptance will significantly
impair our revenue growth.

We depend on large purchases from a few significant customers, and any loss, cancellation,
reduction or delay in purchases by these customers could harm our business  

A small number of customers have consistently accounted for a significant portion of our
revenues. For example, sales to our top five customers represented 42.5% and 45.2% of our revenues
in the three months and nine months ended January 31, 2006, respectively. Our success will depend
on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with significant customers. Although
we are attempting to expand our customer base, we expect that significant customer concentration
will continue for the foreseeable future.

The markets in which we sell our optical subsystems and components products are dominated by a
relatively small number of systems manufacturers, thereby limiting the number of our potential
customers. Our dependence on large orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our
relationship with each customer critically important to our business. We cannot assure you that we
will be able to retain our largest customers, that we will be able to attract additional customers
or that our customers will be successful in selling their products that incorporate our products.
We have in the past experienced delays and reductions in orders from some of our major customers.
In addition, our customers have in the past sought price concessions from us, and we expect that
they will continue to do so in the future. Cost reduction measures that we have implemented during
the past several quarters, and additional action we may take to reduce costs, may adversely affect
our ability to introduce new and improved products which may, in turn, adversely affect our
relationships with some of our key customers. Further, some of our customers may in the future
shift their

38

Table of Contents   

purchases of products from us to our competitors or to joint ventures between these customers
and our competitors. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any reduction or delay in
sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional
customers or future price concessions that we may make could significantly harm our business.

Because we do not have long-term contracts with our customers, our customers may cease
purchasing our products at any time if we fail to meet our customers  needs  

Typically, we do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements
with our customers do not provide any assurance of future sales. Accordingly:

our customers can stop purchasing our products at any time without penalty; 

our customers are free to purchase products from our competitors; and 

our customers are not required to make minimum purchases. 

Sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with extremely short
lead times. If we are unable to fulfill these orders in a timely manner, it is likely that we will
lose sales and customers.

Our market is subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively we must
continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance  

The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new
product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards with
respect to the protocols used in data communications networks. We expect that new technologies will
emerge as competition and the need for higher and more cost-effective bandwidth increases. Our
future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of
new and enhanced products that address these changes as well as current and potential customer
requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or
cancel orders for existing products. In addition, a slowdown in demand for existing products ahead
of a new product introduction could result in a write-down in the value of inventory on hand
related to existing products. We have in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing
products and delays in new product development and such delays may occur in the future. To the
extent customers defer or cancel orders for existing products due to a slowdown in demand or in the
expectation of a new product release or if there is any delay in development or introduction of our
new products or enhancements of our products, our operating results would suffer. We also may not
be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and
enhancements, or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may
result from numerous factors, including:

changing product specifications and customer requirements; 

unanticipated engineering complexities; 

expense reduction measures we have implemented, and others we may implement, to
conserve our cash and attempt to maintain and increase our profitability; 

difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; 

difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; and 

changing market or competitive product requirements. 

The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process
requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as
well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot assure you that we
will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products
successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, we cannot assure you that our new products
will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements
by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to
technological change would significantly harm our business.

39

Table of Contents   

Continued competition in our markets may lead to a reduction in our prices, revenues and
market share  

The markets for optical subsystems and components and network performance test and monitoring
systems for use in LANs, SANs and MANs are highly competitive. Our current competitors include a
number of domestic and international companies, many of which have substantially greater financial,
technical, marketing and distribution resources and brand name recognition than we have. Other
companies, including some of our customers, may enter the market for optical subsystems and network
test and monitoring systems. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or
future competitors. Increased competition could result in significant price erosion, reduced
revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which would significantly harm our business.
For optical subsystems, we compete primarily with JDS Uniphase Corporation, Avago Technologies,
Pte. and a number of smaller vendors. For network test and monitoring systems, we compete
primarily with LeCroy Corporation and Agilent Technologies, Inc. Our competitors continue to
introduce improved products with lower prices, and we will have to do the same to remain
competitive. In addition, some of our current and potential customers may attempt to integrate
their operations by producing their own optical components and subsystems and network test and
monitoring systems or acquiring one of our competitors, thereby eliminating the need to purchase
our products. Furthermore, larger companies in other related industries, such as the
telecommunications industry, may develop or acquire technologies and apply their significant
resources, including their distribution channels and brand name recognition, to capture significant
market share in the industry segments in which we participate.

Decreases in average selling prices of our products may reduce gross margins  

The market for optical subsystems is characterized by declining average selling prices
resulting from factors such as increased competition, overcapacity, the introduction of new
products and increased unit volumes as manufacturers continue to deploy network and storage
systems. We have in the past experienced, and in the future may experience, substantial
period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to declining average selling prices. We
anticipate that average selling prices will decrease in the future in response to product
introductions by competitors or us, or by other factors, including price pressures from significant
customers. Therefore, in order to achieve and sustain profitable operations, we must continue to
develop and introduce on a timely basis new products that incorporate features that can be sold at
higher average selling prices. Failure to do so could cause our revenues and gross margins to
decline, which would result in additional operating losses and significantly harm our business.

We may be unable to reduce the cost of our products sufficiently to enable us to compete with
others. Our cost reduction efforts may not allow us to keep pace with competitive pricing pressures
and could adversely affect our margins. In order to remain competitive, we must continually reduce
the cost of manufacturing our products through design and engineering changes. We may not be
successful in redesigning our products or delivering our products to market in a timely manner. We
cannot assure you that any redesign will result in sufficient cost reductions to allow us to reduce
the price of our products to remain competitive or improve our gross margins.

Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in gross margins  

Our gross profit margins vary among our product families, and are generally higher on our
network test and monitoring systems than on our optical subsystems and components. Our optical
products sold for longer distance MAN and telecom applications typically have higher gross margins
than our products for shorter distance LAN or SAN applications. Our gross margins are generally
lower for newly introduced products and improve as unit volumes increase. Our overall gross margins
have fluctuated from period to period as a result of shifts in product mix, the introduction of new
products, decreases in average selling prices for older products and our ability to reduce product
costs, and these fluctuations are expected to continue in the future.

Our customers often evaluate our products for long and variable periods, which causes the
timing of our revenues and results of operations to be unpredictable  

The period of time between our initial contact with a customer and the receipt of an actual
purchase order may span a year or more. During this time, customers may perform, or require us to
perform, extensive and lengthy evaluation and testing of our products before purchasing and using
them in their equipment. Our customers do not typically share information on the duration or
magnitude of these qualification procedures. The length of these qualification processes also may
vary substantially by product and customer, and, thus, cause our results of operations to be
unpredictable. While our potential customers are qualifying our products and before they place an
order with us, we may incur substantial research and development and sales and marketing expenses
and expend significant management effort. Even after incurring such costs we ultimately may not
sell any products to such potential customers. In addition, these qualification processes often
make it difficult to obtain new customers, as customers are reluctant to expend the resources
necessary to qualify a new supplier if they have one or more existing qualified sources. Once our
products have been qualified, the agreements that we enter into with our customers typically
contain no minimum purchase commitments. Failure of our customers to incorporate our products into
their systems would significantly harm our business.

40

Table of Contents   

We depend on facilities located outside of the United States to manufacture a substantial
portion of our products, which subjects us to additional risks  

In addition to our principal manufacturing facility in Malaysia, we operate smaller facilities
in China and Singapore and also rely on two contract manufacturers located outside of the United
States. Each of these facilities and manufacturers subjects us to additional risks associated with
international manufacturing, including:

unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; 

legal uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers; 

inadequate protection of intellectual property in some countries; 

greater incidence of shipping delays; 

greater difficulty in overseeing manufacturing operations; 

greater difficulty in hiring talent needed to oversee manufacturing operations; 

potential political and economic instability; and 

the outbreak of infectious diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or
SARS, which could result in travel restrictions or the closure of our facilities or the
facilities of our customers and suppliers. 

Any of these factors could significantly impair our ability to source our contract
manufacturing requirements internationally.

Our future operating results may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to foreign
exchange risks.  

We are exposed to foreign exchange risks. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect both our
revenues and our costs and expenses and significantly affect our operating results. Prices for our
products are currently denominated in U.S. dollars for sales to our customers throughout the world.
If there is a significant devaluation of the currency in a specific country relative to the
dollar, the prices of our products will increase relative to that country s currency, our products
may be less competitive in that country and our revenues may be adversely affected.

Although we price our products in U.S. dollars, portions of both our cost of revenues and
operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, principally the Malaysian ringit and the
Chinese yuan. As a result, we bear the risk that the rate of inflation in one or more countries
will exceed the rate of the devaluation of that country s currency in relation to the U.S. dollar,
which would increase our costs as expressed in U.S. dollars. On July 21, 2005, the People s Bank
of China announced that the yuan will no longer be pegged to the U.S. dollar but will be allowed to
float in a band (and, to a limited extent, increase in value) against a basket of foreign
currencies. This development increases the risk that Chinese-sourced materials and labor could
become more expensive for us. To date, we have not engaged in currency hedging transactions to
decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.

Our business and future operating results are subject to a wide range of uncertainties arising out
of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and ongoing military action in the Middle East  

Like other U.S. companies, our business and operating results are subject to uncertainties
arising out of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks on the United States and ongoing military
action in the Middle East, including the economic consequences of the war in Iraq or additional
terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the impact of heightened security
concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. In particular, due to these
uncertainties we are subject to:

increased risks related to the operations of our manufacturing facilities in
Malaysia; 

greater risks of disruption in the operations of our Asian contract manufacturers and
more frequent instances of shipping delays; and 

the risk that future tightening of immigration controls may adversely affect the
residence status of non-U.S. engineers and other key technical employees in our U.S.
facilities or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in such facilities. 

41

Table of Contents   

We have made and may continue to make strategic investments which may not be successful, may
result in the loss of all or part of our invested capital and may adversely affect our operating
results  

Through January 2006, we recorded minority equity investments in early-stage technology
companies, totaling $52.4 million. Our investments in these early stage companies were primarily
motivated by our desire to gain early access to new technology. We intend to review additional
opportunities to make strategic equity investments in pre-public companies where we believe such
investments will provide us with opportunities to gain access to important technologies or
otherwise enhance important commercial relationships. We have little or no influence over the
early-stage companies in which we have made or may make these strategic, minority equity
investments. Each of these investments in pre-public companies involves a high degree of risk. We
may not be successful in achieving the financial, technological or commercial advantage upon which
any given investment is premised, and failure by the early-stage company to achieve its own
business objectives or to raise capital needed on acceptable economic terms could result in a loss
of all or part of our invested capital. In fiscal 2003, we wrote off $12.0 million in two
investments which became impaired. In fiscal 2004, we wrote off $1.6 million in two additional
investments, and in fiscal 2005, we wrote off $10.0 million in another investment. During the
first quarter of fiscal 2006 we reclassified $4.2 million of an investment associated with the
Infineon acquisition to goodwill as the investment was deemed to have no value. In addition,
during the three and nine months ended January 31, 2006, we recognized $476,000 and $1.5 million,
respectively, of losses related to another investment accounted for under the equity method. We
may be required to write off all or a portion of the $15.7 million in such investments remaining on
our balance sheet as of January 31, 2006 in future periods and to recognize additional losses
related to certain of our investments.

We are subject to pending legal proceedings  

A securities class action lawsuit was filed on November 30, 2001 in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York, purportedly on behalf of all persons who purchased our
common stock from November 17, 1999 through December 6, 2000. The complaint named as defendants
Finisar, Jerry S. Rawls, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Frank H. Levinson, our former
Chairman of the Board and Chief Technical Officer, Stephen K. Workman, our Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer, and an investment banking firm that served as an underwriter for its
initial public offering in November 1999 and a secondary offering in April 2000. The complaint, as
subsequently amended, alleges violations of Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 and
Sections 10(b) and 20(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. No specific damages are claimed.
Similar allegations have been made in lawsuits relating to more than 300 other initial public
offerings conducted in 1999 and 2000, which were consolidated for pretrial purposes. In October
2002, all claims against the individual defendants were dismissed without prejudice. On February
19, 2003, the Court denied our motion to dismiss the complaint. In July 2004, we and the
individual defendants accepted a settlement proposal made to all of the issuer defendants. Under
the terms of the settlement, the plaintiffs will dismiss and release all claims against
participating defendants in exchange for a contingent payment guaranty by the insurance companies
collectively responsible for insuring the issuers in all related cases, and the assignment or
surrender to the plaintiffs of certain claims the issuer defendants may have against the
underwriters. Under the guaranty, the insurers will be required to pay the amount, if any, by
which $1 billion exceeds the aggregate amount ultimately collected by the plaintiffs from the
underwriter defendants in all the cases. If the plaintiffs fail to recover $1 billion and payment
is required under the guaranty, we would be responsible to pay its pro rata portion of the
shortfall, up to the amount of the self-insured retention under its insurance policy, which may be
up to $2 million. The timing and amount of payments that we could be required to make under the
proposed settlement will depend on several factors, principally the timing and amount of any
payment that the insurers may be required to make pursuant to the $1 billion guaranty. The Court
held hearings on April 13, 2005 and September 6, 2005 to determine the form, substance and program
of class notice and the scheduling of a fairness hearing for final approval of the settlement. The
court set a hearing for April 24, 2006 to consider final approval of the settlement. If the
settlement is not approved by the Court, the Company intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously.
Because of the inherent uncertainty of litigation, however, the Company cannot predict its outcome.
If, as a result of this dispute, the Company is required to pay significant monetary damages, its
business would be substantially harmed.

We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which
could lead to errors in our financial statements  

As discussed in Item 4. Controls and Procedures, we identified several material weaknesses in
our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of April 30, 2005. Although steps
have been taken and are continuing to be taken to remediate these deficiencies, there can be no
assurance that these remediation steps will be successful or that, as a result of our ongoing
evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, we will not identify additional
material weaknesses. Although management determined that the material weaknesses did not affect the
financial results reported in our consolidated financial statements as of, and for the year ended,
April 30, 2005, there can be no assurance that unremediated weaknesses in our internal control over
financial reporting will not result in errors that are material to the financial results reported
in our consolidated financial statements for future periods.

42

Table of Contents   

Because of competition for technical personnel, we may not be able to recruit or retain
necessary personnel  

We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain
highly skilled managerial, technical, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel. In
particular, we may need to increase the number of technical staff members with experience in
high-speed networking applications as we further develop our product lines. Competition for these
highly skilled employees in our industry is intense. Our failure to attract and retain these
qualified employees could significantly harm our business. The loss of the services of any of our
qualified employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays
in hiring required personnel could hinder the development and introduction of and negatively impact
our ability to sell our products. In addition, employees may leave our company and subsequently
compete against us. Moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with
competitors frequently claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We
have been subject to claims of this type and may be subject to such claims in the future as we seek
to hire qualified personnel. Some of these claims may result in material litigation. We could incur
substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits.

Our products may contain defects that may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our
attention from product development efforts and result in a loss of customers  

Our products are complex and defects may be found from time to time. Networking products
frequently contain undetected software or hardware defects when first introduced or as new versions
are released. In addition, our products are often embedded in or deployed in conjunction with our
customers  products which incorporate a variety of components produced by third parties. As a
result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These
problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the
attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant
customer relation problems or loss of customers, all of which would harm our business.

Our failure to protect our intellectual property may significantly harm our business  

Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely
on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality
agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We license certain of our proprietary
technology, including our digital diagnostics technology, to customers who include current and
potential competitors, and we rely largely on provisions of our licensing agreements to protect our
intellectual property rights in this technology. Although a number of patents have been issued to
us, we have obtained a number of other patents as a result of our acquisitions, and we have filed
applications for additional patents, we cannot assure you that any patents will issue as a result
of pending patent applications or that our issued patents will be upheld. Any infringement of our
proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to adequately
protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products,
potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Despite our
efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret
laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect
our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Attempts may be made
to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard
as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or
deter others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our
products is difficult and expensive. We are currently engaged in pending litigation to enforce
certain of our patents, and additional litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our
intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of
others. In connection with the pending litigation, substantial management time has been, and will
continue to be, expended. In addition, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur,
substantial legal expenses in connection with these pending lawsuits. These costs and this
diversion of resources could significantly harm our business.

Claims that we infringe third-party intellectual property rights could result in significant
expenses or restrictions on our ability to sell our products  

The networking industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and
frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We have been involved in the past
as a defendant in patent infringement lawsuits. From time to time, other parties may assert patent,
copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and in various
jurisdictions that are important to our business. Any claims asserting that our products infringe
or may infringe proprietary rights of third parties, if determined adversely to us, could
significantly harm our business. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result
in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, cause product
shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could
significantly harm our business. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available
on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, our agreements with our customers typically
require us to indemnify our customers from any expense or liability resulting from claimed
infringement of third party intellectual property rights. In the event a claim against us was
successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms or
license a substitute technology or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our business would
be significantly harmed.

43

Table of Contents   

Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside our
control  

Our business and operating results are vulnerable to events outside of our control, such as
earthquakes, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures and uncertainties arising out of
terrorist attacks in the United States and overseas. Our corporate headquarters and a portion of
our manufacturing operations are located in California. California in particular has been
vulnerable to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fires and floods, and other risks which at
times have disrupted the local economy and posed physical risks to our property. We are also
dependent on communications links with our overseas manufacturing locations and would be
significantly harmed if these links were interrupted for any significant length of time. We
presently do not have adequate redundant, multiple site capacity if any of these events were to
occur, nor can we be certain that the insurance we maintain against these events would be adequate.

Our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them own a large percentage
of our voting stock, resulting in a substantial concentration of control and could have the effect
of delaying or preventing a change in our control  

As of January 31, 2006, our executive officers and directors and certain entities affiliated
with them beneficially owned approximately 31.6 million shares of our common stock, or
approximately 10.6% of the outstanding shares. These stockholders, acting together, may be able to
substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the
election or removal of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination
transactions. In addition, certain funds managed by VantagePoint Venture Partners, of which David
C. Fries, a director of the Company, is a managing director hold approximately 11.4% of our
outstanding common stock. Accordingly, if VantagePoint Venture Partners continues to hold its
shares, it may also be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, and
VantagePoint Venture Partners, our executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them,
voting together, may be able to effectively control the outcome of such matters. This concentration
of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or otherwise
discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have
an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from
realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock.

The conversion of our outstanding convertible subordinated notes would result in substantial
dilution to our current stockholders  

We currently have outstanding 5 1/4% convertible subordinated notes due 2008 in the principal
amount of $100.3 million and 2 1/2% convertible subordinated notes due 2010 in the principal amount
of $150.0 million. The 5 1/4% notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, at any time on or
prior to maturity into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $5.52 per share. The 2
1/2% notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, at any time on or prior to maturity into
shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $3.705 per share. An aggregate of 58,647,060
shares of common stock would be issued upon the conversion of all outstanding convertible
subordinated notes at these exchange rates, which would significantly dilute the voting power and
ownership percentage of our existing stockholders. Holders of the notes due in 2010 have the right
to require us to repurchase some or all of their notes on October 15, 2007. We may choose to pay
the repurchase price in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof. Our right to
repurchase the notes, in whole or in part, with shares of our common stock is subject to the
registration of the shares of our common stock to be issued upon repurchase under the Securities
Act, if required, and registration with or approval of any state or federal governmental authority
if such registration or approval is required before such shares may be issued. We have previously
entered into privately negotiated transactions with certain holders of our convertible subordinated
notes for the repurchase of notes in exchange for a greater number of shares of our common stock
than would have been issued had the principal amount of the notes been converted at the original
conversion rate specified in the notes, thus resulting in more dilution. Although we do not
currently have any plans to enter into similar transactions in the future, if we were to do so
there would be additional dilution to the voting power and percentage ownership of our existing
stockholders.

Delaware law, our charter documents and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that
could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if such a transaction would be beneficial
to our stockholders  

Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of
Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may
consider favorable. These include provisions:

authorizing the board of directors to issue additional preferred stock; 

prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; 

limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; 

prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; 

44

Table of Contents   

creating a classified board of directors pursuant to which our directors are elected for staggered three-year terms; 

permitting the board of directors to increase the size of the board and to fill vacancies; 

requiring a super-majority vote of our stockholders to amend our bylaws and certain
provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and 

establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of
directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder
meetings. 

We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which
limit the right of a corporation to engage in a business combination with a holder of 15% or more
of the corporation s outstanding voting securities, or certain affiliated persons.

In addition, in September 2002, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan under
which our stockholders received one share purchase right for each share of our common stock held by
them. Subject to certain exceptions, the rights become exercisable when a person or group (other
than certain exempt persons) acquires, or announces its intention to commence a tender or exchange
offer upon completion of which such person or group would acquire, 20% or more of our common stock
without prior board approval. Should such an event occur, then, unless the rights are redeemed or
have expired, our stockholders, other than the acquirer, will be entitled to purchase shares of our
common stock at a 50% discount from its then-Current Market Price (as defined) or, in the case of
certain business combinations, purchase the common stock of the acquirer at a 50% discount.

Although we believe that these charter and bylaw provisions, provisions of Delaware law and
our stockholder rights plan provide an opportunity for the board to assure that our stockholders
realize full value for their investment, they could have the effect of delaying or preventing a
change of control, even under circumstances that some stockholders may consider beneficial.

Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile  

The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be subject to
large fluctuations. Our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and
factors, including:

trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate; 

changes in the market price of the products we sell; 

changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; 

acquisitions and financings; 

quarterly variations in our operating results; 

the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors in our
common stock may deem comparable; and 

purchases or sales of blocks of our common stock. 

Part of this volatility is attributable to the current state of the stock market, in which
wide price swings are common. This volatility may adversely affect the prices of our common stock
regardless of our operating performance.

45

Table of Contents   

Item 3.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment
portfolio. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while
maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. We place our investments with high credit
issuers in short-term securities with maturities ranging from overnight up to 36 months or have
characteristics of such short-term investments. The average maturity of the portfolio will not
exceed 18 months. The portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale
markets to ensure portfolio liquidity. We have no investments denominated in foreign country
currencies and therefore our investments are not subject to foreign exchange risk.

We invest in equity instruments of privately held companies for business and strategic
purposes. These investments are included in other long-term assets and are accounted for under the
cost method when our ownership interest is less than 20% and we do not have the ability to exercise
significant influence. For entities in which we hold greater than a 20% ownership interest, or
where we have the ability to exercise significant influence, we use the equity method. We recorded
losses of $476,000 and $1.5 million in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2006 and
$430,000 and $1.2 million in the three and nine months ended January 31, 2005 for investments
accounted for under the equity method. For these non-quoted investments, our policy is to regularly
review the assumptions underlying the operating performance and cash flow forecasts in assessing
the carrying values. We identify and record impairment losses when events and circumstances
indicate that such assets are impaired. If our investment in a privately-held company becomes
marketable equity securities upon the company s completion of an initial public offering or its
acquisition by another company, our investment would be subject to significant fluctuations in fair
market value due to the volatility of the stock market. There has been no material change in our
interest rate exposure since April 30, 2005.

Item 4.    Controls and Procedures.  

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

As disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005 (the
 2005 Form 10-K ), our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal
control over financial reporting as of April 30, 2005 as required by Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Based on management s assessment of our internal control over
financial reporting, we identified four control deficiencies that we concluded represented material
weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of April 30, 2005. As described in
more detail in the 2005 Form 10-K, these material weaknesses consisted of:

a material weakness in our financial reporting processes arising from a shortage of,
and turnover in, qualified financial reporting personnel with sufficient skills and
experience to apply generally accepted accounting principles to our transactions, to
provide for timely review of account reconciliations, and to prepare financial
statements that comply with U.S. generally-accepted accounting principles; 

a material weakness relating to our accounting for income and sales/use taxes
including: (a) ineffective controls over the application of U.S. generally-accepted
accounting principles pertaining to income taxes; (b) ineffective controls over the
monitoring and accounting for income tax matters arising from business combinations and
other complex and non-routine business transactions; (c) insufficient personnel with
adequate technical skills relative to accounting for and disclosure of income taxes; and
(d) inadequate accounting policies and procedures that do not provide for effective
supervisory review of income and sales/use tax accounting amounts and analyses and
related recordkeeping and disclosure activities; 

a material weakness related to the effectiveness of our inventory controls, including
ineffective controls to physically verify the existence of inventory on consignment at
customer locations and inventory acquired in recent business acquisitions; and 

a material weakness in our controls to monitor our Network Test and Monitoring
segment sales agreements which have multiple elements such that revenue received under
these agreements is properly allocated to each element and recognized in the proper
period. 

We have been, and intend to continue, planning and implementing increases in staffing levels
and changes in our policies, processes and procedures to address these weaknesses and improve our
internal control over financial reporting. In the 2005 Form 10-K, we identified various
remediation efforts that we had undertaken and that we expect to continue throughout fiscal 2006.
During the first three quarters of fiscal 2006, management made substantial progress in the
execution of the remediation plan identified in the 2005 Form 10-K. Among other things, we took the
following actions:

In the first quarter, we hired additional personnel, including a Director of Internal
Audit and other qualified
personnel, to strengthen our accounting and financial reporting organizations; 

46

Table of Contents   

In the first and second quarter, we engaged Deloitte   Touche LLP to provide
consulting services in support of our tax accounting and reporting functions, and, in
the third quarter, we hired a Director of Taxation to replace
Deloitte & Touche LLP and perform our tax accounting and
reporting functions internally; 

we reconciled our accounts related to all inventory on consignment at customer
locations, which totaled $1.3 million as of January 31, 2006, and, in the first quarter,
we adopted additional procedures to verify such inventory, including periodic physical
inventories; and 

our accounting management reviewed all revenue transactions of our Network Test and
Monitoring Division recorded during each quarter to assure that revenue was properly
recognized. 

Aside from ongoing steps taken to implement the remediation plan, there was no change in our
internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended January 31, 2006 that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting.

Management continues to execute its remediation plan and to monitor closely the remediated
controls and procedures described above. We will continue the implementation of additional
policies, processes and procedures and the hiring of additional experienced accounting and
financial reporting personnel at both management and staff levels. Management believes that our
controls and procedures will continue to improve as a result of the further implementation of these
measures. We expect to complete our remediation plan and the testing of remediated controls and
procedures by the end of fiscal 2006.

Evaluation of Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated the effectiveness of the design and
operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e)
promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Based on that evaluation, our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and
procedures were not effective as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report because
of the material weaknesses described above, the remediation of which is on-going.

We believe that the corrective actions taken to date, including the actions described above,
have mitigated the control deficiencies with respect to the preparation of this report and that
these measures have been effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in this
report has been recorded, processed, summarized and reported correctly. In particular, management
believes that the measures implemented to date provide reasonable assurance that our financial
statements included in this report have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1.    Legal Proceedings  

A securities class action lawsuit was filed on November 30, 2001 in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York, purportedly on behalf of all persons who purchased our
common stock from November 17, 1999 through December 6, 2000. The complaint named as defendants
Finisar, Jerry S. Rawls, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Frank H. Levinson, our former
Chairman of the Board and Chief Technical Officer, Stephen K. Workman, our Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer, and an investment banking firm that served as an underwriter for our
initial public offering in November 1999 and a secondary offering in April 2000. The complaint, as
subsequently amended, alleges violations of Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 and
Sections 10(b) and 20(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, on the grounds that the
prospectuses incorporated in the registration statements for the offerings failed to disclose,
among other things, that (i) the underwriter had solicited and received excessive and undisclosed
commissions from certain investors in exchange for which the underwriter allocated to those
investors material portions of the shares of our stock sold in the offerings and (ii) the
underwriter had entered into agreements with customers whereby the underwriter agreed to allocate
shares of our stock sold in the offerings to those customers in exchange for which the customers
agreed to purchase additional shares of our stock in the aftermarket at pre-determined prices. No
specific damages are claimed. Similar allegations have been made in lawsuits relating to more than
300 other initial public offerings conducted in 1999 and 2000, which were consolidated for pretrial
purposes. In October 2002, all claims against the individual defendants were dismissed without
prejudice. On February 19, 2003, the Court denied our motion to dismiss the complaint. In July
2004, we and the individual defendants accepted a settlement proposal made to all of the issuer
defendants. Under the terms of the settlement, the plaintiffs will dismiss and release all claims
against participating defendants in exchange for a contingent payment guaranty by the insurance
companies collectively responsible for insuring the issuers in all related cases, and the
assignment or surrender to the plaintiffs of

47

Table of Contents   

certain claims the issuer defendants may have against the underwriters. Under the guaranty,
the insurers will be required to pay the amount, if any, by which $1 billion exceeds the aggregate
amount ultimately collected by the plaintiffs from the underwriter defendants in all the cases. If
the plaintiffs fail to recover $1 billion and payment is required under the guaranty, we would be
responsible to pay our pro rata portion of the shortfall, up to the amount of the self-insured
retention under our insurance policy, which may be up to $2 million. The timing and amount of
payments that we could be required to make under the proposed settlement will depend on several
factors, principally the timing and amount of any payment that the insurers may be required to make
pursuant to the $1 billion guaranty. The Court held hearings on April 13, 2005 and September 6,
2005 to determine the form, substance and program of class notice and the scheduling of a fairness
hearing for final approval of the settlement. The court set a hearing for April 24, 2006 to
consider final approval of the settlement. If the settlement is not approved by the Court, we
intend to defend the lawsuit vigorously. Because of the inherent uncertainty of litigation,
however, we cannot predict its outcome. If, as a result of this dispute, we are required to pay
significant monetary damages, our business would be substantially harmed.

On April 4, 2005, we filed an action in the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas against the DirecTV Group, Inc.; DirecTV Holdings, LLC; DirecTV Enterprises, LLC;
DirecTV Operations, LLC; DirecTV, Inc.; and Hughes Network Systems, Inc. (collectively,  DirecTV ).
The lawsuit involves our U.S. Patent No. 5,404,505 which relates to technology used in information
transmission systems to provide access to a large database. Our complaint alleges that DirecTV
willfully infringes our patent by making, using, selling, offering to sell and/or importing systems
and/or methods related to the transmission of electronic programming guides via satellite broadcast
that embody one or more of the claims of the patent. The complaint seeks monetary damages as well
as an injunction against future infringement. On May 13, 2005, DirecTV answered the complaint and
filed a counterclaim that seeks a declaration of non-infringement, patent invalidity and patent
unenforceability. On October 17, 2005, the parties filed a joint claim construction statement
agreeing on construction of twelve terms. The claim construction hearing was held on January 25,
2006. The Court issued an order construing the claims on February 17, 2006 and a subsequent order
on February 21, 2006, clarifying one of the patent s claim terms. The trial is scheduled for June
6, 2006.

On September 6,   2005, we filed an action in the United States District Court for
the District of Delaware against Agilent Technologies, Inc. ( Agilent ). The lawsuit alleges that
Agilent willfully infringes our U.S. Patents No. 5,019,769 and No. 6,941,077, relating to our
digital diagnostics technology, by developing, manufacturing, using, importing, selling and/or
offering to sell optoelectronic transceivers that embody one or more of the claims of the patents.
The complaint seeks damages for lost profits of at least $1.1 billion based on Agilent s sales of
infringing products. We also seek to treble those damages based on the willful nature of Agilent s
infringement and to obtain an injunction against future infringement. On October 24, 2005, we
filed an amended complaint adding allegations of infringement of our U.S. Patents No. 6,952,531 and
No. 6,957,021, two patents that also relate to our digital diagnostic technology. On December 7,
2005, Agilent answered the complaint denying infringement and asserting patent invalidity. The
Court has set a trial date of September 4, 2007.

On February 22, 2006, Avago Technologies General IP Pte. Ltd. and Avago Technologies Fiber IP
Pte. Ltd., both Singaporean corporations, filed suit against us in the United States District Court
for the District of Delaware, alleging that our short-wavelength optoelectronic transceivers
infringe U.S. Patents Nos. 5,359,447 and 5,761,229. The Avago entities were created as a result of
the recent acquisition of Agilent s Semiconductor Products Group (which included Agilent s
optoelectronic transceiver business) by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts   Co., Silver Lake Partners, and
others. The complaint sought damages for willful infringement, injunctive relief, prejudgment
interest, and attorneys  fees. On March 2, 2006, Avago dismissed the complaint without prejudice.

On October 6, 2005, The Epoch Group, Inc. ( Epoch ) sued us in the United States District
Court for the Central District of California. Epoch s complaint, as amended on November 28, 2005,
alleged that we violated federal antitrust laws and the Lanham Act and committed defamation per se
by, among other things, disparaging Epoch s products and services, maintaining secret prices and
purchasing competing companies. The amended complaint sought damages in the amount of $9 million.
The federal action was based largely on facts similar to those alleged by Epoch in an action
against us filed on February 22, 2005 in the California Superior Court for the County of Ventura.
In the state action, Epoch alleged interference with contract and unfair business practices and
sought damages of approximately $5 million. The state court complaint alleged, among other things,
that we interfered with an Epoch sale contract with EMC Corporation by offering EMC a secret
discount on our products. On April 5, 2005, we filed a cross-complaint against Epoch alleging
interference with prospective economic advantage, unfair competition, misappropriation of trade
secrets, civil conspiracy, unfair competition and trade libel and seeking damages of at least $1
million. As alleged by us   and by EMC   EMC canceled Epoch s sale contract because it learned
that Epoch had bribed a now-terminated EMC employee to get the contract in the first instance.
Trial in the state action was set for February 25, 2006. On January 30, 2006, we filed a motion to
dismiss the federal complaint in its entirety. On February 21, 2006, the Court issued an order
granting our motion and dismissing all of Epoch s claims without prejudice. Prior to the entry of
that order, at a February 7, 2006 mandatory settlement conference in the state action, the parties
agreed to settle both lawsuits on the basis of mutual dismissals with prejudice and mutual releases
with no money changing hands.

48

Table of Contents   

Item 6.    Exhibits  

The following exhibits are filed herewith:

49

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

FINISAR CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ JERRY S. RAWLS 

Jerry S. Rawls 

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer  

By:

/s/ STEPHEN K. WORKMAN 

Stephen K. Workman 

Senior Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary  

Dated: March 10, 2006

50

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

<EX-31.1>
 2
 f18327exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1

CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT 
TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Jerry S. Rawls, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Finisar Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors:

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 10, 2006

/s/ Jerry S. Rawls 

Jerry S. Rawls  
Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 f18327exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2

CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT 
TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Stephen K. Workman, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Finisar Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors:

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 10, 2006

/s/ Stephen K. Workman 

Stephen K. Workman  
Senior Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 f18327exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT 
TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Jerry S. Rawls, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Quarterly Report of Finisar Corporation (the  Company )
on Form 10-Q for the three months ended January 31, 2006 (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information
contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of the Company.

Dated: March 10, 2006

/s/ Jerry S. Rawls 

Jerry S. Rawls 

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 f18327exv32w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

exv32w2 

EXHIBIT 32.2

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT 
TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Stephen K. Workman, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Quarterly Report of Finisar Corporation (the
 Company ) on Form 10-Q for the three months ended January 31, 2006 (the  Report ) fully complies
with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the Company.

Dated: March 10, 2006

/s/ Stephen K. Workman 

Stephen K. Workman 

Senior Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary 

</EX-32.2>

