<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060308_10-Q_edgar_data_102741_0000897101-06-000553_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>229926</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>49506</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>143521</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>14</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000897101-06-000553.hdr.sgml : 20060308
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060308164424
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000897101-06-000553
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060127
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060308
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060308

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VALSPAR CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000102741
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS [2851]
		IRS NUMBER:				362443580
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03011
		FILM NUMBER:		06673585

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1101 THIRD ST SOUTH
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55415
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6123327371

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1101 THIRD STREET SOUTH
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55415

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Ta7Q/k5LOCIqBn2aNGhZWwz9rRzLsY2HPXluhAvpz+CW1S9CWQnksifrSCa6T+V7
 p5RTFBHP1KXfR022w7Ct2g==

 0000897101-06-000553.txt : 20060308

10-Q
 1
 valspar061084_10q.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT FOR PERIOD ENDED 1-27-2006

The Valspar Corporation Form 10-Q for the period ended January 27, 2006  

Table of Contents    

UNITED STATES
 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
  Washington, DC 20549    

FORM 10-Q   

x  
 QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
 THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    

  For the quarterly period ended January 27, 2006   
  or   

  o  
 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
 THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1934   

  For the transition period from _________ to ________   

  Commission File Number:   1-3011   

THE VALSPAR CORPORATION   
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Delaware   
          
        36-2443580   

(State or other jurisdiction of       
       (I.R.S. Employer        
 
       incorporation or organization)       
       Identification No.)        

1101 Third Street South
 Minneapolis, MN 55415   
  (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)   

612/332-7371   
  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.     
 x  
 Yes  
       o  
  No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer,
an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).   

  Large accelerated filer  
 x          
 Accelerated filer  
 o          
 Non-accelerated filer  
 o   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).     
 o  
 Yes  
       x  
  No   

As of March 6, 2006, The Valspar Corporation had 101,656,250 shares of common
stock outstanding, excluding 18,786,374 shares held in treasury. The Company had no other classes of stock outstanding.

Table of Contents    
  -1-   

THE VALSPAR CORPORATION   

Index to Form 10-Q
 for the Quarter Ended January 27, 2006   

Table of Contents    
  -2-   

PART I.    FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

  ITEM 1.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

  THE VALSPAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)   

NOTE:    
      
  The Balance Sheet at October 28, 2005 has been derived from the
audited consolidated financial statements at that date.   

See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements   

Table of Contents    
  -3-   

  THE VALSPAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   CONTINUED
 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)   

NOTE:    
      
  The Balance Sheet at October 28, 2005 has been derived from the
audited consolidated financial statements at that date.   

See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements   

Table of Contents    
  -4-   

THE  VALSPAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS)   

See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements   

Table of Contents    
  -5-   

THE  VALSPAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)
 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)   

See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements   

Table of Contents    
  -6-   

THE  VALSPAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
 JANUARY 27, 2006   

NOTE 1 :   BASIS OF PRESENTATION    

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of The
Valspar Corporation ( the Company ) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles for
complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered
necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Operating results for the quarter ended January 27, 2006 are not necessarily
indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending October 27, 2006.   

The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at October 28, 2005 has been derived
from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information and footnotes required
by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements.   

For further information refer to the consolidated financial statements and
footnotes thereto included in The Valspar Corporation s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 28, 2005.

NOTE 2 :   ACCOUNTS PAYABLE    

Trade accounts payable includes $26.9 million at January 27, 2006, $36.8
million at October 28, 2005 and $35.5 million at January 28, 2005 of issued checks that had not cleared the Company s bank
accounts.   

NOTE 3 :   ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES    

In June 2005, the Company acquired Samuel Cabot Incorporated, a privately
owned manufacturer of premium quality exterior and interior stains and finishes based in Newburyport, Massachusetts. Samuel
Cabot s revenue for fiscal year 2004 was approximately $58 million. The net assets and operating results have been included
in the Company s financial statements from the date of acquisition. The purchase price allocation is preliminary. The pro
forma results of operations for this acquisition have not been presented, as the impact on reported results is not material.

NOTE 4 :   COMPREHENSIVE INCOME    

For the three months ended January 27, 2006 and January 28, 2005,
Comprehensive Income, a component of Stockholders  Equity, was as follows:   

Table of Contents    
  -7-   

THE VALSPAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
 JANUARY 27, 2006   CONTINUED   

NOTE 5 :   GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS    

The carrying amount of goodwill for the quarter ended January 27, 2006
decreased from the end of fiscal 2005 by $1.8 million to $1,063.1 million. The decrease is attributable to foreign currency
translation.   

Total intangible asset amortization expense for the three months ended
January 27, 2006 was $1.2 million, compared to $1.2 million for the same period last year. Estimated amortization expense for each
of the five succeeding fiscal years based on the intangible assets as of January 27, 2006 is expected to be approximately $4.8
million annually.   

NOTE 6 :   SEGMENT INFORMATION    

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131 (SFAS
131),  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,  and based on the nature of the
Company s products, technology, manufacturing processes, customers, and regulatory environment, the Company has determined
that it operates its business in two reportable segments: Paints and Coatings.   

SFAS 131 requires an enterprise to report segment information in the same way
that management internally organizes its business for assessing performance and making decisions regarding allocation of
resources. The Company evaluates the performances of operating segments and allocates resources based on profit or loss from
operations before interest expense and taxes (EBIT).   

The Paints segment includes the products from the Architectural, Automotive
and Specialty (AAS) product line. AAS products include interior and exterior decorative paints, stains, primers, varnishes and
specialty decorative products, such as enamels, aerosols, and faux finishes, used primarily in the do-it-yourself market. Other
Paints products include automotive refinish paints and high performance floor paints.   

The Coatings segment includes the products from the Industrial and Packaging
product lines. Industrial products include a broad range of decorative and protective coatings for metal, wood, plastic and glass.
Packaging products include both interior and exterior coatings used in rigid packaging containers, principally food containers and
beverage cans. The products of this segment are sold throughout the world.   

The Company s remaining activities are included in All Other. These
activities include specialty polymers and colorants for internal use and for external coatings and building product manufacturers,
as well as composites (gelcoats and related products) and furniture protection plans. Also, included within All Other are the
administrative expenses of the Company s corporate headquarters site. The administrative expenses include interest and
amortization expense, certain environmental-related expenses and other expenses not directly allocated to any other operating
segment.   

Table of Contents    
  -8-   

THE VALSPAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
 JANUARY 27, 2006   CONTINUED   

In the following table, sales between segments are recorded at selling prices
that are below market prices, generally intended to recover internal costs. Segment EBIT includes income realized on inter-segment
sales. Comparative first quarter results on this basis are as follows:   

NOTE 7 :   FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS    

The Company s involvement with
derivative financial instruments is limited principally to managing well-defined interest
rate and foreign currency exchange risks. Forward foreign currency exchange contracts are
used primarily to hedge the impact of currency fluctuations on certain inter-company and
third party transactions.   

The Company also holds interest rate
swaps and treasury locks to manage the interest rate risk associated with its current and
expected borrowings. The interest rate swap and treasury lock contract are reflected at
fair value in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Amounts to be paid or received
under the contracts are accrued as interest rates change and are recognized over the life
of the contracts as an adjustment to interest expense. Credit risk is only applicable to
gains on derivatives.   

At January 27, 2006, the Company had
a $100 million notional amount interest rate swap contract designated as a fair value
hedge to pay floating rates of interest based on LIBOR, maturing during fiscal 2008. As
the critical terms of the interest rate swap and hedged debt match, there is an assumption
of no ineffectiveness for these hedges. The Company also had a $100 million notional
amount of treasury locks to hedge, or lock in, interest rates on a probable long-term debt
issuance the Company plans to issue during fiscal year 2007.   

Table of Contents    
  -9-   

  THE VALSPAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
 JANUARY 27, 2006   CONTINUED   

NOTE 8 :   GUARANTEES AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS    

The Company sells extended furniture protection plans and offers warranties
for certain of its products. For the furniture protection plans, revenue is deferred over the contract period, generally five
years, and is recognized based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at program completion. For product
warranties, the Company estimates the costs that may be incurred under these warranties based on historical claim data and records
a liability in the amount of such costs at the time revenue is recognized. The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of these
recorded amounts and adjusts as necessary.   

Changes in the recorded amounts during the period are as follows (dollars in
thousands):   

NOTE 9 :   STOCK BASED COMPENSATION    

The Company has stock-based employee compensation plans comprised primarily
of fixed stock options. Prior to fiscal year 2006, the Company accounted for stock-based compensation programs using the intrinsic
value method under the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  (APB No. 25) and related Interpretations and applied Statement of FAS No.
123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  (FAS No. 123), as amended by FAS No. 148,  Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation   Transition and Disclosure  (FAS No. 148), for disclosure purposes only. The FAS No. 123
disclosures include pro forma net income and earnings per share as if the fair value-based method of accounting had been used.
Under the provisions of APB No. 25, no stock-based employee compensation cost is reflected in net income for stock options, as all
options granted under those plans had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant.

Effective October 29, 2005, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123R), which requires the use of the fair
value method for accounting for all stock-based compensation. The statement was adopted using the modified prospective method of
application. Under this method, in addition to reflecting compensation expense for new share-based awards, expense is also
recognized for the remaining vesting periods of awards that had been included in pro-forma expense in prior periods. The impact of
adopting SFAS No. 123R for the Company s first quarter of fiscal 2006 was an increase in compensation expense of $2.2 million
($1.4 million after tax), a reduction of $0.01 for basic   

Table of Contents    
  -10-   

THE VALSPAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
 JANUARY 27, 2006   CONTINUED   

earnings per share and $0.01 for diluted earnings per share. The Company
expects the adoption of SFAS No. 123R to incrementally increase before-tax compensation expense by approximately $9.8 million
during fiscal 2006.   

During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company granted 126,766
restricted stock shares to employees, under its Key Employee Bonus Plan. These shares vest after three years, and have a fair
value equal to the $25.07 market value as of the January 12, 2006 grant date.   

Employees who retire from the company after age 60 and officers who retire
after age 55 become fully vested in their stock options. Under SFAS No. 123 accounting, pro forma compensation cost for stock
options was calculated on a straight-line basis over the stated vesting period (currently three years). Under SFAS No. 123R,
compensation cost for awards granted after the adoption date is recognized over the period to the earlier of the retirement
eligibility date or the stated vesting date (the non-substantive vesting period approach). If this approach had been used under
SFAS No. 123, the before-tax compensation cost for the first quarter of 2006 and the pro forma compensation cost for the first
quarter of 2005 would have been $1.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively.   

As of January 28, 2006, there was $15.0 million of total unrecognized
before-tax compensation costs related to nonvested awards. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period
of 2.1 years.   

The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per
share for the three months ended January 28, 2005 if the Company had applied the fair-value recognition of FASB statement No. 123,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation for the three months ended January 28, 2005:   

(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)  
       Three Months Ended    

January 28, 2005     
 
       Net income, as reported  

$        11,698  

Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included in             
 
          reported net income, net of related tax effects            

Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation expense   
 
          determined under fair value based methods for all awards,   
 
          net of related tax effects            
            (1,385  
          )   

Pro forma net income            
       $        10,313  

Earnings per share:   
 
       Basic   as reported            
       $          0.11  

Basic   pro forma            
       $          0.10  

Diluted   as reported            
       $          0.11  

Diluted   pro forma            
       $          0.10  

Table of Contents    
  -11-   

  THE VALSPAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
 JANUARY 27, 2006   CONTINUED   

The following table sets forth a reconciliation of shares used in the
computation of basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2006 and pro-forma basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal
2005:   

Stock options awards of 4,523,406 and 3,010,744 were excluded from the shares
used in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three months ended January 27, 2006 and January 28, 2005,
respectively, since they were anti-dilutive.   

NOTE 10 :   PENSION AND OTHER POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS    

The company sponsors a number of defined benefit pension plans for certain
hourly, salaried and foreign employees. The benefits for these plans are generally based on stated amounts for each year of
service. The Company funds the plans in amounts consistent with the limits of allowable tax deductions.   

The net periodic benefit cost of the pension benefits is as follows (dollars
in thousands):   

Table of Contents    
  -12-   

  THE VALSPAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
 JANUARY 27, 2006   CONTINUED   

   NOTE 11 :   RECLASSIFICATION    

Certain amounts in the 2005 financial statements have been reclassified to
conform with the 2006 presentation.   

  ITEM 2:    MANAGEMENT S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
                   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Overview :   In the first quarter of fiscal 2006,
sales increased compared to the prior year as a result of growth across all product lines due to improved product mix and price
increases. Raw material prices have continued to increase, but the rate of increases has moderated compared to the prior year. In
the quarter, higher raw material prices were offset by improved product mix and price increases. Additionally, the Company began
to recognize compensation expense for our stock-based compensation programs following adoption of SFAS 123R. The Company s
ability to return to historical levels of gross margins depends on its ability to implement further price increases to offset
continuing increases in raw material costs.    

Critical Accounting Policies :   There were no
material changes in the Company s critical accounting policies during the first quarter ended January 27, 2006.    

Operations :   Consolidated net sales increased 13.0%
for the quarter to $629.8 million from $557.1 million in the prior year. Sales growth was 11.7%, after excluding the negative
effect of foreign currency of 0.7% and the positive effect of acquisitions of 2.0%.    

Net sales for the Paints segment increased 18.3% to $187.7 million in the
quarter compared to the prior year. The increase in sales was largely attributable to increased sales in the Architectural product
line due to strong retail momentum and favorable weather. Before acquisitions and excluding the negative effect of foreign
currency exchange, core sales growth in Paints was 12.2%. Net sales of the Coatings segment increased 12.0% to $381.0 million in
the quarter compared to the prior year. Before acquisitions and excluding the negative effect of foreign currency exchange, core
sales growth in Coatings was 12.7%. Coatings core sales growth was driven by higher selling prices to customers and growth in
industrial coatings. Due to the seasonal nature of portions of the Company s business, sales for the first quarter are not
necessarily indicative of sales for subsequent quarter or for the full year.   

In the first quarter of 2006, consolidated gross profit increased $31.8
million from the prior year to $180.5 million. As a percent of consolidated net sales, consolidated gross profit during the first
quarter of 2006 increased to 28.7% from 26.7%. The increase in gross margin was largely attributable to increases in selling
prices, principally in the Coatings segment, and manufacturing efficiencies, partially offset by raw material price increases.

Table of Contents    
  -13-   

ITEM 2:   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
                   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   CONTINUED   

Consolidated operating expenses (research and development, selling and
administrative) increased 13.4% to $133.9 million (21.3% of consolidated net sales) in the quarter compared to $118.1 million
(21.2% of consolidated net sales) in the first quarter of 2005. The increase in operating expenses during the first quarter was
due to a broad range of items including the Cabot acquisition and adoption of SFAS 123R for stock-based compensation.   

Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) increased $16.6 million or 57.1%
from the prior year first quarter. Foreign currency exchange fluctuation had an immaterial effect on EBIT. EBIT in the Paints
segment decreased to $8.2 million from $8.3 million in the prior year. As a percent of net sales for the Paints segment, EBIT
decreased to 4.3% from 5.3%. The decrease was attributable to expenses related to inventory write-downs associated with impacts
from the hurricanes in the last half of fiscal 2005, plant rationalization and stock-based compensation. EBIT in the Coatings
segment increased to $44.0 million from $25.2 million in the quarter compared to last year. As a percent of net sales for the
Coatings segment, EBIT increased to 11.5% from 7.4%. The increase was primarily due to higher prices to customers and
manufacturing efficiencies, partially offset by raw material costs and stock-based compensation expenses. EBIT in the Other
segment decreased to negative $6.4 million from negative $4.4 million in the quarter compared to last year. As a percent of net
sales for the Other segment, EBIT decreased to negative 10.5% negative from 7.6%. Included in this decrease is the impact of
stock-based compensation expenses. Due to the seasonal nature of portions of the Company s business, EBIT for the first
quarter is not necessarily indicative of EBIT for subsequent quarters or for the full year.   

Interest expense increased to $10.8 million in the first quarter of 2006 from
$10.5 million in the first quarter of 2005, primarily due to increased average interest rates.   

The effective tax rate decreased from 37.0% to 35.5% as a result of an
improvement in the geographic mix of earnings and the phase-in of the domestic manufacturing
deduction enacted with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.   

Net income in the first quarter of 2006 increased 92.7% to $22.5 million or
$.22 per diluted share.   

Financial Condition :   The net cash generated by
operations was $1.4 million for the first three months of 2006, compared with net cash used by operations of $56.5 million for the
first three months of 2005. During the same period, $17.9 million in proceeds from bank borrowings, sale of treasury stock and
disposal of assets were used to fund $11.1 million in dividend payments and $9.6 million in capital expenditures.    

The cash generated from operations was related to a reduction in accounts
receivable offset by decreases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities and an increase in inventory. Accounts receivable
decreased by $46.6 million due to timing of customer payments. Accounts payable and accrued liabilities decreased $38.9 million
largely as a result of accrued liability disbursements offset by improved accounts payable management. Inventory increased $22.6
million, primarily due to higher raw material costs.   

Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment were $9.6 million in
the first three months of 2006, compared with $13.0 million in the first three months of 2005. The Company anticipates capital
spending in 2006 to be approximately $75 million.   

Table of Contents    
  -14-   

  ITEM 2:   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
                   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   CONTINUED   

  The ratio of total debt to capital decreased to 40.6% at the end of first
quarter of 2006 compared to 41.0% at the close of fiscal 2005. The total debt to capital ratio as of January 28, 2005 was 43.1%.
The Company believes its cash flow from operations, existing lines of credit, access to credit facilities and access to debt and
capital markets will be sufficient to meet its current and projected needs for financing.   

There were no material changes in the Company s fixed cash obligations
during the three months ended January 27, 2006.   

Off-Balance Sheet Financing :   The Company has no
off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on its financial condition,
changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources
that is material to investors.    

Forward Looking Statements :   This discussion
contains certain  forward-looking  statements. These forward-looking statements are based on management s
expectations and beliefs concerning future events. Forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and
other factors, many of which are outside the control of the Company that could cause actual results to differ materially from such
statements. These uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, dependence of internal earnings growth on
economic conditions and growth in the domestic and international coatings industry; risks related to any future acquisitions,
including risks of adverse changes in the results of acquired businesses and the assumption of unforeseen liabilities; risks of
disruptions in business resulting from the integration process and higher interest costs resulting from further borrowing for any
such acquisitions; our reliance on the efforts of vendors, government agencies, utilities and other third parties to achieve
adequate compliance and avoid disruption of our business; risks of disruptions in business resulting from the Company s
relationships with customers and suppliers; unusual weather conditions adversely affecting sales; changes in raw materials pricing
and availability; delays in passing along cost increases to customers; changes in governmental regulation, including more
stringent environmental, health and safety regulations; the nature, cost and outcome of pending and future litigation and other
legal proceedings; the outbreak of war and other significant national and international events; and other risks and uncertainties.
The foregoing list is not exhaustive, and the Company disclaims any obligation to subsequently revise any forward-looking
statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements.    

ITEM 3:    QUANTITATIVE  AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    

The Company s foreign sales and results of operations are subject to the
impact of foreign currency fluctuations. The Company has not hedged its exposure to translation gains and losses; however, it has
reduced its exposure by borrowing funds in local currencies. A 10% adverse change in foreign currency rates would not have a
material effect on the Company s results of operations or financial position.   

The Company is also subject to interest rate risk. At January 27, 2006,
approximately 32% of the Company s total debt consisted of floating rate debt. From time to time, the Company may enter into
interest rate swaps to hedge a portion of either its variable or fixed rate debt. Assuming the current level of borrowings, a 10%
increase in interest rates from those in effect at the end of the first quarter would increase the Company s interest expense
for the second quarter of 2006 by approximately $0.3 million.   

Table of Contents    
  -15-   

ITEM 4:    CONTROLS  AND PROCEDURES   

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including
our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as
such term is defined under Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
 Exchange Act ), as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on their evaluation, our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

There have been no significant changes (including corrective actions with
regard to significant deficiencies or material weaknesses) in our internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
affect these controls subsequent to the date of the evaluation referenced above.   

PART II.   OTHER INFORMATION   

ITEM 1:    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     

During the period covered by this report, there were no legal proceedings
instituted that are reportable, and there were no material developments in any of the legal proceedings that were previously
reported on the Company s Form 10-K for the year ended October 28, 2005.   

ITEM 6:    EXHIBITS     

Exhibits   

Table of Contents    
  -16-   

SIGNATURES    

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.   

THE VALSPAR CORPORATION    

Date:   March 8, 2006   
       By      
       /s/   Rolf Engh     

Rolf Engh Secretary    

Date:   March 8, 2006   
       By      
       /s/   Paul C. Reyelts      

Paul C. Reyelts Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

<EX-10.(A)>
 3
 valspar061084_ex10a.htm
 1991 STOCK OPTION PLAN

Exhibit 10(a) to The Valspar Corporation Form 10-Q for the period ended January 27, 2006  

Exhibit 10(a)   

THE VALSPAR CORPORATION
 1991 STOCK OPTION PLAN   

1.     PURPOSES OF THE PLAN 

 The purposes of the 1991 Stock Option Plan (the  Plan ) are (i) to enhance the ability of The Valspar Corporation
(the  Company ) and its subsidiary companies to attract and retain superior personnel and (ii) to stimulate and reward
their interest and initiative. The Plan is designed to enable key officers and employees, and certain other key individuals who
perform services for the Company, to contribute to the Company s strategic performance objectives by making such individuals
eligible to receive options to purchase common stock of the Company as provided herein. Subject to the provisions of the Plan,
options may contain such terms and conditions as shall be required so as to be either nonqualified stock options or incentive
stock options as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). Subject to such
limits as may be imposed by existing or future laws or by the Plan, nonqualified stock options or incentive stock options or both
may be granted to eligible individuals.   

2.     STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN 

 Shares to be issued under the Plan shall be common stock of the Company (par value $.50 per share) ( common stock ),
not to exceed a maximum of 25,000,000 shares, and may be unissued shares or reacquired shares. If any options granted under the
Plan expire or terminate without having been exercised in full, such unpurchased shares shall be available for other option
grants. If shares of common stock are delivered as full or partial payment upon exercise of an option, the number of shares so
delivered shall again be available for other option grants.   

3.     ADMINISTRATION 

 The Plan shall be administered by a committee (the  Committee ), appointed from time to time by the Company s
Board of Directors (the  Board ), consisting of not less than two members of the Board. Each Committee member shall be
(a) non-employee director within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
Act ) or any successor Rule and (b) an outside director within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder. Except as provided below, the Committee shall determine from time to
time (i) the individuals to whom grants will be made; (ii) the number of shares to be granted; and (iii) the terms and provisions
of each option (which need not be identical). Except as provided below, each grant shall be in such form and content as the
Committee shall determine.   

The Committee may from time to time adopt rules for carrying out the Plan and
for its interpretation and construction which rules shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties. All determinations of
the Committee shall be made by a majority of the Committee. Any determination reduced to writing and signed by all members shall
be as effective as if it had been made by a majority vote at a duly constituted meeting.   

The Company s Chief Executive Officer may, on a discretionary basis and
without Committee review or approval, grant options to purchase up to 10,000 shares each to new employees of the Company who are
not officers of the Company. Such discretionary option grants shall not exceed 50,000 shares in total in any fiscal year. Subject
to the foregoing limitations, the Chief Executive Office shall determine from time to time (i) the new employees to whom grants
will be made, (ii) the number of shares to be granted, and (iii) the terms and provisions of each option (which need not be
identical).   

4.     ELIGIBILITY 

 Options will be granted only to salaried officers and employees of the Company or of a subsidiary (as defined in Section 425
of the Code) and to any other individual who performs services for the Company and contributes to its strategic performance
objectives, including, without limitation, members of the Board of Directors, consultants and advisors ( Optionee 
provided, however, that a consultant or advisor shall not be eligible to receive stock options hereunder unless such consultant or
advisor renders bona fide services to the Company or a subsidiary and such services are not in connection with the offer or sale
of securities in a capital-raising transaction.   

Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, the maximum number of
shares of Common Stock that may be covered by option grants to a person covered by Section 162(m) of the Code during any fiscal
year shall be 1,000,000 shares.   

5.     OPTION PRICE 

 The exercise price of each option shall be not less than 100% of the fair market value of the common stock at the closing
price on the day preceding the date that such option is granted.   

6.     EXERCISE OF OPTION 

 The Committee may prescribe at the time of grant that the option will be exercisable in full or in installments at any time or
from time to time. Optionee is not required to exercise options in the sequential order that the options were granted. An option
shall be exercised by written notice in a form designated by the Company accompanied by full payment of the purchase price. All or
part of the purchase price may be paid by surrender (or deemed surrender through attestation) of previously acquired shares of
common stock which has been owned for more than six months on the date of surrender valued at the fair market value at the closing
price on the day preceding the date of exercise. Until an option is exercised and the stock certificate issued, the Optionee shall
have no rights as a stockholder with respect to such option.   

7.     WITHHOLDING OF TAXES 

 Upon exercise of an option, the Optionee shall (i) pay cash, (ii) surrender previously acquired shares of common
stock or (iii) authorize the withholding of shares from the shares issued upon exercise of an option for all taxes required
to be withheld.   

8.     NON-TRANSFERABILITY 

 Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, Options shall not be transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, except by will
or applicable laws of descent and distribution. Only the Optionee or Optionee s legal representative or guardian or a
permitted transferee may exercise the option.   

9.     DILUTION OR OTHER ADJUSTMENTS 

 The number of shares subject to the Plan, the outstanding options and the exercise price may be adjusted by the Committee as
it deems equitable in the event of stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reclassification or similar event to prevent
dilution or enhancement of option rights.   

10.     MERGERS, ACQUISITION OR OTHER REORGANIZATION 

 The Committee may make provision, as it deems equitable, for the protection of Optionees with grants of outstanding options in
the event of (a) merger of the Company into, or the acquisition of substantially all of the stock or assets of the Company by,
another entity; or (b) liquidation; or (c) other reorganization of the Company.   

11.     CHANGE OF CONTROL 

 Upon any Change of Control, each outstanding option shall immediately become exercisable in full for the remainder of its term
without regard to any vesting or installment exercise provisions then applicable to the option. This section applies to all
options outstanding under this Plan as of June 16, 1999, as well as to all options granted under this Plan thereafter. For
purposes of this Plan, the term  Change of Control  means any of the following:   

A.   
      
   Any individual, entity or group becomes a beneficial
owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the voting
stock of the Company;    

B.   
      
   The persons who were directors of the Company
immediately prior to any contested election or series of contested elections, tender offer, exchange offer, merger, consolidation,
other business combinations, or any combination of the foregoing cease to constitute a majority of the members of the Board of
Directors of the Company immediately following such occurrence;    

C.   
      
   Any merger, consolidation, reorganization or other
business combination where the individuals or entities who constituted the Company s shareholders immediately prior to the
combination will not immediately after the combination own at least 50% of the voting securities of the business resulting from
the combination;    

D.   
      
   The sale, lease, exchange or other transfer of all
or substantially all the assets of the Company to any individual, entity or group not affiliated with the Company;

E.   
      
   The liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or

F.   
      
   The occurrence of any other event by which the
Company no longer operates as an independent public company.    

12.     AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN 

 The Plan may be amended, suspended or discontinued in whole or in part at any time and from time to time by the Board,
provided, however, that no amendment to increase the number of shares with respect to which options may be granted, or to increase
materially the benefits accruing to Optionees, or to materially modify the requirements as to eligibility, shall be effective
without stockholder approval where the failure to obtain such approval would adversely affect the compliance of the Plan with Rule
16b-3 under the Exchange Act or successor rule and with other applicable law, including the Code. No amendment of the Plan shall
adversely affect in a material manner any right of any Optionee with respect to a prior grant without such Optionee s written
consent.   

13.     DURATION OF THE PLAN 

 The Amended Plan shall become effective as of December 7, 2005, subject to stockholder approval, to increase the total number
of shares reserved for issuance upon exercise of options to be granted under the Plan. Incentive Stock Options may be granted from
time to time during a period of ten (10) years from the effective date of the Amended Plan. Nonqualified stock options may be
granted from time to time from the effective date until the Plan is discontinued or terminated by the Board.   

</EX-10.(A)>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 valspar061084_ex31-1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Exhibit 31.1 to The Valspar Corporation Form 10-Q for the period ended January 27, 2006  

Exhibit 31.1   

SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION   

I, William L. Mansfield, certify that:   

1.    
      
  I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of The Valspar
Corporation;   

2.    
      
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.    
      
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.    
      
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have:   

(a)    
      
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared;   

(b)    
      
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused
such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;   

(c)    
      
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

(d)    
      
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and   

5.    
      
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

(a)    
      
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

(b)    
      
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   

Date:   March 8, 2006  
       /s/   William L. Mansfield     

William L. Mansfield President and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 valspar061084_ex31-2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Exhibit 31.2 to The Valspar Corporation Form 10-Q for the period ended January 27, 2006  

Exhibit 31.2   

  SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION   

I, Paul C. Reyelts, certify that:   

1.    
      
  I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of The Valspar
Corporation;   

2.    
      
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.    
      
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.    
      
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have:   

(a)    
      
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared;   

(b)    
      
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused
such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;   

(c)    
      
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

(d)    
      
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and   

5.    
      
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

(a)    
      
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

(b)    
      
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   

Date:   March 8, 2006    
       /s/   Paul C. Reyelts    

Paul C. Reyelts Executive Vice President (Chief Financial Officer)    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 valspar061084_ex32-1.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO/CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Exhibit 32.1 to The Valspar Corporation Form 10-Q for the period ended January 27, 2006  

Exhibit 32.1   

  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
 18 U.S.C.  1350,
 AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
 SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the Quarterly Report of The Valspar Corporation (the
 Company ) on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 27, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the  Report ), I, William L. Mansfield, Chief Executive Officer of the Company and I, Paul C. Reyelts,
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

1.       The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1934; and   

2.       The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations
of the Company.   

/s/   William L. Mansfield     

William L. Mansfield President and Chief Executive Officer  March 8, 2006    

/s/   Paul C. Reyelts    

Paul C. Reyelts Executive Vice President (Chief Financial Officer)  March 8, 2006    

</EX-32.1>

