<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060315_10-Q_edgar_data_1084750_0000950135-06-001611_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>408791</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>159190</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>154181</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>22</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950135-06-001611.hdr.sgml : 20060315
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060315160731
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950135-06-001611
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060315
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060315

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			NAVISITE INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001084750
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-BUSINESS SERVICES, NEC [7389]
		IRS NUMBER:				522137343
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-27597
		FILM NUMBER:		06688402

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		400 MINUTEMAN RD
		CITY:			ANDOVER
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			01810
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9786828300

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 BRICKHOUSE SQUARE 5TH FLOOR
		CITY:			ANDOVER
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			01810

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 THvDEI+wXIh2AQXl2gfJz6UrqQk6RK+UpodJePF4b9+vVuhy409jh8d3Y5ppjxwM
 L6/e14nuDuWsHUnWOSdcsw==

 0000950135-06-001611.txt : 20060315

10-Q
 1
 b59738nie10vq.htm
 NAVISITE, INC.

e10vq 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

For the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006  

OR 

For
the transition period from                       to                       

Commission file number: 000-27597 

NAVISITE, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware 

52-2137343  

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer 

incorporation or organization)

Identification No.) 

400 Minuteman Road 
Andover, Massachusetts 

01810  

(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code) 

(978) 682-8300  
(Registrant s telephone number, including area code)

None  
(Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes    

No     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 

 Large accelerated filer    
    Accelerated filer         Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes    

No     

As of March 9, 2006, there were 28,489,482 shares outstanding of the registrant s common
stock, par value $.01 per share.

NAVISITE, INC. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

REPORT ON FORM 10-Q 
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED JANUARY 31, 2006 

2

Table of Contents   

PART I: FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1. Financial Statements 

NAVISITE, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

(Unaudited) 

(In thousands, except par value) 

See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

3

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

(Unaudited) 

(In thousands, except per share amounts) 

See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

4

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

(Unaudited) 

(In thousands) 

See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

5

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
  (Unaudited)  

(1) Description of Business 

NaviSite, Inc. ( NaviSite ,  the Company ,  we ,  us  or  our ) provides information
technology (IT) hosting, outsourcing and professional services for mid- to large-sized
organizations. Leveraging our set of technologies and subject matter expertise, we deliver
cost-effective, flexible solutions that provide responsive and predictable levels of service for
our clients  business. Over 900 companies across a variety of industries rely on NaviSite to build,
implement and manage their mission-critical systems and applications. NaviSite is a trusted advisor
committed to ensuring the long-term success of our customers  business applications and technology
strategy. NaviSite has 14 state-of-the-art data centers and 8 major office locations across the
U.S., U.K. and India. Substantially all revenue is generated from customers in the United States.

(2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

(a) Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation 

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts
and operations of NaviSite, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and have been prepared pursuant
to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding interim financial
reporting. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and notes required by U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements and thus should be read
in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed on October 31, 2005. In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited
condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of those of a
normal recurring nature, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company s financial position,
results of operations and cash flows at the dates and for the periods indicated. The results of
operations for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of
the results expected for the remainder of the fiscal year ending July 31, 2006.

All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates made by management include
the useful lives of fixed assets and intangible assets, recoverability of long-lived assets, the
collectability of receivables and other assumptions for sublease and lease abandonment reserves.

(b) Revenue Recognition 

Revenue consists of monthly fees for Web site and Internet custom and packaged application
management, hosting, colocation and professional services. The
Company also derives a nonmaterial amount of revenue from
the sale of software and related maintenance contracts. Reimbursable expenses charged to clients
are included in revenue and cost of revenue. Application management, hosting and colocation revenue
(other than installation fees) is billed and recognized over the term of the contract, generally
one to three years, based on actual usage. Payments received in advance of providing services are
deferred until the period such services are provided. Revenue from professional services,
application management, hosting and colocation revenue is recognized on either a time and material
basis as the services are performed or under the percentage of completion method for fixed-price
contracts. We generally sell our professional services under contracts with terms ranging from one
to five years. When current contract estimates indicate that a loss is probable, a provision is
made for the total anticipated loss in the current period. Contract losses are determined to be the
amount by which the estimated service costs of the contract exceed the estimated revenue that will
be generated by the contract. Unbilled accounts receivable represents revenue for services
performed that have not been billed. Billings in excess of revenue recognized are recorded as
deferred revenue until the applicable revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue from the sale
of software is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been
delivered, the fees are fixed and determinable and collection of the resulting receivable is
reasonably assured. In instances where the Company also provides application management

6

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
  (Unaudited)  

and hosting services in conjunction with the sale of software, software revenue is deferred and
recognized ratably over the expected customer relationship period. If we determine that collection of a fee is not
reasonably assured, we defer the fee and recognize revenue at the time collection becomes
reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash.

(c) Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash 

The Company considers all highly liquid securities with original maturities of three months or
less to be cash equivalents. The Company had restricted cash of $1.2 million, including $0.2
million and $0.1 million which is classified as short-term and is included in  Prepaid expenses and
other current assets  on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005,
respectively, which primarily represents cash collateral requirements for standby letters of credit
associated with several of the Company s facility and equipment leases.

(d) Property and Equipment 

Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from three to five years.
Leasehold improvements and assets acquired under capital leases are amortized using the
straight-line method over the shorter of the lease term or estimated useful life of the asset.
Assets acquired under capital leases in which title transfers to us at the end of the agreement are
amortized over the useful life of the asset. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged
to expense as incurred.

(e) Long-lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Intangibles 

The Company follows the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No.
144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  This statement requires that
long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of
an asset to undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such
assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by
which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed
of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.

The Company reviews the valuation of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142  Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets.  Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, goodwill is required to be tested
for impairment annually in lieu of being amortized. This testing is done on the last day of the
fourth quarter of each year. Furthermore, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment on an
interim basis if an event or circumstance indicates that it is more likely than not an impairment
loss has been incurred. An impairment loss shall be recognized to the extent that the carrying
amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. Impairment losses shall be recognized in
operations. The Company s valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to
make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and projections of future operating
performance. If these assumptions differ materially from future results, the Company may record
impairment charges in the future.

(f) Financial Instruments and Concentration of Credit Risk 

Our financial instruments include cash, accounts receivable, obligations under capital leases
and notes payable. As of January 31, 2006,
the carrying cost of these instruments approximated their fair value. The financial instruments
that potentially subject us to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of accounts
receivable. Concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the
large number of customers across many industries that comprise our customer base. One third-party
customer accounted for 10% and 8% of our total revenue for the six months ended January 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively. Accounts receivable included approximately $2.4 million due from this
third-party customer at January 31, 2006.

7

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
  (Unaudited)  

(g) Comprehensive Income (Loss) 

Comprehensive income (loss) is defined as the change in equity of a business enterprise during
a period of time from transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner sources. The
Company reports accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), resulting from foreign currency
translation adjustment, on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.

(h) Income Taxes 

We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS No.
109,  Accounting for Income Taxes . Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying
amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and
tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected
to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax
rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.

(i) Stock Based Compensation 

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a
Statement,  Share-Based Payment, an amendment of FASB Statements Nos. 123 and 95  (SFAS 123R), that
addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions in which a company receives employee
services in exchange for either equity instruments of the company or liabilities that are based on
the fair value of the company s equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of such
equity instruments. The statement eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation
transactions using the intrinsic value method and generally requires that such transactions be
accounted for using a fair value based method and recognized as expense in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations. In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 107
regarding the Staff s interpretation of SFAS 123R. This interpretation provides the Staff s views
regarding interpretations between SFAS 123R and certain SEC rules and regulations and provides
interpretations of the valuation of share-based payments for public companies. The interpretive
guidance is intended to assist companies in applying the provisions of SFAS 123R and investors and
users of financial statements in analyzing the information provided.

Following the guidance prescribed in SAB 107, on August 1, 2005, NaviSite adopted SFAS 123R
using the modified prospective method, and accordingly, we have not restated the consolidated
results of income from prior interim periods and fiscal years. Under SFAS 123R, we are required to
measure compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognize
compensation expense over the service period that the awards are expected to vest. The Company
generally grants options under its equity plan that vest as to 25% of the original number of shares
on the six month anniversary of the option holder and thereafter in equal monthly amounts over the
three year period commencing on the six month anniversary of the option holder.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, we recognized compensation cost for stock options issued
with exercise prices set below market prices on the date of grant. During the three and six months
ended January 31, 2005, we recognized compensation expense of approximately $196,000 and $380,000,
respectively, for stock options in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. The following table
illustrates the effect on net loss and net loss per common share if we had applied the fair value
recognition provisions of SFAS 123 to stock based compensation.

8

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
  (Unaudited)  

Upon adoption of SFAS 123R, we recognized the compensation expense associated with
awards granted after August 1, 2005 and the unvested portion of previously granted awards that
remain outstanding as of August 1, 2005, in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the first
quarter of fiscal year 2006. During the quarter ended January 31, 2006, we recognized $244,000 in
cost of sales compensation expense, $86,000 in sales and marketing compensation expense and
$703,000 in general and administrative compensation expense for stock options. For the six months
ended January 31, 2006, we recognized $494,000 in cost of sales compensation expense, $165,000 in
sales and marketing compensation expense and $1,461,000 in general and administrative compensation
expense for stock options.

The total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested awards is $5.0
million. The weighted average period over which the cost is expected to be recognized is 1.88
years.

Consistent with our valuation method for the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS 123, we are
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model to value the compensation expense associated with our
stock-based awards under SFAS 123R. In addition, we estimate forfeitures when recognizing
compensation expense, and we will adjust our estimate of forfeitures when they are expected to
differ. For the three and six months ended January 31, 2006, we estimated that 15% of options
granted will be forfeited before the first vesting tranche. Forfeitures after the first vesting
tranche are estimated to not be material.

The fair value of each stock option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model, assuming no expected dividends and the following weighted
average assumptions. The expected volatility is based upon the historical volatility of the
Company s stock price.

The following table reflects stock option activity under the Company s equity plans for the
six months ending January 31, 2006.

9

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
  (Unaudited)  

(j) Net Loss Per Share 

Basic net loss per share is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net loss per share is computed using the weighted
average number of common and diluted common equivalent shares outstanding during the period, using
either the  if-converted  method for convertible preferred stock and notes or the treasury stock
method for warrants and options, unless amounts are anti-dilutive.

For the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, net loss per basic and diluted
share is based on weighted average common shares and excludes any common stock equivalents, as they
would be anti-dilutive due to the reported losses. For the three and six months ended January 31,
2006, there were 6,250 dilutive shares, related to warrants and employee stock options that were
excluded as they have an anti-dilutive effect due to the net loss during these periods. For the
three and six months ended January 31, 2005, there were 521,966 and 521,904 dilutive shares,
respectively, related to warrants, employee stock options and unissued shares related to the Avasta
settlement that were excluded as they have an anti-dilutive effect due to the net loss during these
periods.

(k) Segment Reporting 

We currently operate in one segment, managed IT services. The Company s chief operating
decision maker reviews financial information at a consolidated level. The Company has determined
that reporting revenue at a service offering level is impracticable.

(l) Foreign Currency 

The functional currencies of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are the local currencies. The
financial statements of the subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using period end exchange
rates for assets and liabilities and weighted average exchange rates during corresponding periods
for revenue, cost of revenue and expenses. Translation gains and losses are deferred and
accumulated as a separate component of stockholders  equity ( Accumulated other comprehensive
income ).

(m) Reclassifications 

Certain fiscal quarter 2005 balances have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal quarter
2006 financial statement presentation.

10

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

(Unaudited)  

(3) Liquidity 

As of January 31, 2006, our principal sources of liquidity included cash and cash equivalents
and our financing agreement with Silicon Valley Bank (SVB). We had a working capital deficit of
$80.6 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $1.9 million at January 31, 2006, as compared
to a working capital deficit of $77.6 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $6.8 million,
at July 31, 2005.

The total net change in cash and cash equivalents for the six months ended January 31, 2006
was a decrease of $4.9 million. The primary uses of cash during the six months ended January 31,
2006 included $0.5 million of cash used for operating activities, $2.3 million for purchases of
property and equipment and approximately $2.5 million in repayments on notes payable and capital
lease obligations. Our primary sources of cash during the six months ended January 31, 2006 were
$0.4 million in proceeds from notes payable. Net cash used for operating activities of $0.5 million
during the six months ended January 31, 2006, resulted primarily from funding our $7.4 million net
loss and $2.8 million of net changes in operating assets and liabilities, which was partially
offset by non-cash charges of approximately $9.7 million. At January 31, 2006, we had an
accumulated deficit of $463.4 million, and have reported losses from operations since
incorporation. At July 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $455.9 million.

Our accounts receivable financing line with SVB allows for maximum borrowing of $20.4 million
and expires on April 29, 2006. On January 31, 2006, we had an outstanding balance under the amended
agreement of $20.4 million. Borrowings are based on monthly recurring revenue. We are required to
prepare and deliver a written request for an advance of up to three times the value of total
recurring monthly revenue, calculated to be monthly revenue (including revenue from The New York
State Department of Labor) less professional services revenue. SVB may then provide an advance of
85% of such value (or such other percentage as the bank may determine). The interest rate under the
amended agreement is variable and is currently calculated at the bank s published  prime rate  plus
4.0%. The financing agreement also contains certain affirmative and negative covenants and is
secured by substantially all of our assets, tangible and intangible. Following the completion of
certain equity or debt financings, and provided we continue to meet certain ratios, the interest
rate shall be reduced to the bank s prime rate plus 1.0%. In no event, however, will the bank s
prime rate be less than 4.25%. The accounts receivable financing line at July 31, 2005 is reported
net of the remaining value ascribed to the related warrants of $53,000.

At January 31, 2006, the Company had $1.2 million in outstanding standby letters of credit,
issued in connection with facility and equipment lease agreements, which are 100% cash
collateralized. Cash subject to collateral requirements has been recorded as restricted cash of
which $1.0 million and $1.1 million is classified as non-current on our balance sheet at January
31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively.

We anticipate that we will continue to incur net losses in the future. We have taken several
actions we believe will allow us to continue as a going concern, including closing and integrating
strategic acquisitions, making changes to our senior management and bringing costs more in line
with projected revenue. We will need to find sources of additional financing, or refinance or
restructure our existing indebtedness, in order to remain a going concern. In
September 2005, we engaged financial advisors to assist us in refinancing our debt and, while there
can be no assurances that we will be successful in our refinancing efforts, we believe we will
conclude this process prior to our indebtedness coming due. We are obligated to use a significant
portion of any proceeds raised in an equity or debt financing or by sales of assets to make
payments on the notes payable to Waythere, Inc. (formerly known as Surebridge, Inc.), depending on
the total net proceeds received by us in the financing (see Note 10(e)).

11

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 (Unaudited)  

Our operating forecast incorporates growth projections from industry analysts for the markets
in which we participate. Our forecast also incorporates the future cash flow benefits expected from
our continued efforts to increase efficiencies and reduce redundancies. Nonetheless, our forecast
includes the need to raise additional funds. Our cash flow estimates are based upon attaining
certain levels of sales, maintaining budgeted levels of operating expenses, collections of accounts
receivable and maintaining our current borrowing line with SVB among other assumptions, including
the improvement in the overall macroeconomic environment. However, there can be no
assurance that we will be able to meet such assumptions. Our operating forecast does not depend
upon our ability to make additional acquisitions which could be impacted by our current stock
price. Our sales estimate includes revenue from new and existing customers, which may not be
realized, and we may be required to further reduce expenses if budgeted sales are not attained. We
may be unsuccessful in reducing expenses in proportion to any shortfall in projected sales and our
estimate of collections of accounts receivable may be hindered by our customers  ability to pay. In
addition, we are currently involved in various pending and potential legal proceedings. While we
believe that the allegations against us in each of these matters are without merit, and/or that we
have a meritorious defense in each, we are not able to predict the final outcomes of these matters
and the effect, if any, on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
If we are ultimately unsuccessful in any of these matters, we could be required to pay substantial
amounts of cash to the other parties. The amount and timing of any such payments could adversely
affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

(4) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 

During the six months ended January 31, 2005, the Company recorded a $0.3 million impairment
charge for property and equipment, consisting primarily of unamortized leasehold improvements
related to our 10 Maguire Road facility in Lexington, MA. The impairment charge is included in
 Impairment, restructuring and other  in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Operations (see Note 11). No impairment charges related to long-lived assets were recorded during
the six months ended January 31, 2006.

(5) Property and Equipment 

Property and equipment at January 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005 are summarized as follows:

The estimated useful lives of our fixed assets are as follows: office furniture and equipment,
5 years; computer equipment, 3 years; software licenses, 3 years or life of the license; and
leasehold improvements, life of the lease.

Equipment valued at approximately $0.1 million and $1.2 million was purchased under capital
leases during the three and six months ended January 31, 2006.

(6) Intangible Assets 

The gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization as of January 31, 2006 and July 31,
2005 for customer lists related to prior acquisitions are as follows:

12

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 (Unaudited)  

Intangible asset amortization expense for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 and
2005 aggregated $1.2 million and $2.5 million, and $1.4 million and $2.9 million, respectively.
Customer lists are being amortized over estimated useful lives ranging from five to eight years.
The amount reflected in the table below for fiscal year 2006 includes year to date amortization.
Amortization expense related to intangible assets for the next five years is as follows:

(7) Goodwill 

We perform our annual impairment analysis of goodwill on the last day of our fiscal fourth
quarter.

(8) Investment in Debt Securities 

In a privately negotiated transaction with Fir Tree Recovery Master Fund, LP and Fir Tree
Value Partners, LDC, pursuant to an Assignment Agreement dated October 11, 2002 and in a series of
open market transactions from certain other third-party holders, we acquired an aggregate principal
amount of approximately $36.3 million face value, 10% convertible senior notes (Interliant Notes)
due in 2006 of Interliant, Inc. (Interliant) for a total consideration of approximately $2.0
million. Interliant was a provider of managed services, which filed a petition under Chapter 11 of
Title 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the Southern District of New York (White Plains)
on August 5, 2002, and we made this investment with the intention of participating in the
reorganization/sale of Interliant.

On May 16, 2003, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed us as the successful bidder for the purchase
of the Interliant Assets. We used $624,000 of the first projected distributions to be made on our
Interliant Notes as partial payment for the assets acquired. As such, we have reduced the carrying
value of the Interliant Notes by this amount. On September 30, 2004, the Third Amended Plan of
Liquidation of Interliant and its affiliated debtors became effective. As a result of unfavorable
facts and circumstances occurring in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005, as learned from
bankruptcy counsel, which negatively impacted the recoverability of our investment, the Company
recorded an impairment charge in the amount of $1.1 million, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year
2005, reducing the carrying value of the Interliant Notes to approximately $0.2 million. The final
amount and timing of any distributions we will receive on our Interliant Notes has not been
determined. It may be greater or less than the remaining $0.2 million carrying value which is
included in  Other assets  on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

(9) Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities 

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consist of the following:

13

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 (Unaudited)  

(10) Debt 

Debt consists of the following:

(a) Silicon Valley Bank Financing Arrangements 

Our accounts receivable financing line with Silicon Valley Bank allows for maximum borrowing
of $20.4 million and expires on April 29, 2006. On January 31, 2006, we had an outstanding balance
under the amended agreement of $20.4 million. Borrowings are based on monthly recurring revenue. We
are required to prepare and deliver a written request for an advance of up to three times the value
of total recurring monthly revenue, calculated to be monthly revenue (including revenue from The
New York State Department of Labor) less professional services revenue. SVB may then provide an
advance of 85% of such value (or such other percentage as the bank may determine). The interest
rate under the amended agreement is variable and is currently calculated at the bank s published
 prime rate  plus 4.0%. The financing agreement also contains certain affirmative and negative
covenants and is secured by substantially all of our assets, tangible and intangible. Following the
completion of certain equity or debt financings, and provided we continue to meet certain ratios,
the interest rate shall be reduced to the bank s prime rate plus 1.0%. In no event, however, will
the bank s prime rate be less than 4.25%. The accounts receivable financing line at July 31, 2005
is reported net of the remaining value ascribed to the related warrants of $53,000.

(b) Note Payable to Atlantic Investors, LLC 

On January 29, 2003, we entered into a $10.0 million Loan and Security Agreement (Atlantic
Loan) with Atlantic Investors, LLC (Atlantic), a related party. The Atlantic Loan bears an interest
rate of 8% per annum. Interest is payable upon demand or, at Atlantic s option, interest may be
added to the outstanding balance under the Atlantic Loan. Atlantic may make demand for payment of
amounts in excess of the minimum Atlantic Loan amount of $2.0 million (Minimum Loan Amount), with
60 days notice. Atlantic can demand payment of the Minimum Loan Amount with 90 days notice. Under
the Atlantic Loan agreement, we can require Atlantic to loan us (1) up to $2.0 million to repay an
amount due from CBTM to Unicorn, a party related to NaviSite and Atlantic; (2) $1.0 million for
costs associated with our acquisition of Avasta; and (3) up to $500,000 for the post-acquisition
working capital needs of Avasta. Atlantic, at its sole and absolute discretion, may advance other
amounts to us such that the aggregate amount borrowed by us does not exceed the maximum loan
amount, defined as the lesser of $10.0 million or 65% of our consolidated accounts receivables. On
May 30, 2003, we repaid $2.0 million of the approximate $3.0 million outstanding under the Atlantic
Loan and on June 11, 2003, we borrowed $2.0 million under the Atlantic Loan. At January 31, 2006,
we had $3.0 million outstanding under the Atlantic Loan. This amount is shown as Current Note
Payable to Related Party on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Atlantic Loan is secured by all of
our receivables and is subordinated to the borrowings from Silicon Valley Bank. At January 31,
2006, we had approximately $0.7 million in accrued interest related to this note.

On January 16, 2004, the Atlantic Loan was amended to extend any and all Credit Advances under
the Atlantic
Loan made prior to, or following, January 16, 2004, to be due on or before the earlier of (i)
August 1, 2004 or (ii)
five (5) business days following the closing of a financing transaction or disposition pursuant to
which the Borrower receives gross proceeds of $13.0 million. Since January 16, 2004, the parties
have agreed on several occasions to extend the maturity date of the Atlantic Loan, most recently on
January 31, 2006, when the Atlantic Loan was amended to extend
any and all Credit Advances under the Atlantic Loan made prior to, or
following, January 31,

14

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
  (Unaudited)  

2006, to become due on the earlier of (i) April 3, 2006 or (ii) five (5) business days following
the closing of a financing transaction or disposition pursuant to which the Borrower receives net
proceeds of $13.0 million after first satisfying the mandatory prepayment obligation under those
certain Notes due to Waythere, Inc. (formerly known as Surebridge, Inc.).

(c) Notes Payable to the AppliedTheory Estate 

As part of CBTM s acquisition of certain AppliedTheory assets, CBTM entered into two unsecured
promissory notes totaling $6.0 million (Estate Liability) due to the AppliedTheory Estate on June
13, 2006. The Estate Liability bears interest at 8% per annum, which is due and payable annually.
At January 31, 2006, we had approximately $0.3 million in accrued interest related to these notes.

(d) Notes Payable to Landlord 

As part of an amendment to our 400 Minuteman Road lease, $2.2 million of our future payments
to the landlord of our 400 Minuteman Road facility were transferred into a note payable (Landlord
Note). The Landlord Note bears interest at an annual rate of 11% and calls for 36 equal monthly
payments of principal and interest, with the final payment due on November 1, 2006. The $2.2
million represents leasehold improvements made by the landlord, on our behalf, to the 400 Minuteman
location in order to facilitate the leasing of a portion of the facility (First Lease Amendment),
as well as common area maintenance and property taxes associated with the space.

In addition, during fiscal year 2004, we paid $120,000 and we entered into a separate $150,000
note (Second Landlord Note) with the landlord for additional leasehold improvements to facilitate a
subleasing transaction involving a specific section of the 400 Minuteman location. The Second
Landlord Note bears interest at an annual rate of 11% and calls for 36 equal monthly payments of
principal and interest, with the final payment due on March 1, 2007.

(e) Convertible Notes Payable to Waythere, Inc. (formerly Surebridge) 

On June 10, 2004, in connection with our acquisition of the Surebridge business, we issued two
convertible promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $39.3 million. Upon
final resolution of the net worth calculation, we entered into an agreement, on October 19, 2005,
with Waythere, Inc. reducing the outstanding principal balance on the outstanding notes by
approximately $3.1 million. Interest shall accrue on the unpaid balance of the notes at the annual
rate of 10%, provided that if an event of default shall occur and be continuing, the interest rate
shall be 15%. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no interest shall accrue or be payable on any
principal amounts repaid on or prior to the nine-month anniversary of the issuance date of the
notes. We must repay the outstanding principal of the notes with all interest accrued thereon, no
later than June 10, 2006. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition agreement, $0.8 million of the
primary note was callable at anytime for a period of one year from June 10, 2004, the date of
closing. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, the noteholder requested payment of $0.8
million and we paid this amount during the second quarter of fiscal year 2005.

In addition, if we realize net proceeds in excess of $1.0 million from certain equity or debt
financings or sales of assets, we are obligated to make payments on the notes equal to 75% of the
net proceeds.

It shall be deemed an event of default under the notes if, among other things, we fail to pay
when due any amounts under the notes, if we fail to pay when due or experience an event of default
with respect to any debts having an outstanding principal amount of $500,000 or more, if we are
delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, or if we are acquired and the acquiring party does not
expressly agree to assume the notes. In addition, certain bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency,
dissolution and receivership actions would be deemed an event of default
under the notes. If an event of default under the notes occurs, the holder shall be entitled to
declare the notes immediately due and payable in full.

The notes provide that we shall not incur any indebtedness in excess of $20.5 million in the
aggregate, unless such indebtedness is unsecured and expressly subordinated to the notes, is
otherwise permitted under the notes, or the proceeds are used to make payments on the notes.

On July 29, 2005, the Company entered into a Consent and Waiver Agreement with Waythere, Inc.,
whereby the parties agreed that the Company would pay $750,000 of the proceeds from the MBS
transaction to Waythere, Inc., reducing the principal amounts outstanding under the notes. On
August 1, 2005, the Company paid $750,000 pursuant to the terms of the Consent and Waiver Agreement
in connection with the MBS transaction.

15

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
  (Unaudited)  

Finally, the outstanding principal of, and accrued interest on, the notes are convertible into
shares of NaviSite common stock at a conversion price of $4.642 at the election of the holder at
any time following:

the 18-month anniversary of the closing if the aggregate principal outstanding under
the notes at such time is greater than or equal to $10.0 million; 

the second anniversary of the closing; and 

an event of default thereunder. 

As of January 31, 2006, the balance of interest accrued under the promissory notes we issued
to Waythere, Inc. was approximately $5.9 million.

(11) Commitments and Contingencies 

(a) Leases 

Abandoned Leased Facilities : During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, we recorded lease
impairment charges of approximately $0.4 million due to revisions in sublease assumptions for
previously abandoned facilities. During the first half of fiscal year 2005, we recorded $1.2
million of lease impairment charges, resulting from costs associated with the abandonment of
administrative space at 10 Maguire Road, in Lexington, MA, an adjustment relating to a lease
modification for one of our Syracuse facilities and revisions in assumptions associated with other
impaired facilities.

All lease impairment expense amounts recorded are included in the captions  Impairment,
restructuring and other  in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Details of activity in the lease exit accrual by facility for the six months ended January 31,
2006 are as follows (in thousands):

We are obligated under various capital and operating leases for facilities and equipment.
Future minimum annual rental commitments under capital and operating leases and other commitments
are as follows as of January 31, 2006:

16

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
  (Unaudited)  

(a) 
       
     Amount includes the outstanding balance on the accounts receivable financing line as of January
31, 2006. 

(b) 
       
     Amounts do not include future interest accruing on the accounts receivable financing line, as interest rate is
variable. 

(c) 
       
     Amounts exclude certain common area maintenance and other property charges that are not included
within the lease payment. 

(d) 
       
     On February 9, 2005, the Company entered into an Assignment and Assumption Agreement with a Las
Vegas-based company, whereby this company purchased from us the right to use 29,000 square feet in
our Las Vegas data center, along with the infrastructure and equipment associated with this space.
In exchange, we received an initial payment of $600,000 and will receive $55,682 per month over two
years. This agreement shifts the responsibility for management of the data center and its
employees, along with the maintenance of the facility s infrastructure, to this Las Vegas-based
company. Pursuant to this Agreement, we have subleased back 2,000 square feet of space, allowing
us to continue servicing our existing customer base in this market. Commitments related to property
leases include an amount related to the 2,000 square feet sublease. 

With respect to the property lease commitments listed above, certain cash is restricted
pursuant to terms of lease agreements with landlords. At January 31, 2006, this restricted cash of
approximately $1.2 million on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet consisted of
certificates of deposit and a treasury note and are recorded at cost, which approximates fair
value.

(b) Legal Matters 

IPO Securities Litigation 

On or about June 13, 2001, Stuart Werman and Lynn McFarlane filed a lawsuit against us,
BancBoston Robertson Stephens, an underwriter of our initial public offering in October 1999, Joel
B. Rosen, our then chief executive officer, and Kenneth W. Hale, our then chief financial officer.
The suit was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The
suit generally alleges that the defendants violated federal securities laws by not disclosing
certain actions allegedly taken by Robertson Stephens in connection with our initial public
offering. The suit alleges specifically that Robertson Stephens, in exchange for the allocation to
its customers of shares of our common stock sold in our initial public offering, solicited and
received from its customers  agreements to purchase additional shares of our common stock in the
aftermarket at pre-determined prices. The suit seeks unspecified monetary damages and certification
of a plaintiff class consisting of all persons who acquired shares of our common stock between
October 22, 1999 and December 6, 2000. Three other substantially similar lawsuits were filed
between June 15, 2001 and July 10, 2001 by Moses Mayer (filed June 15, 2001), Barry Feldman (filed
June 19, 2001), and Binh Nguyen (filed July 10, 2001). Robert E. Eisenberg, our president at the
time of the initial public offering in 1999, also was named as a defendant in the Nguyen lawsuit.

On or about June 21, 2001, David Federico filed in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York a lawsuit against us, Mr. Rosen, Mr. Hale, Robertson Stephens and
other underwriter defendants including J.P. Morgan Chase, First Albany Companies, Inc., Bank of
America Securities, LLC, Bear Stearns   Co., Inc., B.T. Alex. Brown, Inc., Chase Securities, Inc.,
CIBC World Markets, Credit Suisse First Boston Corp., Dain Rauscher, Inc., Deutsche Bank
Securities, Inc., The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., J.P. Morgan   Co., J.P. Morgan Securities, Lehman
Brothers, Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., Morgan Stanley Dean Witter   Co.,

Robert Fleming, Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. The suit generally alleges that the defendants
violated the anti-trust laws and the federal securities laws by conspiring and agreeing to raise
and increase
the compensation received by the underwriter defendants by requiring those who received allocation
of initial public offering stock to agree to purchase shares of manipulated securities in the
after-market of the initial public offering at escalating price levels designed to inflate the
price of the manipulated stock, thus artificially creating an appearance of demand and high prices
for that stock, and initial public offering stock in general, leading to further stock offerings.
The suit also alleges that the defendants arranged for the underwriter defendants to receive
undisclosed and excessive brokerage commissions and that, as a consequence, the underwriter
defendants successfully increased investor interest in the manipulated initial public offering of
securities and increased the underwriter defendants  individual and collective

17

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
  (Unaudited)  

underwritings, compensation, and revenue. The suit further alleges that the defendants violated the
federal securities laws by issuing and selling securities pursuant to the initial public offering
without disclosing to investors that the underwriter defendants in the offering, including the lead
underwriters, had solicited and received excessive and undisclosed commissions from certain
investors. The suit seeks unspecified monetary damages and certification of a plaintiff class
consisting of all persons who acquired shares of our common stock between October 22, 1999 and June
12, 2001.

Those five cases, along with lawsuits naming more than 300 other issuers and over 50
investment banks which have been sued in substantially similar lawsuits, have been assigned to the
Honorable Shira A. Scheindlin (the  Court ) for all pretrial purposes (the  IPO Securities
Litigation ). On September 6, 2001, the Court entered an order consolidating the five individual
cases involving us and designating Werman v. NaviSite, Inc., et al., Civil Action No. 01-CV-5374 as
the lead case. A consolidated, amended complaint was filed thereafter on April 19, 2002 (the  Class
Action Litigation ) on behalf of plaintiffs Arvid Brandstrom and Tony Tse against underwriter
defendants Robertson Stephens (as successor-in-interest to BancBoston), BancBoston, J.P. Morgan (as
successor-in-interest to Hambrecht   Quist), Hambrecht   Quist and First Albany and against us and
Messrs. Rosen, Hale and Eisenberg (collectively, the  NaviSite Defendants ). Plaintiffs uniformly
allege that all defendants, including the NaviSite Defendants, violated the federal securities laws
(i.e., Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act, Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and
Rule 10b-5) by issuing and selling our common stock pursuant to the October 22, 1999 initial public
offering, without disclosing to investors that some of the underwriters of the offering, including
the lead underwriters, had solicited and received extensive and undisclosed agreements from certain
investors to purchase aftermarket shares at pre-arranged, escalating prices and also to receive
additional commissions and/or other compensation from those investors. At this time, plaintiffs
have not specified the amount of damages they are seeking in the Class Action Litigation.

Between July and September 2002, the parties to the IPO Securities Litigation briefed motions
to dismiss filed by the underwriter defendants and the issuer defendants, including NaviSite. On
November 1, 2002, the Court held oral argument on the motions to dismiss. The plaintiffs have since
agreed to dismiss the claims against Messrs. Rosen, Hale and Eisenberg without prejudice, in return
for their agreement to toll any statute of limitations applicable to those claims. By stipulation
entered by the Court on November 18, 2002, Messrs. Rosen, Hale and Eisenberg were dismissed without
prejudice from the Class Action Litigation. On February 19, 2003, an opinion and order was issued
on defendants  motion to dismiss the IPO Securities Litigation, essentially denying the motions to
dismiss of all 55 underwriter defendants and of 185 of the 301 issuer defendants, including
NaviSite.

On June 30, 2003, our Board of Directors considered and authorized us to negotiate a
settlement of the pending Class Action Litigation substantially consistent with a memorandum of
understanding negotiated among proposed class plaintiffs, the issuer defendants and the insurers
for such issuer defendants. Among other contingencies, any such settlement would be subject to
approval by the Court. Plaintiffs filed on June 14, 2004, a motion for preliminary approval of the
Stipulation And Agreement Of Settlement With Defendant Issuers And Individuals (the  Preliminary
Approval Motion ). On February 15, 2005, the Court approved the Preliminary Approval Motion in a
written opinion which detailed the terms of the settlement stipulation, its accompanying documents
and schedules, the proposed class notice and, with a modification to the bar order to be entered,
the proposed settlement order and judgment. A further conference was held on April 13, 2005, at
which time the Court considered additional submissions but did not make final determinations
regarding the exact form, substance and program for notifying the proposed settlement class. On
August 31, 2005, the Court entered a further Preliminary Order In Connection with Settlement
Proceedings (the  Preliminary Approval Order ), which granted preliminary approval to the issuer s
settlement with the Plaintiffs in the IPO Securities Litigation. In connection with the Preliminary
Approval Order, the Court scheduled a Fed. R. Civ. P. 23 fairness hearing for April 24, 2006 in
order to consider whether to enter final approval of the settlement. Any requests for exclusion or
objections to the settlement are to be filed by March 24, 2006. If the proposed issuers  settlement
is completed and then approved by the Court without further modifications to its material terms, we
and the participating insurers acting on our behalf may be responsible for providing funding of
approximately $3.4 million towards the total amount plaintiffs are guaranteed by the settlement to
recover in the IPO Securities Litigation. The amount of the guarantee allocable to us could be
reduced or eliminated in its entirety in the event that plaintiffs are able to recover more than
the total amount of such overall guarantee from settlements with or judgments obtained against the
non-settling defendants. Even if no additional recovery is obtained from any of the non-settling
defendants, the settlement amount allocable to us is expected to be fully covered by our existing
insurance policies and is not expected to have a material effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We believe that the allegations against us are without merit and, if the settlement is not finalized, we intend to

18

Table of Contents   

NAVISITE, INC.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
  (Unaudited)  

vigorously defend against the plaintiffs  claims. Due to the inherent
uncertainty of litigation, we are not able to predict the possible outcome of the suits and their
ultimate effect, if any, on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Wrongful Termination Claim 

This lawsuit for wrongful termination was filed in the Superior Court of the State of
California, Santa Clara County (Case No. 104CV031471) against NaviSite, Inc. and one of its former
employees. Plaintiffs were two female former employees of NaviSite who were terminated from their
employment in 2004 as part of a reduction in force. One plaintiff alleged unlawful discrimination
based on age and gender, and the other plaintiff alleged unlawful discrimination based on gender
and retaliation for taking maternity leave. NaviSite s management and the co-named former employee
denied all claims and vigorously defended the lawsuit. On November 1, 2005, NaviSite entered into a
settlement agreement with both of the plaintiffs, pursuant to which NaviSite is required to make an
aggregate payment of $500,000, payable over time. As of July 31, 2005, we had accrued $500,000 for
this settlement, of which we have paid $300,000 in the second quarter and $100,000 in the third
quarter of fiscal year 2006. The balance, as of January 31,
2006, is included in  Accrued expenses and other current
liabilities 
on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.

(12) Income Tax Expense 

The Company recorded $0.3 million and $0.6 million of deferred income tax expense during the
three and six months ended January 31, 2006, respectively, as compared to $0.8 million and $0.8
million of deferred income tax expense during the comparable periods of fiscal year 2005. No income
tax benefit was recorded for the losses incurred due to a valuation allowance recognized against
deferred tax assets. The deferred tax expense resulted from tax goodwill amortization related to
the Surebridge acquisition and the acquisition of Applied Theory Corporation by ClearBlue
Technologies Management, Inc. The acquired goodwill and intangible assets for both acquisitions are
amortizable for tax purposes over fifteen years. For financial statement purposes, goodwill is not
amortized for either acquisition but is tested for impairment at
least annually. Tax amortization of
goodwill results in a taxable temporary difference, which will not reverse until the goodwill is
impaired or at least written off. The resulting taxable temporary difference may not be offset by deductible
temporary differences currently available, such as net operating loss carryforwards which expire
within a definite period.

19

Table of Contents   

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

This Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, that involve risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical
information provided herein are forward-looking statements and may contain information about
financial results, economic conditions, trends and known uncertainties. Our actual results could
differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of
factors, which include those discussed in this section and elsewhere in this report under the
heading  Certain Risk Factors that May Affect Future Results  and the risks discussed in our other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management s analysis, judgment, belief
or expectation only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly revise these
forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date hereof.

Overview 

NaviSite provides IT hosting, outsourcing and professional services for mid- to
large-sized organizations. Leveraging our set of technologies and subject matter expertise, we
deliver cost-effective, flexible solutions that provide responsive and predictable levels of
service for our clients  business. NaviSite provides services throughout the information technology
lifecycle. The Company is dedicated to delivering quality services and meets rigorous standards,
including SAS 70, Microsoft Gold, and Oracle Certified Partner certifications.

We believe that by leveraging economies of scale utilizing our global delivery approach,
industry best practices and process automation, our services enable our customers to achieve
significant savings. In addition, we are able to leverage our application services platform,
NaviView TM , to enable software to be delivered on-demand over the Internet, providing an
alternative delivery model to the traditional licensed software model. As the platform provider for
an increasing number of independent software vendors, we enable solutions and services to a wider
and growing customer base.

Our services include: 

Hosting Services 

Managed services    Support provided for hardware and software located in a data center.
Services include business continuity and disaster recovery, connectivity, content
distribution, database administration and performance tuning, desktop support, hardware
management, monitoring, network management, security management, server and operating
system management and storage management. 

Application management services    Defined services provided for specific packaged
applications that are incremental to managed services. Services can include monitoring,
diagnostics and problem resolution. Frequently sold as a follow-on to a professional
services project. 

Colocation    Physical space offered in a data center. In addition to providing the
physical space, NaviSite offers environmental support, specified power with back-up power
generation and network connectivity options. 

Software as a Service    Enablement of Software as a Service to the ISV community. 

Outsourcing Services 

Planning Services    Services include IT assessment, enterprise architecture planning,
Web strategy, performance assessment and tuning. 

Development Services    Services include eBusiness/Web solutions, enterprise
integration, business intelligence, content management and user interface design 

20

Table of Contents   

Management Services    Services include custom application management and remote
infrastructure management. 

Professional Services 

For leading enterprise software applications such as Oracle, PeopleSoft, JD Edwards and
Siebel Systems, NaviSite Professional Services helps organizations plan, implement,
maintain, and 

Optimize scalable, business-driven software solutions. Specific services include
planning, implementation, maintenance, optimization and compliance services. 

We provide these services to a range of vertical industries, including financial services,
healthcare and pharmaceutical, manufacturing and distribution, publishing, media and
communications, business services, public sector and software, through our direct sales force and
sales channel relationships.

Our managed application services are facilitated by our proprietary NaviView TM 
collaborative application management platform. Our NaviView TM  platform enables us to
provide highly efficient, effective and customized management of enterprise applications and
information technology. Comprised of a suite of third-party and proprietary products,
NaviView TM  provides tools designed specifically to meet the needs of customers who
outsource their IT needs. We also use this platform for electronic software distribution for
software vendors and to enable software to be delivered on-demand over the Internet, providing an
alternative delivery model to the traditional licensed software model.

We believe that the combination of NaviView TM  with our physical infrastructure and
technical staff gives us a unique ability to provision on-demand application services for software
providers for use by their customers. NaviView TM  is application and operating platform
neutral as its on-demand provisioning capability is not dependent on the individual software
application. Designed to enable enterprise software applications to be provisioned and used as an
on-demand solution, the NaviView TM  technology allows us to offer new solutions to our
software vendors and new products to our current customers.

We currently operate in 14 data centers in the United States and one data center in the United
Kingdom. We believe that our data centers and infrastructure have the capacity necessary to expand
our business for the foreseeable future. Our services combine our developed infrastructure with
established processes and procedures for delivering hosting and application management services.
Our high availability infrastructure, high performance monitoring systems, and proactive and
collaborative problem resolution and change management processes are designed to identify and
address potentially crippling problems before they are able to disrupt our customers  operations.

We
currently service approximately 930 hosted customers. Our hosted customers typically enter
into service agreements for a term of one to three years, which provide for monthly payment
installments, providing us with a base of recurring revenue. Our revenue increases by adding new
customers or additional services to existing customers. Our overall base of recurring revenue is
affected by new customers, renewals and terminations of agreements with existing customers.

In recent years, we have grown through business acquisitions and have restructured our
operations. Specifically, in December 2002, we completed a common control merger with CBTM; in
February 2003, we acquired Avasta; in April 2003, we acquired Conxion; in May 2003, we acquired
assets of Interliant; in August 2003 and April 2004, we completed a common control merger with
certain subsidiaries of CBT; and in June 2004, we acquired substantially all of the assets and
liabilities of Surebridge, Inc. (now known as Waythere, Inc.). In January 2005, we formed NaviSite
India Private Limited, a New Delhi-based operation which is intended to expand our international
capability. NaviSite India will provide a range of software services, including design and
development of custom and e-commerce solutions, application management, problem resolution
management and the deployment and management of IT networks, customer specific infrastructure and
data center infrastructure. We expect to make additional acquisitions to take advantage of our
available capacity, which will have significant effects on our financial results in the future.

The audit report on our fiscal year 2005 consolidated financial statements from KPMG LLP, our
independent registered public accounting firm, contains KPMG s opinion that our recurring losses
from operations since inception and accumulated deficit, as well as other factors, raise
substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a

21

Table of Contents   

going concern. While we cannot give any assurance that we will continue as a going concern, we
believe that we have developed and are implementing an operational plan that aligns our cost
structure with our projected revenue growth.

Results of Operations for the Three and Six Months Ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 

The following table sets forth the percentage relationships of certain items from our
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as a percentage of total revenue.

Comparison of the Three and Six Months Ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 

Revenue 

We derive our revenue from managed IT services, including hosting, colocation and application
services comprised of a variety of service offerings and professional services, to mid-market
companies and organizations, including mid-sized companies, divisions of large multi-national
companies and government agencies.

Total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2006 decreased 7.3% to approximately
$26.3 million from approximately $28.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005.
Approximately $1.1 million of the $2.1 million decrease in revenue was attributable to the sale in
July 2005 of our Microsoft Business Solutions Software Resell and Professional Services Practice
with the remaining decrease the result of net lost customer revenue. Revenue from related parties
during the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 totaled $41,000 and

22

Table of Contents   

$35,000, respectively.

Total revenue for the six months ended January 31, 2006 decreased 9.7% to approximately $51.7
million from approximately $57.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005. The sale of the
Microsoft Business Solutions Software Resell and Professional Services Practice accounted
for $2.4 million of the overall reduction in revenue of $5.5 million, with the remaining decrease
in revenue attributable to net lost customer revenue. Revenue from related parties during the six
months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 totaled $71,000 and $68,000, respectively.

One unrelated customer accounted for 10% and 8% of our total revenue during the first half of
fiscal year 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Cost of Revenue 

Cost of revenue consists primarily of salaries and benefits for operations personnel,
bandwidth fees and related Internet connectivity charges, equipment costs and related depreciation
and costs to run our data centers, such as rent and utilities.

Total cost of revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2006, decreased approximately
9.6% to $18.7 million from approximately $20.7 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005.
As a percentage of revenue, total cost of revenue decreased from 72.8% of revenue for the three
months ended January 31, 2005 to 71.1% of revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2006. The
decrease in cost of revenue of $2.0 million resulted primarily from decreased salary expense
resulting from a reduction in headcount, a decrease in hardware and software maintenance costs,
costs related to the sale of our MBS practice, depreciation and amortization and facilities related
charges, partially offset by the effect of implementing SFAS 123R. During the three months ended
January 31, 2005, we recorded a $34,000 lease abandonment charge related to our data center space
located at Westwood Center, Vienna, VA as a component of total cost of revenue. No such charge was
recorded during the same period of fiscal year 2006.

Total cost of revenue for the six months ended January 31, 2006, decreased approximately 16.4%
to $36.4 million from approximately $43.5 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005. As a
percentage of revenue, total cost of revenue decreased from 75.9% of revenue for the six months
ended January 31, 2005 to 70.3% of revenue for the six months ended January 31, 2006. The decrease
in cost of revenue of $7.1 million resulted primarily from decreased salary expense resulting from
a reduction in headcount, a decrease in hardware and software maintenance costs, costs related to
the sale of our MBS practice, depreciation and amortization and facilities related charges,
partially offset by the effect of implementing SFAS 123R. During the first half of fiscal year
2005, we recorded a $34,000 lease abandonment charge related to our data center space located at
Westwood Center, Vienna, VA as a component of total cost of revenue. No such charge was recorded
during the same period of fiscal year 2006.

Gross Profit 

Gross profit of $7.6 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006 decreased
approximately $0.1 million, or 1.3%, from a gross profit of approximately $7.7 million for the
three months ended January 31, 2005. Gross profit for the second fiscal quarter of 2006 represented
28.9% of total revenue, as compared to 27.2% of total revenue for the second fiscal quarter of
2005.

Gross profit of $15.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006 increased
approximately $1.6 million, or 11.5%, from a gross profit of approximately $13.8 million for the
six months ended January 31, 2005. Gross profit for the first half of fiscal year 2006 represented
29.7% of total revenue, as compared to 24.1% of total revenue for the first half of fiscal year
2005. The gross profit increase was due to the decline in cost of revenue.

Operating Expenses 

Selling and Marketing.  Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of salaries and
related benefits, commissions and marketing expenses such as advertising, traveling, product
literature, trade show, and marketing and direct mail programs.

Selling and marketing expense increased 22.3% to approximately $4.0 million, or 15.0% of total
revenue, during

23

Table of Contents   

the three months ended January 31, 2006 from approximately $3.2 million, or 11.4% of total revenue,
during the three months ended January 31, 2005. The increase of approximately $0.7 million resulted
primarily from increased sales
commissions, the increase of marketing program
spending and the effect of implementing SFAS 123R, partially offset by a decrease in headcount related expenses.

Selling and marketing expense increased 9.3% to approximately $7.2 million, or 13.9% of total
revenue, during the six months ended January 31, 2006 from approximately $6.6 million, or 11.5% of
total revenue, during the six months ended January 31, 2005. The increase of approximately $0.6
million resulted primarily from increased sales commissions, the increase of marketing
program spending and the effect of implementing SFAS 123R, partially offset by a decrease in headcount related expenses.

General and Administrative.  General and administrative expense includes the costs of
financial, human resources, IT and administrative personnel, professional services, bad debt and
corporate overhead.

General and administrative expense decreased 14.5% to approximately $5.1 million, or 19.4% of
total revenue, during the three months ended January 31, 2006 from approximately $6.0 million, or
21.0% of total revenue, during the three months ended January 31, 2005. The decrease of
approximately $0.9 million was primarily the result of decreased salary expense resulting
from a decreased headcount and decrease in bad debt expense, partially offset by the effect of
implementing SFAS 123R.

General and administrative expense decreased 11.5% to approximately $11.0 million, or 21.2% of
total revenue, during the six months ended January 31, 2006 from approximately $12.4 million, or
21.7% of total revenue, during the six months ended January 31, 2005. The decrease of approximately
$1.4 million was primarily the result of decreased salary expense resulting from a decreased
headcount and decrease in bad debt expense, partially offset by the effect of implementing SFAS
123R.

Operating Expenses   Impairment, Restructuring and Other 

Costs associated with the abandonment of leased facilities and the impairment of property and
equipment included in impairment, restructuring and other expense within operating expenses were
approximately $0.4 million during the three months ended January 31, 2006, as compared to
approximately $0.5 million during the three months ended January 31, 2005. The $0.4 million and
$0.5 million charge during the second fiscal quarter of 2006 and 2005 related to revised
assumptions associated with our impaired facilities.

Costs associated with the abandonment of leased facilities and the impairment of property and
equipment included in impairment, restructuring and other expense within operating expenses were
approximately $0.4 million during the six months ended January 31, 2006, as compared to
approximately $1.5 million during the six months ended January 31, 2005. The $0.4 million charge
recorded during the first half of fiscal year 2006 related to revised assumptions associated with
our impaired facilities. The $1.5 million charge recorded during the first half of fiscal year 2005
related to revised assumptions associated with our impaired facilities, the abandonment of an
administrative facility and an impairment charge for property and equipment, consisting primarily
of leasehold improvements, relating to the same location.

Interest Income 

During the three and six months ended January 31, 2006, interest income increased 73.3% and
92.9%, respectively, from the comparable prior periods to approximately $26,000 and $54,000,
respectively. The increase of $11,000 and $26,000 for the three and six month periods is mainly due
to an increase in the rate of interest on our security deposits.

Interest Expense 

During the three and six months ended January 31, 2006, interest expense increased 4.6% and 4.4%, respectively,
from the comparable prior year periods to approximately $2.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively. The increase of
$0.1 million and $0.2 million for the current three and six month periods is primarily related to the addition of capital leases
and an increase in the rate of interest on our financing line with SVB.

24

Table of Contents   

Income Tax Expense 

The Company recorded $0.3 million and $0.6 million of deferred income tax expense during the
three and six months ended January 31, 2006, respectively, as compared to $0.8 million and $0.8
million of deferred income tax expense during the comparable periods of fiscal year 2005. No income
tax benefit was recorded for the losses incurred due to a valuation allowance recognized against
deferred tax assets. The deferred tax expense resulted from tax goodwill amortization related to
the Surebridge acquisition and the acquisition of Applied Theory Corporation by ClearBlue
Technologies Management, Inc. The acquired goodwill and intangible assets for both acquisitions are
amortizable for tax purposes over fifteen years. For financial statement purposes, goodwill is not
amortized for either acquisition but is tested for impairment at
least annually. Tax amortization of
goodwill results in a taxable temporary difference, which will not reverse until the goodwill is
impaired or written off. The resulting taxable temporary difference may not be offset by deductible
temporary differences currently available, such as net operating loss carryforwards which expire
within a definite period.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

As of January 31, 2006, our principal sources of liquidity included cash and cash equivalents
and our financing agreement with Silicon Valley Bank (SVB). We had a working capital deficit of
$80.6 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $1.9 million at January 31, 2006, as compared
to a working capital deficit of $77.6 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $6.8 million,
at July 31, 2005.

The total net change in cash and cash equivalents for the six months ended January 31, 2006 was a
decrease of $4.9 million. The primary uses of cash during the six months ended January 31, 2006
included $0.5 million of cash used for operating activities, $2.3 million for purchases of property
and equipment and approximately $2.5 million in repayments on notes payable and capital lease
obligations. Our primary sources of cash during the six months ended January 31, 2006 were $0.4
million in proceeds from a note payable. Net cash used for operating activities of $0.5 million
during the six months ended January 31, 2006, resulted primarily from funding our $7.4 million net
loss and $2.8 million of net changes in operating assets and liabilities, which was partially
offset by non-cash charges of approximately $9.7 million. At January 31, 2006, we had an
accumulated deficit of $463.4 million, and have reported losses from operations since
incorporation. At July 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $455.9 million.

Our accounts receivable financing line with SVB allows for maximum borrowing of $20.4 million
and expires on April 29, 2006. On January 31, 2006, we had an outstanding balance under the amended
agreement of $20.4 million. Borrowings are based on monthly recurring revenue. We are required to
prepare and deliver a written request for an advance of up to three times the value of total
recurring monthly revenue, calculated to be monthly revenue (including revenue from The New York
State Department of Labor) less professional services revenue. SVB may then provide an advance of
85% of such value (or such other percentage as the bank may determine). The interest rate under the
amended agreement is variable and is currently calculated at the bank s published  prime rate  plus
4.0%. The financing agreement also contains certain affirmative and negative covenants and is
secured by substantially all of our assets, tangible and intangible. Following the completion of
certain equity or debt financings, and provided we continue to meet certain ratios, the interest
rate shall be reduced to the bank s prime rate plus 1.0%. In no event, however, will the bank s
prime rate be less than 4.25%. The accounts receivable financing line at July 31, 2005 is reported
net of the remaining value ascribed to the related warrants of $53,000.

At January 31, 2006, the Company had $1.2 million in outstanding standby letters of credit,
issued in connection with facility and equipment lease agreements, which are 100% cash
collateralized. Cash subject to collateral requirements has been recorded as restricted cash of
which $1.0 million and $1.1 million is classified as non-current on our balance sheet at January
31, 2006 and July 31, 2005, respectively.

We anticipate that we will continue to incur net losses in the future. We have taken several
actions we believe will allow us to continue as a going concern, including closing and integrating
strategic acquisitions, making changes to our senior management and bringing costs more in line
with projected revenue. We will need to find sources of additional financing, or refinance or
restructure our existing indebtedness, in order to remain a going concern. In September 2005, we
engaged financial advisors to assist us in refinancing our debt and, while there can be no
assurances that we will be successful in our refinancing efforts, we believe we will conclude this
process prior to our indebtedness coming due. We are obligated to use a significant portion of any
proceeds raised in an equity or debt financing or by sales of assets to make payments on the notes
payable to Waythere, Inc. (formerly known as Surebridge, Inc.), depending on the total net proceeds
received by us in the financing (see Note 10(e)).

25

Table of Contents   

Our operating forecast incorporates growth projections from industry analysts for the markets
in which we participate. Our forecast also incorporates the future cash flow benefits expected from
our continued efforts to increase efficiencies and reduce redundancies. Nonetheless, our forecast
includes the need to raise additional funds. Our cash flow estimates are based upon attaining
certain levels of sales, maintaining budgeted levels of operating expenses, collections of accounts
receivable and maintaining our current borrowing line with SVB among other assumptions, including
the improvement in the overall macroeconomic environment. However, there can be no
assurance that we will be able to meet such assumptions. Our operating forecast does not depend
upon our ability to make additional acquisitions which could be impacted by our current stock
price. Our sales estimate includes revenue from new and existing customers, which may not be
realized, and we may be required to further reduce expenses if budgeted sales are not attained. We
may be unsuccessful in reducing expenses in proportion to any shortfall in projected sales and our
estimate of collections of accounts receivable may be hindered by our customers  ability to pay. In
addition, we are currently involved in various pending and potential legal proceedings. While we
believe that the allegations against us in each of these matters are without merit, and/or that we
have a meritorious defense in each, we are not able to predict the final outcomes of any of these
matters and the effect, if any, on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in any of these matters, we could be required to pay
substantial amounts of cash to the other parties. The amount and timing of any such payments could
adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections: A
Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3.  This statement changes the requirements for the
accounting for and reporting of a voluntary change in accounting principle, and also applies to
instances when an accounting pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions. The
statement replaces the previous requirement that voluntary changes be recognized by including the
cumulative effect of the change in net income of the period of the change. The statement requires
retrospective application of a new accounting principle to prior periods  financial statements,
unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect
of the change. The statement is effective for changes and corrections made in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not expect the adoption of the statement to
have a material effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation (FIN) No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations   an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143.  This Interpretation clarifies
the timing of liability recognition for legal obligations associated with an asset retirement when
the timing and (or) method of settling the obligation are conditional on a future event that may or
may not be within the control of the entity. FIN No. 47 is effective no later than the end of
fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. We do not believe the adoption of FIN No. 47 will have
a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS123(R)-3, Transition Election to Accounting for the
Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards. This FSP requires an entity to follow either the
transition guidance for the additional-paid-in-capital pool as prescribed in SFAS No. 123(R),
Share-Based Payment, or the alternative transition method as described in the FSP. An entity that
adopts SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective application may make a one-time election to
adopt the transition method described in this FSP. An entity may take up to one year from the later
of its initial adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) or the effective date of this FSP to evaluate its
available transition alternatives and make its one-time election. This FSP became effective in
November 2005. We continue to evaluate the impact that the adoption of this FSP could have on our
financial statements.

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments 

We are obligated under various capital and operating leases for facilities and equipment.
Future minimum annual rental commitments under capital and operating leases and other commitments,
as of January 31, 2006, are as follows:

26

Table of Contents   

(a) 
       
     Amount includes the outstanding balance on the accounts receivable financing line as of January 31, 2006. 

(b) 
       
     Amounts do not include future interest accruing on the accounts receivable financing line, as interest rate is
variable. 

(c) 
       
     Amounts exclude certain common area maintenance and other property charges that are not included
within the lease payment. 

(d) 

On February 9, 2005, the Company entered into an Assignment and Assumption Agreement with a Las
Vegas-based company, whereby this company purchased from us the right to use 29,000 square feet in
our Las Vegas data center, along with the infrastructure and equipment associated with this space.
In exchange, we received an initial payment of $600,000 and will receive $55,682 per month over two
years. This agreement shifts the responsibility for management of the data center and its
employees, along with the maintenance of the facility s infrastructure, to this Las Vegas-based
company. Pursuant to this Agreement, we have subleased back 2,000 square feet of space, allowing
us to continue servicing our existing customer base in this market. Commitments related to property
leases include an amount related to the 2,000 square feet sublease. 

With respect to the property lease commitments listed above, certain cash is restricted
pursuant to terms of lease agreements with landlords. At January 31, 2006, this restricted cash of
approximately $1.2 million on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet consisted of
certificates of deposit and a treasury note and are recorded at cost, which approximates fair
value.

Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements 

The Company does not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements other than
operating leases, which are recorded in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Critical Accounting Policies 

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. As such, management is required to
make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that it believes are reasonable based on the
information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses for the periods presented. The significant accounting policies which management believes
are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results
include revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts and impairment of long-lived assets.
Management reviews the estimates on a regular basis and makes adjustments based on historical
experiences, current conditions and future expectations. The reviews are performed regularly and
adjustments are made as required by current available information. We believe these estimates are
reasonable, but actual results could differ from these estimates.

Revenue Recognition.  Revenue consists of monthly fees for Web site and Internet custom and
packaged application management, hosting, colocation and professional services. The Company also
derives a nonmaterial amount of revenue from the sale of software and related maintenance contracts. Reimbursable expenses
charged to clients are included in revenue and cost of revenue. Application management, hosting and
colocation revenue (other than installation fees) is billed and recognized over the term of the
contract, generally one to three years, based on actual usage. Payments received in advance of
providing services are deferred until the period such services are provided. Revenue from
professional services, application management, hosting and colocation revenue is recognized on
either a time-and material basis as the services are performed or under the percentage of
completion method for fixed-price contracts. We generally sell our professional services under
contracts with terms ranging from one to five years. When current contract estimates indicate that
a loss is probable, a provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the current period.
Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the estimated service costs of the
contract exceed

27

Table of Contents   

the estimated revenue that will be generated by the contract. Unbilled accounts receivable
represents revenue for services performed that have not been billed. Billings in excess of revenue
recognized are recorded as deferred revenue until the applicable revenue recognition criteria are
met. Revenue from the sale of software is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement
exists, the product has been delivered, the fees are fixed and determinable and collection of the
resulting receivable is reasonably assured. In instances where the Company also provides
application management and hosting services in conjunction with the sale of software, software
revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the expected customer relationship period. If we
determine that collection of a fee is not reasonably assured, we defer the fee and recognize
revenue at the time collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash.

Existing customers are subject to ongoing credit evaluations based on payment history and
other factors. If it is determined subsequent to our initial evaluation and at any time during the
arrangement that collectability is not reasonably assured, revenue is recognized as cash is
received. Due to the nature of our service arrangements, we provide written notice of termination
of services, typically 10 days in advance of disconnecting a customer. Revenue for services
rendered during this notification period is generally recognized on a cash basis as collectability
is not considered probable at the time the services are provided.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.  We perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers 
financial conditions and generally do not require collateral or other security against trade
receivables. We make estimates of the uncollectability of our accounts receivables and maintain an
allowance for doubtful accounts for potential credit losses. We specifically analyze accounts
receivable and consider historical bad debts, customer and industry

concentrations, customer credit-worthiness, current economic trends and changes in our customer
payment patterns when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. We
specifically reserve for 100% of the balance of customer accounts deemed uncollectible. For all
other customer accounts, we reserve for 20% of the balance over 90 days old and 2% of all other
customer balances. Changes in economic conditions or the financial viability of our customers may
result in additional provisions for doubtful accounts in excess of our current estimate.

Impairment of Long-lived Assets.  We review our long-lived assets, subject to amortization and
depreciation, including customer lists and property and equipment, for impairment whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be
recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an interim impairment review include:

significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future
operating results; 

significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy of
our overall business; 

significant negative industry or economic trends; 

significant declines in our stock price for a sustained period; and 

our market capitalization relative to net book value. 

Recoverability is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future
undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the assets were considered to be
impaired, the impairment to be recognized would be measured by the amount by which the carrying
value of the assets exceeds their fair value. Fair value is determined based on discounted cash
flows or appraised values, depending on the nature of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are
valued at the lower of the carrying amount or their fair value less disposal costs. Property and
equipment is primarily comprised of leasehold improvements, computer and office equipment and
software licenses. Intangible assets consist of customer lists.

We review the valuation of our goodwill in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. If an event
or circumstance indicates that it is more likely than not an impairment loss has been incurred, we
review the valuation of goodwill on an interim basis. An impairment loss is recognized to the
extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. Impairment losses are
recognized in operations

28

Table of Contents   

Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results 

We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which
are beyond our control. Forward-looking statements in this report and those made from time to time
by us through our senior management are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements concerning the expected future
revenues, earnings or financial results or concerning project plans, performance, or development of
products and services, as well as other estimates related to future operations are necessarily only
estimates of future results and we cannot assure you that actual results will not materially differ
from expectations. Forward-looking statements represent management s current expectations and are
inherently uncertain. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. If
any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results
could be materially adversely affected.

We
have negative working capital and significant indebtedness that must
be repaid in the first half of calendar
2006; therefore, we need to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable
terms, or at all.   We need to raise additional capital and it may not be available on favorable
terms or at all. As of January 31, 2006, we had approximately $1.9 million of cash and cash
equivalents and a working capital deficit of approximately $80.6 million. As of January 31, 2006,
our outstanding balance under our Silicon Valley Bank amended accounts receivable financing
agreement, which matures on April 29, 2006, was $20.4 million. As of January 31, 2006, our
outstanding principal and accrued interest under the promissory notes we issued to Waythere, Inc.
(in connection with the Surebridge acquisition), which mature on June 10, 2006, was approximately
$40.5 million. As of January 31, 2006, our outstanding principal and accrued interest owed to
Atlantic Investors, LLC, which matures upon the earlier to occur of April 3, 2006 or five business
days after our receipt of net proceeds from a financing or a sale of assets of at least $13.0
million, after our satisfaction of the mandatory prepayment obligations under the promissory notes
issued to Waythere, was approximately $3.7 million. As of January 31, 2006, our outstanding
principal and accrued interest owed to the AppliedTheory Estate, which is due on June 13, 2006, was
approximately $6.3 million. If we do not raise sufficient capital to repay our indebtedness or, if
we do not refinance or restructure our indebtedness, a substantial amount of which becomes due and
payable during calendar year 2006, our business likely will not continue as a going concern.

We have a history of losses and may never achieve or sustain profitability and may not
continue as a going concern.   We have never been profitable and may never become profitable. Since
our incorporation in 1998, we have experienced operating losses and negative cash flows for each
annual period. As of January 31, 2006, we had incurred losses since our incorporation resulting in
an accumulated deficit of approximately $463.4 million. During the fiscal quarter ended January 31,
2006, we had a net loss of approximately $4.0 million. The audit report from KPMG LLP, our
independent registered public accounting firm, relating to our fiscal year 2005 financial
statements contains KPMG s opinion that our recurring losses from operations since inception and
accumulated deficit, as well as other factors, raise substantial doubt about our ability to
continue as a going concern. We anticipate that we will continue to incur net losses in the future.
We also have significant fixed commitments, including with respect to real estate, bandwidth
commitments and equipment leases. As a result, we can give no assurance that we will achieve
profitability or be capable of sustaining profitable operations. If we are unable to reach and
sustain profitability, we risk depleting our working capital balances and our business may not
continue as a going concern.

The convertible promissory notes we issued in the Surebridge acquisition may negatively affect
our liquidity and our ability to obtain additional financing and operate and manage our business.  
On June 10, 2004, in connection with our acquisition of the Surebridge business, we issued two
convertible promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $39.3 million. We
must repay the remaining outstanding principal of the notes, with all accrued interest, no later
than June 10, 2006. On December 31, 2004, we repaid $800,000, and on August 1, 2005 we repaid
$750,000 of the outstanding principal of the notes. The principal amounts under the promissory
notes were further reduced by approximately $3.1 million as a result of certain working capital
adjustments the parties agreed to in the original asset purchase agreement. Accrued interest
related to the notes amounted to approximately $5.9 million as of January 31, 2006. If we realize
net proceeds in excess of $1.0 million from equity or debt financings or sales of assets, we are
obligated to make a payment on the notes equal to 75% of the net proceeds. The notes, or the
prepayment obligation under the notes, may adversely affect our ability to raise or retain
additional capital. If we commit an event of default under any of the promissory notes, which may
include

29

Table of Contents   

a default of obligations owed to other third parties, prior to the maturity date of the
promissory notes, then the holders of the promissory notes may declare the notes immediately due
and payable, which would adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to manage our business.
Furthermore, the promissory notes contain restrictive covenants, including with respect to our
ability to incur additional indebtedness.

Our common stockholders may suffer significant dilution in the future upon the conversion of
outstanding securities and the issuance of additional securities in potential future acquisitions
or financings.   The outstanding principal and accrued interest on the two promissory notes issued to
Waythere, Inc. (formerly known as Surebridge, Inc.) are convertible into shares of our common stock
at a conversion price of $4.642, at the election of the holder. If the promissory notes are
converted into shares of common stock, Waythere may obtain a significant equity interest in
NaviSite and other stockholders may experience significant and immediate dilution. Should Waythere
elect to convert the entire principal and accrued interest outstanding under of its two convertible
promissory notes into shares of our common stock, Waythere would own
approximately 11.7 million
shares of our common stock. Based on our capitalization as of January 31, 2006, Waythere would own
approximately 32% of our outstanding shares of common stock.

In addition, our stockholders will experience further dilution to the extent that additional
shares of our common stock are issued in potential future acquisitions or financings.

On January 22, 2004, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Registration
Statement on Form S-2 to register shares of our common stock to issue and sell in a public offering
to raise additional funds. In the event we are not successful in raising capital through this
public offering, we will be required to expense $0.7 million of associated offering expenses which
are presently included in  Prepaid expenses and other current assets  on our January 31, 2006
Consolidated Balance Sheet. If we do not complete the planned public offering, or if we do complete
the planned public offering and then use a significant portion of the net proceeds we receive to
repay debt or acquire a company, technology or product, we will need to raise additional capital
through various other equity or debt financings, and such capital may not be available on favorable
terms or at all.

Our financing agreement with Silicon Valley Bank includes various covenants and restrictions
that may negatively affect our liquidity and our ability to operate and manage our business.   As of
January 31, 2006, we owed Silicon Valley Bank approximately $24.0 million under our amended
accounts receivable financing agreement. The accounts receivable financing agreement restricts our
ability to:

create or incur additional indebtedness; 

sell, or permit any lien or security interest in, any of our assets; 

enter into or permit any material transaction with any of our affiliates; 

merge or consolidate with any other party, or acquire all or substantially all of the capital stock
or property of another party, unless, among other things, the other party is in the same, or a
similar line of business as us; 

relocate our principal executive office or add any new offices or business locations; 

change our state of formation; 

change our legal name; 

make investments; 

pay dividends or make any distribution or payment or redeem, retire or purchase our capital stock; and 

30

Table of Contents   

make or permit any payment on subordinated debt or
amend any provision in any document relating to any
subordinated debt. 

Further, the accounts receivable financing agreement requires that we maintain EBITDA of at
least $1.00 for every fiscal quarter. The agreement defines EBITDA as earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
and excluding acquisition-related costs and one-time extraordinary charges.

If we breach our accounts receivable financing agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, a default
could result. A default under the accounts receivable financing agreement may be deemed to have
occurred upon an event of default under the promissory notes issued in the Surebridge transaction.
A default, if not waived, could result in, among other things, us not being able to borrow
additional amounts from Silicon Valley Bank. In addition, all or a portion of our outstanding
amounts may become due and payable on an accelerated basis, which would adversely affect our
liquidity and our ability to manage our business. A default under the accounts receivable financing
agreement could also result in a cross-default under the promissory notes issued to Waythere in
connection with the Surebridge transaction. This would accelerate the repayment obligation on the
promissory notes and would allow Waythere to elect to convert the principal and accrued interest
into shares of our common stock. All amounts due and outstanding under the accounts receivable
financing agreement are due to be repaid in April 2006.

A significant portion of our revenue comes from one customer and, if we lost this customer, it
would have a significant adverse impact on our business results and cash flows.   The New York State
Department of Labor represented approximately 10% of our consolidated
revenue for the six months ended January 31, 2006. The New York State Department of Labor has been a long-term
customer of ours, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain this customer. We also
cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the same level of service to this customer or
that our revenue from this customer will not significantly decline in future periods. On August 16,
2005, we entered into a new agreement with the New York State Department of Labor with a two year
term which is set to expire on June 14, 2007. The New York State Department of Labor is not
obligated under our new agreement to buy a minimum amount of services from us or designate us as
its sole supplier of any particular service. Further, The New York State Department of Labor has
the right to terminate the new agreement at any time by providing us with 60 days notice. If we
were to lose this customer or suffer a material reduction in the revenue generated from this
customer, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business results and cash flows.

Atlantic Investors may have interests that conflict with the interests of our other
stockholders and, as our majority stockholder, can prevent new and existing investors from
influencing significant corporate decisions.   Atlantic Investors owns approximately 60% of our
outstanding capital stock as of January 31, 2006. In addition, Atlantic Investors holds a
promissory note in the principal amount of $3.0 million due upon the earlier to occur of April 3,
2006, and five business days after our receipt of net proceeds from a financing or a sale of assets
of at least $13.0 million, after our satisfaction of the mandatory prepayment obligations under the
promissory notes issued to Waythere. As of January 31, 2006, we had recorded accrued interest on
this note in the amount of $0.7 million. Atlantic Investors has the power, acting alone, to elect a
majority of our Board of Directors and has the ability to control our management and affairs and
determine the outcome of any corporate action requiring stockholder approval. Regardless of how our
other stockholders may vote, Atlantic Investors has the ability to control the election of
directors and to determine whether to engage in a merger, consolidation or sale of our assets and
any other significant corporate transaction. Under Delaware law, Atlantic Investors is able to
exercise its voting power by written consent, without convening a meeting of the stockholders.
Atlantic Investors  ownership of a majority of our outstanding common stock may have the effect of
delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of us or discouraging a potential acquiror
from attempting to obtain control of us, which could adversely affect the market price of our
common stock.

Members of our management group also have significant interests in Atlantic Investors, LLC,
which may create conflicts of interest.   Some of the members of our management group also serve as
members of the management group of Atlantic Investors, LLC and its affiliates. Specifically, Andrew
Ruhan, our Chairman of the Board, holds a 10% equity interest in Unicorn Worldwide Holdings
Limited, a managing member of Atlantic Investors. Arthur Becker, our President and Chief Executive
Officer and a member of our Board of Directors, is the managing member of Madison Technology LLC, a
managing member of Atlantic Investors. As a result, these officers and directors may face potential
conflicts of interest with each other and with our stockholders. They may

31

Table of Contents   

be presented with situations in their capacity as our officers or directors that conflict with
their fiduciary obligations to Atlantic Investors, which in turn may have interests that conflict
with the interests of our other stockholders.

Acquisitions may result in disruptions to our business or distractions of our management due
to difficulties in integrating acquired personnel and operations, and these integrations may not
proceed as planned.   Since December 2002, we have acquired CBTM (accounted for as an  as if
pooling ), Avasta, Conxion, selected assets of Interliant, all of the shares of ten wholly-owned
subsidiaries of CBT (accounted for as an  as if pooling ) and substantially all of the assets and
liabilities of Surebridge. We intend to continue to expand our business through the acquisition of
companies, technologies, products and services. Acquisitions involve a number of special problems
and risks, including:

difficulty integrating acquired technologies, products, services, operations and personnel with
the existing businesses; 

difficulty maintaining relationships with important third parties, including those relating to
marketing alliances and providing preferred partner status and favorable pricing; 

diversion of management s attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and
integrating the businesses; 

strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations; 

inability to retain and motivate management and other key personnel of the acquired businesses; 

exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; 

potential costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits; 

potential issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition with rights that are
superior to the rights of holders of our common stock, or which may have a dilutive effect on
our common stockholders; 

the need to incur additional debt or use cash; and 

the requirement to record potentially significant additional future operating costs for the
amortization of intangible assets. 

As a result of these problems and risks, businesses we acquire may not produce the revenues,
earnings or business synergies that we anticipated, and acquired products, services or technologies
might not perform as we expected. As a result, we may incur higher costs and realize lower revenues
than we had anticipated. We may not be able to successfully address these problems and we cannot
assure you that the acquisitions will be successfully identified and completed or that, if
acquisitions are completed, the acquired businesses, products, services or technologies will
generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other harmful effects on our
business. In addition, our limited operating history with our current structure resulting from
recent acquisitions makes it very difficult for you and us to evaluate or predict our ability to,
among other things, retain customers, generate and sustain a revenue base sufficient to meet our
operating expenses, and achieve and sustain profitability.

A failure to meet customer specifications or expectations could result in lost revenues,
increased expenses, negative publicity, claims for damages and harm to our reputation and cause
demand for our services to decline.   Our agreements with customers require us to meet specified
service levels for the services we provide. In addition, our customers may have additional
expectations about our services. Any failure to meet customers  specifications or expectations
could result in:

delayed or lost revenue; 

32

Table of Contents   

requirements to provide additional services to a customer at reduced charges or no charge; 

negative publicity about us, which could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; and 

claims by customers for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the
failure, which may not be covered by insurance policies and which may not be limited by contractual
terms of our engagement. 

Our ability to successfully market our services could be substantially impaired if we are
unable to deploy new infrastructure systems and applications or if new infrastructure systems and
applications deployed by us prove to be unreliable, defective or incompatible.   We may experience
difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of
hosting and application management services in the future. If any newly introduced infrastructure
systems and applications suffer from reliability, quality or compatibility problems, market
acceptance of our services could be greatly hindered and our ability to attract new customers could
be significantly reduced. We cannot assure you that new applications deployed by us will be free
from any reliability, quality or compatibility problems. If we incur increased costs or are unable,
for technical or other reasons, to host and manage new infrastructure systems and applications or
enhancements of existing applications, our ability to successfully market our services could be
substantially limited.

Any interruptions in, or degradation of, our private transit Internet connections could result
in the loss of customers or hinder our ability to attract new customers.   Our customers rely on our
ability to move their digital content as efficiently as possible to the people accessing their Web
sites and infrastructure systems and applications. We utilize our direct private transit Internet
connections to major network providers, such as Level 3, Global Crossing and XO Communications, as
a means of avoiding congestion and resulting performance degradation at public Internet exchange
points. We rely on these telecommunications network suppliers to maintain the operational integrity
of their networks so that our private transit Internet connections operate effectively. If our
private transit Internet connections are interrupted or degraded, we may face claims by, or lose,
customers, and our reputation in the industry may be harmed, which may cause demand for our
services to decline.

If we are unable to maintain existing and develop additional relationships with software
vendors, the sales and marketing of our service offerings may be unsuccessful.   We believe that to
penetrate the market for managed IT services we must maintain existing and develop additional
relationships with industry-leading software vendors. We license or lease select software
applications from software vendors, including IBM, Microsoft, Micromuse and Oracle. Our
relationships with Microsoft and Oracle are critical to the operations and success of our business.
The loss of our ability to continue to obtain, utilize or depend on any of these applications or
relationships could substantially weaken our ability to provide services to our customers. It may
also require us to obtain substitute software applications that may be of lower quality or
performance standards or at greater cost. In addition, because we generally license applications on
a non-exclusive basis, our competitors may license and utilize the same software applications. In
fact, many of the companies with which we have strategic relationships currently have, or could
enter into, similar license agreements with our competitors or prospective competitors. We cannot
assure you that software applications will continue to be available to us from software vendors on
commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to identify and license software applications that
meet our targeted criteria for new application introductions, we may have to discontinue or delay
introduction of services relating to these applications.

Our network infrastructure could fail, which would impair our ability to provide guaranteed
levels of service and could result in significant operating losses.   To provide our customers with
guaranteed levels of service, we must operate our network infrastructure 24 hours a day, seven days
a week without interruption. We must, therefore, protect our network infrastructure, equipment and
customer files against damage from human error, natural disasters, unexpected equipment failure,
power loss or telecommunications failures, terrorism, sabotage or other intentional acts of
vandalism. Even if we take precautions, the occurrence of a natural disaster, equipment failure or
other unanticipated problem at one or more of our data centers could result in interruptions in the
services we provide to our customers. We cannot assure you that our disaster recovery plan will
address all, or even most, of the problems we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other
unanticipated problem. We have experienced service interruptions in the past, and any future
service interruptions could:

33

Table of Contents   

require us to spend substantial amounts of money to replace equipment or facilities; 

entitle customers to claim service credits or seek damages for losses under our service level guarantees; 

cause customers to seek alternate providers; or 

impede our ability to attract new customers, retain current customers or enter into additional strategic
relationships. 

Our dependence on third parties increases the risk that we will not be able to meet our
customers  needs for software, systems and services on a timely or cost-effective basis, which
could result in the loss of customers.   Our services and infrastructure rely on products and
services of third-party providers. We purchase key components of our infrastructure, including
networking equipment, from a limited number of suppliers, such as IBM, Cisco Systems and F5
Networks. Our recently acquired business from Surebridge relies on products and services of
Microsoft and Oracle. We cannot assure you that we will not experience operational problems
attributable to the installation, implementation, integration, performance, features or
functionality of third-party software, systems and services. We cannot assure you that we will have
the necessary hardware or parts on hand or that our suppliers will be able to provide them in a
timely manner in the event of equipment failure. Our ability to timely obtain and continue to
maintain the necessary hardware or parts could result in sustained equipment failure and a loss of
revenue due to customer loss or claims for service credits under our service level guarantees.

We could be subject to increased operating costs, as well as claims, litigation or other
potential liability, in connection with risks associated with Internet security and the security of
our systems.   A significant barrier to the growth of e-commerce and communications over the Internet
has been the need for secure transmission of confidential information. Several of our
infrastructure systems and application services utilize encryption and authentication technology
licensed from third parties to provide the protections necessary to ensure secure transmission of
confidential information. We also rely on security systems designed by third parties and the
personnel in our network operations centers to secure those data centers. Any unauthorized access,
computer viruses, accidental or intentional actions and other disruptions could result in increased
operating costs. For example, we may incur additional significant costs to protect against these
interruptions and the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these
interruptions or breaches. If a third party were able to misappropriate a consumer s personal or
proprietary information, including credit card information, during the use of an application
solution provided by us, we could be subject to claims, litigation or other potential liability.

Third-party infringement claims against our technology suppliers, customers or us could result
in disruptions in service, the loss of customers or costly and time-consuming litigation.   We
license or lease most technologies used in the infrastructure systems and application services that
we offer. Our technology suppliers may become subject to third-party infringement or other claims
and assertions, which could result in their inability or unwillingness to continue to license their
technologies to us. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert claims against us in
the future or that these claims will not be successful. Any infringement claim as to our
technologies or services, regardless of its merit, could result in delays in service, installation
or upgrades, the loss of customers or costly and time-consuming litigation.

We may be subject to legal claims in connection with the information disseminated through our
network, which could divert management s attention and require us to expend significant financial
resources.   We may face liability for claims of defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or
trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature of the materials disseminated through
our network. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that content distributed by
some of our customers may be regulated or banned. In these and other instances, we may be required
to engage in protracted and expensive litigation that could have the effect of diverting
management s attention from our business and require us to expend significant financial resources.
Our general liability insurance may not cover any of these claims or may not be adequate to protect
us against all liability that may be imposed. In addition, on a limited number of occasions in the
past, businesses, organizations and individuals have sent unsolicited commercial e-mails from
servers hosted at our facilities to a number of people, typically to advertise products or
services. This practice, known as  spamming,  can lead to statutory liability as well as
complaints against service providers that enable these activities, particularly where recipients
view the materials received as offensive. We have in the past received, and may in the future
receive, letters from recipients of

34

Table of Contents   

information transmitted by our customers objecting to the transmission. Although we prohibit our
customers by contract from spamming, we cannot assure you that our customers will not engage in
this practice, which could subject us to claims for damages.

If we fail to attract or retain key officers, management and technical personnel, our ability
to successfully execute our business strategy or to continue to provide services and technical
support to our customers could be adversely affected and we may not be successful in attracting new
customers.   We believe that attracting, training, retaining and motivating technical and managerial
personnel, including individuals with significant levels of infrastructure systems and application
expertise, is a critical component of the future success of our business. Qualified technical
personnel are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future and competition for
these personnel is intense. The departure of any of our executive officers, particularly Arthur P.
Becker, our Chief Executive Officer and President, or core members of our sales and marketing teams
or technical service personnel, would have negative ramifications on our customer relations and
operations. The departure of our executive officers could adversely affect the stability of our
infrastructure and our ability to provide the guaranteed service levels our customers expect. Any
officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. In addition, we do
not carry life insurance on any of our personnel. Over the past two years, we have had significant
reductions-in-force and departures of several members of senior management due to redundancies and
restructurings resulting from the consolidation of our acquired companies. In the event of future
reductions or departures of employees, our ability to successfully execute our business strategy,
or to continue to provide services to our customers or attract new customers, could be adversely
affected.

The unpredictability of our quarterly results may cause the trading price of our common stock
to fluctuate or decline.   Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from
quarter-to-quarter and period-to-period as a result of a number of factors, many of which are
outside of our control and any one of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. The primary
factors that may affect our operating results include the following:

a reduction of market demand and/or acceptance of our services; 

an oversupply of data center space in the industry; 

our ability to develop, market and introduce new services on a timely basis; 

the length of the sales cycle for our services; 

the timing and size of sales of our services, which depends on the budgets of our customers; 

downward price adjustments by our competitors; 

changes in the mix of services provided by our competitors; 

technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet or our hosting operations; 

our ability to meet any increased technological demands of our customers; and 

the amount and timing of costs related to our marketing efforts and service introductions. 

Due to the above factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter or period-to-period comparisons
of our operating results may not be a good indicator of our future performance. Our operating
results for any particular quarter may fall short of our expectations or those of stockholders or
securities analysts. In this event, the trading price of our common stock would likely fall.

If we are unsuccessful in pending and potential litigation matters, our financial condition
may be adversely affected.   We are currently involved in various pending and potential legal
proceedings, including a class action
lawsuit related to our initial public offering. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in any of these
matters, we could be required to pay substantial amounts of cash to the other parties. The amount
and timing of any of these payments could adversely affect our financial condition.

35

Table of Contents   

If the markets for outsourced information technology infrastructure and
applications, Internet commerce and communication decline, there may be insufficient demand for our
services and, as a result, our business strategy and objectives may fail.   The increased use of the
Internet for retrieving, sharing and transferring information among businesses and consumers is
developing, and the market for the purchase of products and services over the Internet is still
relatively new and emerging. Our industry has experienced periods of rapid growth, followed by a
sharp decline in demand for products and services, which related to the failure in the last few
years of many companies focused on developing Internet-related businesses. If acceptance and growth
of the Internet as a medium for commerce and communication declines, our business strategy and
objectives may fail because there may not be sufficient market demand for our managed IT services.

If we do not respond to rapid changes in the technology sector, we will lose customers.   The
markets for the technology-related services we offer are characterized by rapidly changing
technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service introductions, shifting distribution
channels and changing customer demands. We may not be able to adequately adapt our services or to
acquire new services that can compete successfully. In addition, we may not be able to establish
and maintain effective distribution channels. We risk losing customers to our competitors if we are
unable to adapt to this rapidly evolving marketplace.

The market in which we operate is highly competitive and is likely to consolidate, and we may
lack the financial and other resources, expertise or capability needed to capture increased market
share or maintain market share.   We compete in the managed IT services market. This market is
rapidly evolving, highly competitive and likely to be characterized by over-capacity and industry
consolidation. Our competitors may consolidate with one another or acquire software application
vendors or technology providers, enabling them to more effectively compete with us. Many
participants in this market have suffered significantly in the last several years. We believe that
participants in this market must grow rapidly and achieve a significant presence to compete
effectively. This consolidation could affect prices and other competitive factors in ways that
would impede our ability to compete successfully in the managed IT services market.

Further, our business is not as developed as that of many of our competitors. Many of our
competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and market resources, greater name
recognition and more established relationships in the industry. Many of our competitors may be able
to:

develop and expand their network infrastructure and service offerings more rapidly; 

adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements more quickly; 

take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily; or 

devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their services and adopt more
aggressive pricing policies than we can. 

We may lack the financial and other resources, expertise or capability needed to maintain or
capture increased market share in this environment in the future. Because of these competitive
factors and due to our comparatively small size and our lack of financial resources, we may be
unable to successfully compete in the managed IT services market.

Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting and business
factors could harm our business in international markets.   We operate a data center in the United
Kingdom. Revenue from our foreign operations accounted for
approximately 4.0% of our total revenue
during the six months ended January 31, 2006. We recently expanded our operations to India,
which could eventually broaden our customer service support. Although we expect to focus most of
our growth efforts in the United States, we may enter into joint ventures or outsourcing agreements
with third parties, acquire complementary businesses or operations, or establish and maintain new
operations outside of the United States. Some risks inherent in conducting business internationally
include:

36

Table of Contents   

unexpected changes in regulatory, tax and political environments; 

longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; 

geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability and the possibility of hostilities among
countries or terrorism; 

reduced protection of intellectual property rights; 

fluctuations in currency exchange rates or imposition of restrictive currency controls; 

our ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; 

challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; 

employment laws and practices in foreign countries; 

laws and regulations on content distributed over the Internet that are more restrictive than those
currently in place in the United States; and 

significant changes in immigration policies or difficulties in obtaining required immigration approvals. 

Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and
consequently, our business.

We may become subject to burdensome government regulation and legal uncertainties that could
substantially harm our business or expose us to unanticipated liabilities.   It is likely that laws
and regulations directly applicable to the Internet or to hosting and managed application service
providers may be adopted. These laws may cover a variety of issues, including user privacy and the
pricing, characteristics and quality of products and services. The adoption or modification of laws
or regulations relating to commerce over the Internet could substantially impair the growth of our
business or expose us to unanticipated liabilities. Moreover, the applicability of existing laws to
the Internet and hosting and managed application service providers is uncertain. These existing
laws could expose us to substantial liability if they are found to be applicable to our business.
For example, we provide services over the Internet in many states in the United States and
elsewhere and facilitate the activities of our customers in these jurisdictions. As a result, we
may be required to qualify to do business, be subject to taxation or be subject to other laws and
regulations in these jurisdictions, even if we do not have a physical presence, employees or
property in those states.

The price of our common stock has been volatile, and may continue to experience wide
fluctuations.   Since January 2004, our common stock has closed as low as $1.19 per share and as high
as $7.30 per share. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject
to wide fluctuations due to the risk factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this
report. Fluctuations in the market price of our common stock may cause an investor in our common
stock to lose some or all of his investment. In addition, should the market price of our common
stock be below $1.00 per share for an extended period, or if we fail to satisfy any other Nasdaq
continued listing requirement, Nasdaq may delist our common stock, which would have an adverse
effect on the trading of our common stock. On June 10, 2002, the listing of our common stock
transferred from the Nasdaq National Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market because the market price
of our common stock had failed to maintain compliance with the Nasdaq National Market s minimum
$1.00 per share continued listing requirement. A delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq could
materially reduce the liquidity of our common stock and result in a corresponding material
reduction in the price of our common stock. Also, a delisting would be a default under our
convertible promissory notes issued to Waythere. In addition, a delisting could harm our ability to
raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may
result in the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees. On April 7, 2005,
we received a letter from the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Staff stating that we had not paid
certain Nasdaq fees as required by Nasdaq Marketplace

37

Table of Contents   

Rule 4310(c)(13) and that as a result, our common stock was subject to delisting from the Nasdaq
Capital Market. On April 8, 2005, we paid these outstanding fees in full and received a letter from
Nasdaq confirming compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(13). We also confirmed with Nasdaq that
no further action by us was required and that our common stock will continue to be listed on the
Nasdaq Capital Market.

Anti-takeover provisions in our corporate documents may discourage or prevent a takeover.  
Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may have the effect of delaying or
preventing an acquisition or merger in which we are acquired or a transaction that changes our
Board of Directors. These provisions:

authorize the board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; 

prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; 

limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and 

establish advance notice requirements for nominations for the election of
directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders
at stockholder meetings. 

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

We do not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. We do not use derivative
financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments in our investment portfolio or enter into
hedging transactions. Our exposure to market risk associated with risk-sensitive instruments
entered into for purposes other than trading purposes is not material to NaviSite. We currently
have no significant foreign operations and therefore face no material foreign currency exchange
rate risk.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.  Based on management s evaluation (with the
participation of NaviSite s principal executive officer and principal financial officer) as of the
end of the period covered by this report, NaviSite s principal executive officer and principal
financial officer have concluded that NaviSite s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the  Exchange
Act )) are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by NaviSite in reports
that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that
the information is accumulated and communicated to its management, including to its principal
executive officer and principal financial officer as appropriate to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  There was no change in NaviSite s
internal control over financial reporting during the second fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, NaviSite s internal control over financial
reporting.

PART II: OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1. Legal Proceedings 

IPO Securities Litigation 

On or about June 13, 2001, Stuart Werman and Lynn McFarlane filed a lawsuit against us,
BancBoston Robertson Stephens, an underwriter of our initial public offering in October 1999, Joel
B. Rosen, our then chief executive officer, and Kenneth W. Hale, our then chief financial officer.
The suit was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The
suit generally alleges that the defendants violated federal securities laws by not disclosing
certain actions allegedly taken by Robertson Stephens in connection with our initial public
offering. The suit alleges specifically that Robertson Stephens, in exchange for the allocation to
its customers of

38

Table of Contents   

shares of our common stock sold in our initial public offering, solicited and received from
its customers  agreements to purchase additional shares of our common stock in the aftermarket at
pre-determined prices. The suit seeks unspecified monetary damages and certification of a plaintiff
class consisting of all persons who acquired shares of our common stock between October 22, 1999
and December 6, 2000. Three other substantially similar lawsuits were filed between June 15, 2001
and July 10, 2001 by Moses Mayer (filed June 15, 2001), Barry Feldman (filed June 19, 2001), and
Binh Nguyen (filed July 10, 2001). Robert E. Eisenberg, our president at the time of the initial
public offering in 1999, also was named as a defendant in the Nguyen lawsuit.

On or about June 21, 2001, David Federico filed in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York a lawsuit against us, Mr. Rosen, Mr. Hale, Robertson Stephens and
other underwriter defendants including J.P. Morgan Chase, First Albany Companies, Inc., Bank of
America Securities, LLC, Bear Stearns   Co., Inc., B.T. Alex. Brown, Inc., Chase Securities, Inc.,
CIBC World Markets, Credit Suisse First Boston Corp., Dain Rauscher, Inc., Deutsche Bank
Securities, Inc., The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., J.P. Morgan   Co., J.P. Morgan Securities, Lehman
Brothers, Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., Morgan Stanley Dean Witter   Co.,
Robert Fleming, Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. The suit generally alleges that the defendants
violated the anti-trust laws and the federal securities laws by conspiring and agreeing to raise
and increase the compensation received by the underwriter defendants by requiring those who
received allocation of initial public offering stock to agree to purchase shares of manipulated
securities in the after-market of the initial public offering at escalating price levels designed
to inflate the price of the manipulated stock, thus artificially creating an appearance of demand
and high prices for that stock, and initial public offering stock in general, leading to further
stock offerings. The suit also alleges that the defendants arranged for the underwriter defendants
to receive undisclosed and excessive brokerage commissions and that, as a consequence, the
underwriter defendants successfully increased investor interest in the manipulated initial public
offering of securities and increased the underwriter defendants  individual and collective
underwritings, compensation, and revenue. The suit further alleges that the defendants violated the
federal securities laws by issuing and selling securities pursuant to the initial public offering
without disclosing to investors that the underwriter defendants in the offering, including the lead
underwriters, had solicited and received excessive and undisclosed commissions from certain
investors. The suit seeks unspecified monetary damages and certification of a plaintiff class
consisting of all persons who acquired shares of our common stock between October 22, 1999 and June
12, 2001.

Those five cases, along with lawsuits naming more than 300 other issuers and over 50
investment banks which have been sued in substantially similar lawsuits, have been assigned to the
Honorable Shira A. Scheindlin (the  Court ) for all pretrial purposes (the  IPO Securities
Litigation ). On September 6, 2001, the Court entered an order consolidating the five individual
cases involving us and designating Werman v. NaviSite, Inc., et al., Civil Action No. 01-CV-5374 as
the lead case. A consolidated, amended complaint was filed thereafter on April 19, 2002 (the  Class
Action Litigation ) on behalf of plaintiffs Arvid Brandstrom and Tony Tse against underwriter
defendants Robertson Stephens (as successor-in-interest to BancBoston), BancBoston, J.P. Morgan (as
successor-in-interest to Hambrecht   Quist), Hambrecht   Quist and First Albany and against us and
Messrs. Rosen, Hale and Eisenberg (collectively, the  NaviSite Defendants ). Plaintiffs uniformly
allege that all defendants, including the NaviSite Defendants, violated the federal securities laws
(i.e., Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act, Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and
Rule 10b-5) by issuing and selling our common stock pursuant to the October 22, 1999 initial public
offering, without disclosing to investors that some of the underwriters of the offering, including
the lead underwriters, had solicited and received extensive and undisclosed agreements from certain
investors to purchase aftermarket shares at pre-arranged, escalating prices and also to receive
additional commissions and/or other compensation from those investors. At this time, plaintiffs
have not specified the amount of damages they are seeking in the Class Action Litigation.

Between July and September 2002, the parties to the IPO Securities Litigation briefed motions
to dismiss filed by the underwriter defendants and the issuer defendants, including NaviSite. On
November 1, 2002, the Court held oral argument on the motions to dismiss. The plaintiffs have since
agreed to dismiss the claims against Messrs. Rosen, Hale and Eisenberg without prejudice, in return
for their agreement to toll any statute of limitations applicable to those claims. By stipulation
entered by the Court on November 18, 2002, Messrs. Rosen, Hale and Eisenberg were dismissed without
prejudice from the Class Action Litigation. On February 19, 2003, an opinion and order was issued
on defendants  motion to dismiss the IPO Securities Litigation, essentially denying the motions to
dismiss of all 55 underwriter defendants and of 185 of the 301 issuer defendants, including
NaviSite.

On June 30, 2003, our Board of Directors considered and authorized us to negotiate a
settlement of the pending Class Action Litigation substantially consistent with a memorandum of
understanding negotiated among proposed class plaintiffs, the issuer defendants and the insurers
for such issuer defendants. Among other contingencies, any such settlement would be subject to
approval by the Court. Plaintiffs filed on June 14, 2004, a motion for

39

Table of Contents   

preliminary approval of the Stipulation And Agreement Of Settlement With Defendant Issuers And
Individuals (the  Preliminary Approval Motion ). On February 15, 2005, the Court approved the
Preliminary Approval Motion in a written opinion which detailed the terms of the settlement
stipulation, its accompanying documents and schedules, the proposed class notice and, with a
modification to the bar order to be entered, the proposed settlement order and judgment. A further
conference was held on April 13, 2005, at which time the Court considered additional submissions
but did not make final determinations regarding the exact form, substance and program for notifying
the proposed settlement class. On August 31, 2005, the Court entered a further Preliminary Order In
Connection with Settlement Proceedings (the  Preliminary Approval Order ), which granted
preliminary approval to the issuer s
settlement with the Plaintiffs in the IPO Securities Litigation. In connection with the Preliminary
Approval Order, the Court scheduled a Fed. R. Civ. P. 23 fairness hearing for April 24, 2006 in
order to consider whether to enter final approval of the settlement. Any requests for exclusion or
objections to the settlement are to be filed by March 24, 2006. If the proposed issuers  settlement
is completed and then approved by the Court without further modifications to its material terms, we
and the participating insurers acting on our behalf may be responsible for providing funding of
approximately $3.4 million towards the total amount plaintiffs are guaranteed by the settlement to
recover in the IPO Securities Litigation. The amount of the guarantee allocable to us could be
reduced or eliminated in its entirety in the event that plaintiffs are able to recover more than
the total amount of such overall guarantee from settlements with or judgments obtained against the
non-settling defendants. Even if no additional recovery is obtained from any of the non-settling
defendants, the settlement amount allocable to us is expected to be fully covered by our existing
insurance policies and is not expected to have a material effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We believe that the allegations against us are without merit and, if the settlement is not
finalized, we intend to vigorously defend against the plaintiffs  claims. Due to the inherent
uncertainty of litigation, we are not able to predict the possible outcome of the suits and their
ultimate effect, if any, on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Wrongful Termination Claim 

This lawsuit for wrongful termination was filed in the Superior Court of the State of
California, Santa Clara County (Case No. 104CV031471) against NaviSite, Inc. and one of its former
employees. Plaintiffs were two female former employees of NaviSite who were terminated from their
employment in 2004 as part of a reduction in force. One plaintiff alleged unlawful discrimination
based on age and gender, and the other plaintiff alleged unlawful discrimination based on gender
and retaliation for taking maternity leave. NaviSite s management and the co-named former employee
denied all claims and vigorously defended the lawsuit. On November 1, 2005, NaviSite entered into a
settlement agreement with both of the plaintiffs, pursuant to which NaviSite is required to make an
aggregate payment of $500,000, payable over time. As of July 31, 2005, we had accrued $500,000 for
this settlement, of which we have paid $300,000 in the second quarter and $100,000 in the third
quarter of fiscal year 2006. The balance, as of January 31,
2006, is included in  Accrued expenses and other current
liabilities 
on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

At the 2005 Annual meeting of Stockholders of the Company (the  Annual Meeting ) held on
December 8, 2005, the following matters were acted upon by the stockholders of the Company:

1. 
       
     The election of six members of the board of directors of the Company to serve
for a one-year term; and 

2. 
       
     Ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as the independent registered
public accounting firm of the Company for the current fiscal year. 

The number of shares of Common Stock issued, outstanding and eligible to vote as of the record
date of October 28, 2005 was 28,487,260. The results of the voting on each of the matters presented
to stockholders at the Annual Meeting are set forth below:

40

Table of Contents   

Item 6. Exhibits 

The Exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such Exhibits are filed with or
incorporated by reference in this report.

41

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURE 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

March 15, 2006  
     NAVISITE, INC. 

By:   
                                               /s/  John J. Gavin, Jr.

John J. Gavin Jr.  

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  

42

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

43

<EX-31.1>
 2
 b59738niexv31w1.txt
 EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CEO

Exhibit 31.1

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                      EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
                       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302
                        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Arthur P. Becker, Chief Executive Officer of NaviSite, Inc., certify that:

1. I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of NaviSite, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

          (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

          (b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

          (c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting;
and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

          (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and

          (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
over financial reporting.

By: /s/ Arthur P. Becker
                                            --------------------------------
                                                Arthur P. Becker
                                                Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 15, 2006

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 b59738niexv31w2.txt
 EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

Exhibit 31.2

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                      EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
                       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302
                        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, John J. Gavin, Jr., Chief Financial Officer of NaviSite, Inc., certify that:

1. I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of NaviSite, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

          (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

          (b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

          (c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting;
and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

          (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and

          (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
over financial reporting.

By: /s/ John J. Gavin, Jr.
                                                  ------------------------------
                                                  John J. Gavin, Jr.
                                                  Chief Financial Officer

Date: March 15, 2006

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 b59738niexv32w1.txt
 EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND PRESIDENT

Exhibit 32.1

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

     In connection with the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of NaviSite, Inc. (the
"Company") for the quarter ended January 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), the undersigned,
Arthur P. Becker, Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, hereby
certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:

     (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

     (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

By: /s/ Arthur P. Becker
    --------------------------------
    Arthur P. Becker
    Chief Executive Officer and
    President

Date: March 15, 2006

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 b59738niexv32w2.txt
 EX-32.2 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CFO

Exhibit 32.2

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

     In connection with the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of NaviSite, Inc. (the
"Company") for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2006 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), the
undersigned, John J. Gavin, Jr., Chief Financial Officer of the Company, hereby
certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:

     (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

     (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

By: /s/ John J. Gavin, Jr.
    --------------------------------
    John J. Gavin, Jr.
    Chief Financial Officer

Date: March 15, 2006

</EX-32.2>

