<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060328_10-Q_edgar_data_723531_0000950152-06-002607_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>341748</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>84676</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>157126</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>35</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950152-06-002607.hdr.sgml : 20060328
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060328165245
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950152-06-002607
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060228
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060328
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060328

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PAYCHEX INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000723531
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-ENGINEERING, ACCOUNTING, RESEARCH, MANAGEMENT [8700]
		IRS NUMBER:				161124166
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0531

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-11330
		FILM NUMBER:		06715633

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		911 PANORAMA TRAIL S
		CITY:			ROCHESTER
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			14625-0397
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7163856666

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		911 PANORAMA TRAIL SOUTH
		CITY:			ROCHESTER
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			14625-0397

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 PeRCePqV5j4PsGhuOMeVnkGdbZSQTGdj8UZ18DU7gBMcXxPY0oPkYVCCsk62Ky6x
 AVCeF/5CvX3Y0gGngiqfJw==

 0000950152-06-002607.txt : 20060328

10-Q
 1
 l19268ae10vq.htm
 PAYCHEX, INC.   10-Q/QTR END 2-28-06

Paychex, Inc.  10-Q 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

(Mark One)

FOR THE QUARTERLY PERIOD ENDED FEBRUARY 28, 2006

OR 

For the transition period from                                              to                                             

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 0-11330 

PAYCHEX, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

16-1124166 

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer 

incorporation or organization)

Identification No.) 

(585) 385-6666 
(Registrant s telephone number, including area code)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    .

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer    
                Accelerated filer    
                Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes     No    .

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common stock, as of
the latest practicable date.

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION   
     ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   
     ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
     ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE OF MARKET RISK   
     ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
   PART II. OTHER INFORMATION   
     ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
     ITEM 6. EXHIBITS   
   SIGNATURES   
   EX-31.1 Certification of CEO Pursuant to Rule 13A-14(A)   
   EX-31.2 Certification of CFO Pursuant to Rule 13A-14(A)   
   EX-32.1 Section 1350 CEO Certification   
   EX-32.2 Section 1350 CEO Certification   

Table of Contents   

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

PAYCHEX, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)  
In thousands, except per share amounts

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

2

Table of Contents   

PAYCHEX, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (UNAUDITED)  
In thousands, except per share amounts

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

3

Table of Contents   

PAYCHEX, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)  
In thousands

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

4

Table of Contents   

PAYCHEX, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 
February 28, 2006 

Note A: Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies 

Description of business:   Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the  Company ) is a
leading provider of comprehensive payroll and integrated human resource and employee benefits
outsourcing solutions for small- and medium-sized businesses in the United States. The Company
also has approximately 450 clients in Germany. The Company, a Delaware corporation formed in 1979,
reports one segment based upon the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
( SFAS ) No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. 

Basis of presentation:   The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) for interim financial
information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly,
they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial
statement presentation. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the consolidated accounts of
the Company with all significant intercompany transactions eliminated. In the opinion of
management, the information furnished herein reflects all adjustments (consisting of items of a
normal recurring nature), which are necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the
interim period. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company s
Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements presented
in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K as of and for the year ended May 31, 2005. Operating
results and cash flows for the nine months ended February 28, 2006 are not necessarily indicative
of the results that may be expected for other interim periods or the full fiscal year ended May 31,
2006.

Prior periods presented reflect the change in classification of variable rate demand notes
( VRDNs ) and auction rate securities from cash equivalents to available-for-sale securities. This
reclassification had no impact on reported consolidated earnings.

VRDNs are variable rate securities where the interest rate is periodically reset, as established at
the time of the notes issuance, and is often tied to short-term interest rates. However, the
contractual maturity on these notes is typically twenty to thirty years. The Company
invests in these securities to provide near-term liquidity as it can tender the notes at par to a
remarketing agent either daily or within five business days. Auction rate securities are also variable rate
and tied to short-term interest rates with maturities in excess of ninety days. Interest rates on
these securities reset through a Dutch auction, at predetermined short-term intervals, usually
every seven, twenty-eight, thirty-five or forty-nine days. Interest paid during a given period is
based upon the interest rate determined during the prior auction. Although VRDNs and auction rate
securities are issued as long-term securities, both are priced and
traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the auction or tender feature. The Company
has historically classified these securities as cash equivalents if the period between interest
rate resets was ninety days or less.

Based on
the Company s review of the maturity dates associated with the
underlying securities and as
liquidity is provided by a party other than the original issuer, the Company has reclassified VRDNs
and auction rate securities, previously classified as cash equivalents, to available-for-sale
securities, within corporate investments and funds held for clients, for each of the periods
presented in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. This reclassification

5

Table of Contents   

was $1.6 billion
from cash equivalents to available-for-sale securities within funds held for clients as of both
February 28, 2006 and May 31, 2005, and $301.6 million and $203.3 million from cash and cash
equivalents to corporate investments as of February 28, 2006 and May 31, 2005, respectively. In
addition,  Purchases of available-for-sale securities,   Proceeds from sales and maturities of
available-for-sale securities,   Net change in funds held for clients  money market securities and
other cash equivalents,  and  Net realized gains on sales
of available-for-sale securities  included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, have been revised
to reflect the purchase and sale of VRDNs and auction rate securities during the periods presented.

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported consolidated earnings. Expenses have been
reclassified between operating expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses to more
appropriately reflect the Company s current way of conducting business. The role of the branch and
its relationship to corporate support and information technology functions has evolved to the point
where the classification of branch-related expenses needed to be revised. The new
classification provides better year-over-year comparisons for operating
expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses.

PEO revenue recognition:   Professional Employer Organization ( PEO ) revenues are included in
service revenues and are reported net of direct costs billed and incurred for PEO worksite
employees, which include wages, taxes, benefit premiums, workers  compensation costs and claims of
PEO worksite employees. Direct costs billed and incurred for PEO worksite employees were $628.3
million and $591.6 million for the three months ended February 28, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and
$1.8 billion and $1.7 billion for the nine months ended February 28, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

PEO workers  compensation insurance:   Workers  compensation insurance for PEO worksite employees is
provided under a deductible workers  compensation policy with a national insurance company. Claims
are paid as incurred and the Company s maximum individual claims liability is $500,000 under the
fiscal 2005 policy and $750,000 under the fiscal 2006 policy.

The Company has recorded the following amounts on its Consolidated Balance Sheets for workers 
compensation claims:

The amount included in prepaid expense on the Consolidated Balance Sheets relates to the fiscal
2004 policy, which was a pre-funded policy. Estimated losses under the workers  compensation
policies, based on historical loss experience and independent actuarial loss projections, are
subject to change based on changes in claims experience trends and other factors that management
monitors on a regular basis. Any adjustment to previously established reserves is reflected in the
operating results of the period in which the adjustment is determined to be necessary. Such
adjustments could possibly be significant, reflecting any variety of new and adverse or favorable
trends.

Software development and enhancements:   Expenditures for major software purchases and software
developed for internal use are capitalized and depreciated using the straight-line

6

Table of Contents   

method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. For software developed or obtained
for internal use, costs are capitalized in accordance with Statement of Position 98-1,  Accounting
for Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.  Capitalized internal use
software costs include external direct costs of materials and services associated with developing
or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly
associated with internal-use software projects. Capitalization of these costs ceases no later than
the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Costs
associated with preliminary project stage activities, training, maintenance, and other
post-implementation stage activities are expensed as incurred. The carrying value of software and
development costs, along with other long-lived assets, is reviewed for impairment when events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable.

Stock-based compensation costs:   SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, 
establishes accounting and reporting standards for stock-based employee compensation plans. As
permitted by SFAS No. 123, the Company accounts for such arrangements under Accounting Principles
Board Opinion ( APB ) No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and related
interpretations. Accordingly, no compensation expense is recognized for stock option grants
because the exercise price of the stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock on
the date of the grant.

The following table illustrates the pro forma effect on net income and earnings per share as if the
Company had applied the fair value recognition provision of SFAS No. 123 to stock-based
compensation:

For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the stock option grant is
amortized to expense over the option s vesting period. There were no stock option grants in the
three months ended February 28, 2006 and 2005. There were approximately 3.6 million and 2.5
million stock option grants during the nine months ended February 28, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Stock options granted during the nine months ended February 28, 2006 vest ratably over periods
ranging between three and five years. The weighted-average fair value of

7

Table of Contents   

stock options granted was $11.02 and $8.99 for the nine months ended February 28, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. The fair value of these stock options was estimated at the date of grant using a
Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:

Additional information related to the Company s stock option plans is detailed in Note G of these
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

New accounting pronouncements:   In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB )
issued SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  which replaces SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation  and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees.  This statement requires that all stock-based payments to employees, including grants
of employee stock options, be recognized as compensation costs in the financial statements based on
their fair values measured at the date of grant. The pro forma disclosure of the effect on net
earnings and earnings per share as if the Company had applied the fair value method of accounting
for stock-based compensation under SFAS No. 123 is contained in this Note A to the Consolidated
Financial Statements under the heading  Stock-based compensation costs.  However, the calculation
of compensation costs for stock-based payment transactions in
accordance with SFAS No.  123(R)  may
be different from the calculation of compensation cost under SFAS No. 123. The Company is
currently evaluating the new standard and the methods of adoption and plans to adopt this standard
for its fiscal year beginning June 1, 2006. Based upon the Company s current review of the new
rules and anticipated equity awards, it expects adoption of SFAS
No. 123(R) will negatively impact net income
by approximately 5% in fiscal 2007.

The following FASB Staff Positions ( FSP ) issued during the Company s fiscal year ended May 31,
2006 and related to SFAS No. 123(R) are currently being evaluated and will be applied upon adoption
of SFAS No. 123(R) for the Company s fiscal year beginning June 1, 2006:

FAS 123(R)-1,  Classification and Measurement of Freestanding Financial Instruments
Originally Issued in Exchange for Employee Services under FASB Statement No. 123(R);  

FAS 123(R)-2,  Practical Accommodation to the Application of Grant Date as Defined in
FASB Statement 123(R);  

FAS 123(R)-3,  Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of
Share-Based Payment Awards;  and 

FAS 123(R)-4,  Classification of Options and Similar Instruments Issued as Employee
Compensation That Allow for Cash Settlement upon the Occurrence of a Contingent Event.  

8

Table of Contents   

In October 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 13-1,  Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred During a
Construction Period.  This FSP provides that rental costs associated with operating leases that
are incurred during a construction period should be recognized as rental expense and included in
income from continuing operations. The guidance in this FSP is effective in the first reporting
period beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company has historically expensed rental costs
incurred during a construction period, and therefore, the adoption of this FSP will not have an
impact on the Company s results of operations or financial position.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1,  The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary
Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments.  This FSP provides guidance on determining
if an investment is considered to be impaired, if the impairment is other-than-temporary and the
measurement of an impairment loss. It also includes accounting considerations subsequent to the
recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized
losses that have not been recognized as other-than-temporary impairments. The guidance in this FSP
amends SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  and is
effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company is currently
accounting for investments in accordance with this guidance, and therefore, the adoption of this
FSP will not have a material impact on the Company s results of operations or financial position.

9

Table of Contents   

Note B: Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share 

Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated as follows:

Weighted-average anti-dilutive stock options to purchase shares of common stock were excluded from
the computation of diluted earnings per share. These options had an exercise price that was
greater than the average market price of the common shares for the period; therefore, the effect
would have been anti-dilutive.

For the three and nine months ended February 28, 2006 stock options were exercised for 0.1 million
and 1.1 million shares of the Company s common stock, respectively, compared with 0.1 million and
0.5 million shares, respectively, for the three and nine months ending February 28, 2005.

10

Table of Contents   

Note C: Funds Held for Clients and Corporate Investments 

Funds held for clients and corporate investments consisted of the following:

11

Table of Contents   

Classification of investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheets is as follows:

The Company is exposed to credit risk from the possible inability of borrowers to meet the terms of
their bonds. In addition, the Company is exposed to interest rate risk, as rate volatility will
cause fluctuations in the market value of held investments and in the earnings potential of future
investments. The Company attempts to limit these risks by investing primarily in AAA- and AA-rated
securities and A-1-rated short-term securities, limiting amounts that can be invested in any single
issuer and by investing in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose market value is less
sensitive to interest rate changes. The Company does not utilize derivative financial instruments
to manage its interest rate risk.

The Company s available-for-sale portfolio reflected a net unrealized loss position of $18.6
million at February 28, 2006 compared with $9.9 million at May 31, 2005. The change resulted from
increases in long-term market interest rates. The gross unrealized losses at February 28, 2006
were comprised of 400 available-for-sale securities, which had a total market value of $1.5
billion. The gross unrealized losses at May 31, 2005 were comprised of 327 available-for-sale
securities with a total market value of $1.2 billion.

The Company reviews its investment portfolios on an ongoing basis to determine if any investment is
other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation
concerns. The Company believes that the investments it held at February 28, 2006 were not
other-than-temporarily impaired. While certain available-for-sale debt securities have market
values that are below cost, the Company believes it is probable that the principal and interest
will be collected in accordance with contractual terms, and the decline in the market value is due
to changes in interest rates and is not due to increased credit risk. At February 28, 2006 and May
31, 2005, substantially all of the securities in an unrealized loss position held an AA rating or
better. The Company currently believes that it has the ability and intent to hold these
investments until the earlier of market price recovery or maturity. The Company s assessment that
an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new
developments or changes in the Company s strategies or assumptions related to any particular
investment.

The cost and market value of available-for-sale securities that have stated maturities at February
28, 2006 are shown below by contractual maturity. Expected maturities will differ from contractual
maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties.

12

Table of Contents   

VRDNs and auction rate securities are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table
above as the contractual maturities on these securities is typically twenty to thirty years.
Although these securities are issued as long-term securities, both are priced and traded as
short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the auction or tender feature.

Note D: Property and Equipment, Net of Accumulated Depreciation 

The components of property and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following:

Depreciation expense was $13.2 million and $38.1 million for the three and nine months ended
February 28, 2006, respectively, as compared with $10.8 million and $31.7 million for the three and
nine months ended February 28, 2005, respectively.

Within construction in progress, there are costs for software being developed for internal use of
$24.0 million and $18.9 million at February 28, 2006 and May 31, 2005, respectively.
Capitalization of costs ceases when the software is ready for its intended use, at which time the
Company begins amortization of the costs.

13

Table of Contents   

Note E: Intangible Assets, Net of Accumulated Amortization 

The Company accounts for certain intangible assets with finite lives in accordance with SFAS No.
142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  The components of intangible assets, at cost,
consisted of the following:

Amortization expense relating to intangible assets was $3.7 million and $11.1 million for the three
and nine months ended February 28, 2006, respectively, as compared with $4.0 million and $11.8
million for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2005, respectively.

The estimated amortization expense relating to intangible asset balances for the full fiscal year
2006 and the following four fiscal years, as of February 28, 2006, is as follows:

Note F: Business Acquisition Reserves 

As a result of business acquisitions made during fiscal year 2003, the Company recorded reserves
for severance and redundant lease costs in the allocation of purchase price under Emerging Issues
Task Force 95-3,  Recognition of Liabilities in Connection With a Purchase Combination.  The
purchase price allocation for the acquisitions included reserves of $10.0 million for severance and
$5.9 million for redundant lease costs. Activity for the nine months ended February 28, 2006 for
these reserves is summarized as follows:

The remaining severance payments will be complete by the end of the fiscal year ended May

14

Table of Contents   

31, 2008. The majority of redundant lease payments are expected to be complete in the fiscal year
ended May 31, 2007, with the remaining payments extending until 2015. Payments of $1.3 million
extend beyond one year and are included in other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets at February 28, 2006.

Note G: Stock Option Plans 

The Company s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2002 Plan ) was amended and restated effective
October 12, 2005 upon approval by the Company s stockholders. The amendments included, among other
changes, an increase of 20 million shares to the number of shares available under the 2002 Plan.
The 2002 Plan now allows for granting of options to purchase up to 29.1 million shares of the
Company s common stock.

The following table summarizes stock option activity for the nine months ended February 28, 2006.

Included in the options granted during the nine months ended February 28, 2006 is a grant on July
7, 2005 to the Company s President and Chief Executive Officer of 250,000 options to purchase
common stock at an exercise price of $33.68 per share, which became effective upon stockholder
approval of the amendments to the 2002 Plan on October 12, 2005.

Historically, the Company has granted options to purchase common stock in an annual aggregate
amount that is less than one percent of the outstanding common shares. With the July 2005 grant of
options to purchase common stock, the Company has increased the annual amount to approximately one
percent of outstanding common shares.

The stock options granted to employees during the nine months ended February 28, 2006 vest ratably
each year over periods ranging from three to five years. Options outstanding at February 28, 2006
had a weighted-average remaining contractual life of 6.9 years and exercise prices ranging from
$8.72 to $51.38 per share.

Note H: Comprehensive Income 

Comprehensive income is comprised of two components: net income and other comprehensive income.
Comprehensive income includes all changes in equity during a period except those resulting from
transactions with owners of the Company. The unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable taxes,
related to available-for-sale securities is the only component reported in accumulated other
comprehensive income in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for the Company.

15

Table of Contents   

Comprehensive income, net of related tax effects, is as follows:

At February 28, 2006, the accumulated comprehensive loss was $12.1 million, which was net of taxes
of $6.5 million. At May 31, 2005, the accumulated comprehensive loss was $6.4 million, which was
net of taxes of $3.4 million.

Note I: Commitments and Contingencies 

Commitments:   The Company has unused borrowing capacity available under four uncommitted, secured,
short-term lines of credit with financial institutions at market rates of interest as follows:

The primary uses of the lines of credit would be to meet short-term funding requirements related to
deposit account overdrafts and client fund deposit obligations arising from electronic payment
transactions on behalf of clients in the ordinary course of business, if necessary. No amounts
were outstanding against these lines of credit as of or during the nine months ended February 28,
2006.

At February 28, 2006, the Company also had standby letters of credit outstanding totaling $53.4
million, required to secure commitments for certain insurance policies. These letters of credit
expire at various dates between May 2006 and December 2008. The letters of credit are secured by
investments held in the Company s corporate portfolio, including a $44.2 million letter of credit
for which funds have been segregated into a separate account. No amounts were outstanding on these
letters of credit as of or during the nine months ended February 28, 2006.

The Company enters into various purchase commitments with vendors in the ordinary course of
business. At February 28, 2006, the Company had outstanding commitments to purchase approximately
$8.4 million of capital assets.

The Company guarantees performance of service on annual maintenance contracts for clients who
financed their contracts through a third party. In the normal course of business, the Company makes
representations and warranties that guarantee the performance of its services under service
arrangements with clients. In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements
with its officers and directors, which require it to defend and, if

16

Table of Contents   

necessary, indemnify these individuals for matters related to their services provided to the
Company. The Company does not anticipate incurring any material losses related to such guarantees
and indemnifications.

The Company currently self-insures the deductible portion of various insured exposures under
certain employee benefit plans. The Company s estimated loss exposure under these insurance
arrangements is recorded in other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Historically, the amounts accrued have not been material. The Company also has insurance coverage
in addition to its purchased primary insurance policies for gap coverage for employment practices
liability, errors and omissions, warranty liability and acts of terrorism, and capacity for
deductibles and self-insured retentions through its captive insurance company.

Contingencies  : The Company is subject to various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal
course of its business. These include disputes related to breach of contract, employment-related
claims and other matters.

The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Rapid Payroll, Inc. ( Rapid Payroll ), are currently
defendants in three lawsuits pending in Los Angeles Superior Court, one lawsuit pending in the
United States District Court for the Central District of California, thirteen lawsuits pending in
the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and one lawsuit pending in the California
Court of Appeal, Second District, all brought in calendar years 2002 and 2003 by licensees of
payroll processing software owned by Rapid Payroll.

In August 2001, Rapid Payroll informed seventy-six licensees that it intended to stop supporting
the payroll processing software in August of 2002. Thereafter, lawsuits were commenced by
licensees asserting various claims, including breach of contract and related tort and fraud causes
of action. These lawsuits sought compensatory damages, punitive damages, and injunctive relief
against Rapid Payroll, the Company, the Company s former Chief Executive Officer and its Senior
Vice President of Sales and Marketing. In accordance with the Company s indemnification agreements
with its senior executives, the Company will defend and, if necessary, indemnify the individual
defendants as it relates to these pending matters.

On July 5, 2002, the federal court entered a preliminary injunction requiring that Rapid Payroll
and the Company continue to support and maintain the subject software pursuant to the license
agreements.

Court Rulings:   In September 2004, the Los Angeles Superior Court granted certain post-trial motions
in the  Payroll Partnership, L.P., et al. v. Rapid Payroll, Inc., et al . matter, reducing the jury s
June 2004 verdict against Rapid Payroll from $6.4 million to $5.1 million. The Superior Court
dismissed all other claims against Rapid Payroll and all claims against the Company and the
individual defendants, including fraud and tort causes of action. Subsequently, this case was
settled for a reduced amount.

In 2005, judgment was entered in  Accuchex, Inc. v. Rapid Payroll, Inc., et al.  following a bench
trial before a judge of the Los Angeles County Superior Court. The judgment provides that the
limitation of liability clause in the parties  license agreement is valid and enforceable. The
court awarded Accuchex damages of $30.5 thousand plus a refund of approximately $35.0 thousand in
license fees. The court also ordered Rapid Payroll to support the Rapidpay software being used by
Accuchex until such time as Rapid Payroll dissolves, which the court found Rapid Payroll was
entitled to do without incurring any further liability to Accuchex. The court rejected all of the
other causes of action asserted by the plaintiff. The plaintiff has filed a Notice of Appeal to
the California Court of Appeal, Second District.

17

Table of Contents   

On February 28 and March 1, 2005, the federal district court entered judgment in thirteen of the
cases pending before it. Those judgments provide that Rapid Payroll s liability is limited by the
license fees paid to it by the plaintiff licensees, pursuant to express contractual provisions of
the license agreements. Those judgments also provide that Rapid Payroll must support the licensed
software until April 30, 2006, and, at that time, refund to each of the licensee plaintiffs the
license fees paid by that plaintiff. The license fees received by Rapid Payroll under the
agreements from these thirteen licensee plaintiffs in the cases currently pending in federal court,
total approximately $2.5 million. The federal court also ordered the release of the source code
pursuant to the escrow terms of the license agreements. The federal court judgments also rejected
the fraud and other tort claims brought by those plaintiffs against all of the defendants.
Plaintiffs have appealed the federal court rulings and the Company has cross-appealed.

Based on the application of SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies,  the Company is required to
record a reserve if it believes an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the probable
loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company s legal reserve for all litigation totaled $21.5
million at February 28, 2006, and is included in current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. The legal reserve has been reduced in fiscal 2006 as actual settlements and incurred
professional fees have been charged against it.

In light of the legal reserve recorded, the Company s management currently believes that resolution
of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial position or
results of operations. However, these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there
exists the possibility that the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse
impact on the Company s financial position and the results of operations in the period in which any
such effect is recorded.

Note J: Supplemental Cash Flow Information 

Supplemental disclosures of non-cash financing activities and cash flow information is as follows:

Note K: Related Party Transactions 

During the three and nine months ended February 28, 2006, the Company purchased approximately $0.2
million and $2.7 million of data processing equipment and software from EMC Corporation, compared
with approximately $0.3 and $2.3 million purchased in the respective periods last year. The
President and Chief Executive Officer of EMC Corporation is a member of the Company s Board of
Directors.

18

Table of Contents   

ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations reviews
Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries ( we,   our,   us ) operating results for the three
and nine months ended February 28, 2006 and 2005, and our financial condition at February 28, 2006.
The focus of this review is on the underlying business reasons for significant changes and trends
affecting our revenues, expenses, net income and financial condition. This review should be read
in conjunction with the February 28, 2006 Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-Q. This review should also be read
in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2005.
Forward-looking statements in this review are qualified by the cautionary statement included in
this review under the next sub-heading,  Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 

Safe Harbor  Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:   Certain written
and oral statements made by us may constitute  forward-looking statements  as defined in the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the  Reform Act ). Forward-looking statements are
identified by such words and phrases as  we expect,   expected to,   estimates,   estimated, 
 current outlook,   we look forward to,   would equate to,   projects,   projections,   projected
to be,   anticipates,   anticipated,   we believe,   could be  and other similar phrases. All
statements addressing operating performance, events or developments that we expect or anticipate
will occur in the future, including statements relating to revenue growth, earnings,
earnings-per-share growth or similar projections, are forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Reform Act. Because they are forward-looking, they should be evaluated in light of
important risk factors. These risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following risks and
those that are described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ),
including our most recent Form 10-K filed on July 22, 2005:

changes in demand for our products and services, ability to develop and market new
products and services effectively, pricing changes and impact of
competition, and the
availability of skilled workforce; 

general market and economic conditions, including, among others, changes in United
States employment and wage levels, changes in new hiring trends, changes in short- and
long-term interest rates and changes in the market value and the credit rating of
securities held by us; 

changes in the laws regulating collection and payment of payroll taxes, professional
employer organizations, and employee benefits, including 401(k) plans, workers 
compensation, state unemployment and section 125 plans; 

changes in our Professional Employer Organization ( PEO ) direct costs, including, but
not limited to, workers  compensation rates and underlying claims trends; 

changes in technology, including use of the Internet; 

the possibility of failure of our operating facilities, computer systems and
communication systems during a catastrophic event; 

the possibility of third-party service providers failing to perform their functions; 

the possibility of penalties and losses resulting from errors and omissions in
performing services; 

the possible inability of clients to meet payroll obligations; 

19

Table of Contents   

the possibility of failure in internal controls or the inability to implement business
processing improvements; and 

potentially unfavorable outcomes related to pending legal matters. 

All of these factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated
results. The information provided in this document is based upon the facts and circumstances known
at this time. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect
events or circumstances after the date of filing of this Form 10-Q with the SEC, or to reflect the
occurrence of unanticipated events.

Overview 

We are a leading provider of comprehensive payroll and integrated human resource and employee
benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. Our Payroll and Human
Resource Services product lines offer a portfolio of products and services that allows our clients
to meet their diverse payroll and human resource needs.

Our Payroll services are provided through either our Core Payroll or Major Market Services ( MMS )
and include:

payroll processing; 

tax filing and payment services; 

employee payment services; and 

other payroll related services including regulatory compliance (new-hire reporting and
garnishment processing). 

MMS is utilized by clients that have more complex payroll and benefit needs. While MMS is focused
on the more than fifty employees market segment, MMS has many clients with less than fifty
employees that have more complex payroll requirements.

Our Human Resource Services primarily include:

retirement services administration; 

employee benefits administration; 

workers  compensation insurance administration; 

time and attendance solutions; 

employee handbooks; and 

comprehensive human resource administrative services. 

We earn revenues primarily through recurring fees for services performed related to our products.
Service revenues are primarily driven by the number of clients, utilization of ancillary services
and checks or transactions per client per pay period. We also earn interest on funds held for
clients between the time of collection from our clients and remittance to the respective tax or
regulatory agencies or client employees. Our strategy is focused on achieving strong long-term
financial performance while providing high-quality, timely, accurate and affordable services,
growing our client base, increasing utilization of our ancillary services and leveraging our
technological and operating infrastructure.

20

Table of Contents   

For the three months ended February 28, 2006, we achieved record total revenues, net income, and
diluted earnings per share. Our financial results for the three months ended February 28, 2006 as
compared to the three months ended February 28, 2005 include the following highlights:

Our financial performance during the three months ended February 28, 2006 was driven largely by
service revenue growth of 13% as compared to the three months ended February 28, 2005. This growth
in service revenue was attributable to client base growth, increased utilization of ancillary
services, price increases, check volume growth and new-hire activity.

Our financial performance was also impacted by the effects of increases in interest rates earned on
our funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios. The Federal Reserve has increased
the Federal Funds rate 350 basis points since June 2004 to 4.50% as of February 28, 2006. Our
combined interest on funds held for clients and corporate investment income increased 76% for the
three months ended February 28, 2006. Our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment
portfolios earned an average rate of return of 3.2% during the three months ended February 28,
2006, compared with an average rate of return of 2.2% for the three months ended February 28, 2005.
The impact of changes in interest rates and related risks are discussed in more detail in the
 Market Risk Factors  section of this review.

At February 28, 2006, we maintained our strong financial position with total cash and corporate
investments of $934.5 million. Our primary source of cash is from our ongoing operations. Cash
flow from operations was $457.9 million for the nine months ended February 28, 2006, as compared
with $366.5 million for the nine months ended February 28, 2005. Historically, we have funded
operations, capital expenditures, purchases of corporate investments, and dividend payments from
our operating activities. It is anticipated that current cash and corporate investment balances,
along with projected operating cash flows, will support our normal business operations, capital
expenditures, and current dividend payments for the foreseeable future.

For further analysis of our results of operations for the three months and nine months ended
February 28, 2006, and our financial position as of February 28, 2006, refer to the analysis and
discussion in the  Results of Operations,   Liquidity and Capital Resources,  and  Critical
Accounting Policies  sections of this review.

21

Table of Contents   

Outlook 

Our
guidance for the full fiscal year ended May 31,
 2006 is provided, including the effect of the
Federal Funds rate increase on January 31, 2006. The Federal Funds rate increases directly effect interest on funds held for clients and corporate
investment income.

Our
guidance is summarized as follows:

Payroll service revenue growth is projected to be in the range of 9% to 11%. 

Human Resource Services revenue growth is expected to be in the range of 26% to 28%. 

Total service revenue growth is projected to be in the range of 12% to 14%. 

Interest on funds held for clients is expected to increase approximately 60% to 65%. 

Total revenue growth is estimated to be in the range of 14% to 16%. 

Corporate investment income is anticipated to increase approximately 95% to 100%. 

The effective income tax rate is expected to approximate 31.5%. 

Net income growth is expected to be in the range of 24% to 26%. 

Purchases of property and equipment for the
full fiscal year ended May 31, 2006 are expected to be in the range
of $75 million to $80 million,
including anticipated purchases for printing equipment, communication system upgrades and branch
expansions. Depreciation expense is projected to be in the range of
$50 million to $55 million. In
addition, we project that amortization of intangible assets will be in the range of $14 million to
$15 million.

Our projections are based on current economic and interest rate conditions continuing with no
significant changes.

22

Table of Contents   

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Summary of Results of Operations:  

23

Table of Contents   

Details regarding our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios are as
follows:

(A) 
       
     These items exclude the impact of auction rate securities and VRDNs as they are tied to
short-term interest rates. 

24

Table of Contents   

Revenues:   The increases in payroll service revenues were attributable to client base
growth, increased utilization of ancillary services, price increases, check volume growth and
new-hire activity for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2006 compared with the
respective periods last year.

As of February 28, 2006, 91% of all clients utilized our tax filing and payment services, compared
with 90% at February 28, 2005. We believe that the client utilization percentage of our tax filing
and payment services is near maturity. Our employee payment services were utilized by 68% of all
clients at February 28, 2006, compared with 65% at February 28, 2005. Approximately 95% of new
clients purchase our tax filing and payment services and more than 75% of new clients purchase
employee payment services.

MMS revenue increased 26% and 27% for the three months and nine months ended February 28, 2006 to
$59.5 million and $165.2 million, respectively. Approximately one-third of new MMS clients are
conversions from our Core Payroll service.

The increases in Human Resource Services revenue in the three months and nine months ended February
28, 2006 compared with the respective periods last year were related to growth in the number of
clients utilizing Retirement Services products, growth in clients and clients  employees served by
the Paychex
Premier (SM)
  Human Resources ( Paychex Premier (SM)
  ) product, higher revenue for our PEO product,
and growth in other Human Resource Services including time and attendance solutions, employee
handbooks and flexible health benefit products.

Retirement Services revenue increased 15% and 16% for the three months
and nine months ended
February 28, 2006 to $27.6 million and $78.0 million, respectively. At February 28, 2006, we
serviced more than 37,000 Retirement Services clients, as compared with more than 32,000 clients at
February 28, 2005.

Our Paychex Premier (SM)  product is a comprehensive payroll and integrated
human resource and employee benefits outsourcing solution for small- to medium-sized businesses.
Sales of the Paychex Premier (SM)  product have been strong, as
administrative fee revenue from this product increased 54% for the three months and 64% for the
nine months ended February 28, 2006 to $13.0 million and $38.0 million, respectively. The increase
in administrative fee revenue is driven primarily by client growth and the implementation of
initial enrollment fees, effective May 1, 2005. As of February 28, 2006, our Paychex
Premier (SM)  product serviced approximately 212,000 client
employees, as compared with over 146,000 client employees at February 28, 2005.

Our PEO product provides essentially the same services as Paychex
Premier (SM) ,
except we serve as a co-employer of the client s employees,
assume the risks and rewards of workers 
compensation insurance and provide more sophisticated health care offerings to PEO clients. The
PEO product is available primarily for clients domiciled in Florida and Georgia, where the
utilization of PEOs is more prevalent than other areas of the United States. Due to the
characteristics of the PEO product, the revenue and profits from
this product can fluctuate
significantly between quarters. These fluctuations primarily relate
to the assumption of the risks
and rewards of workers  compensation insurance and, to a lesser extent, the other offerings unique
to the PEO product. The risks and rewards of workers  compensation insurance are derived from actuarial
changes in estimated losses under workers  compensation policies as the result of actual claims
experience under our workers  compensation policies and changes in workers  compensation
legislation by the state of Florida.

25

Table of Contents   

Revenue from the PEO product increased 9% for the three months and 36% for the nine months ended
February 28, 2006 to $17.2 million and $49.7 million,
respectively. We expect the full fiscal year 2006 growth in revenue from our PEO product to be in the range of 15% to 20%
over PEO revenue of $53.7 million in fiscal 2005. The significant reduction experienced in the
third quarter and anticipated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 is due
to the factors mentioned in the preceding paragraphs. As of February 28, 2006, our PEO product
serviced over 56,000 client employees, as compared with over 52,000 client employees at February
28, 2005.

Revenue from other Human Resource Services increased 35% for the three months and 34% for the nine
months ended February 28, 2006 to $24.1 million and $67.1 million, respectively.

For the three months and nine months ended February 28, 2006, interest on funds held for clients
increased due to higher average interest rates earned and higher average portfolio balances. The
higher average portfolio balances were driven by client base growth, wage inflation, check volume
growth within our current client base and increased utilization of our tax filing and payment
services and employee payment services. See the  Market Risk Factors  section for more information
on changing rates.

Combined operating and SG A expenses:   The following tables summarize total combined operating and
selling, general, and administrative ( SG A ) expenses:

The growth in combined operating and selling, general
 and administrative expenses was impacted by
higher commission and bonus expenses as we exceeded our year-to-date
sales targets and, to a lesser extent, by improving client service
levels as we reduced the number of clients per payroll specialist. Our third
quarter is normally impacted by higher selling costs than other
quarters as additions of new Payroll and Human
Resource Services clients tend to be higher in our third quarter than the rest of the fiscal year
as a majority of new clients begin using services at the beginning of the calendar year.

In addition, the
increases in total expenses were attributed to continued investment in information
technology to create more efficient processes and systems as well as growth in

26

Table of Contents   

personnel
and other costs to support our revenue growth. At February 28, 2005,
we had approximately 10,700 employees compared with approximately
9,900 at February 28, 2005.

Depreciation expense is primarily related to buildings, furniture and fixtures, data processing
equipment and software. Depreciation expense increased for the three months and nine months ended
February 28, 2006 as compared to the same periods last year due to the purchase in May 2005 of a
127,000-square-foot building in Rochester, New York and higher levels of capital expenditures.
Amortization of intangible assets is primarily related to client lists obtained from previous
acquisitions, which are amortized using accelerated methods. Other expenses include such items as
delivery, forms and supplies, communications, travel and entertainment, professional services and
other costs incurred to support our business.

Operating income, excluding interest on funds held for clients:   Year-over-year growth in
operating income, excluding interest on funds held for clients, was 11% for the third quarter and
18% for the nine months ended February 28, 2006. We expect year-over-year growth for fiscal 2006
to be in the range of 16% to 17%, which exceeds our stated long term goal of 15% year-over-year
growth. Operating income growth, excluding interest on funds held for clients, has been stronger
in the first half of fiscal 2006 than the second half due to the timing of workers  compensation
revenue on self insured workers  compensation in our PEO, timing of information technology expense
growth, higher than normal sales expense in the third quarter related to an exceptional selling
season and improving client service by reducing the number of clients per payroll specialist.
Whereas the first two situations are not recurring, the last two are contributing to the strongest
client growth we have experienced since the acquisitions of Advantage Payroll Services, Inc. and
Interpay, Inc. in fiscal 2003. Client growth for the past twelve months has been 4.4%.

Investment income, net:   Investment income, net primarily represents earnings from our cash and
cash equivalents and investments in available-for-sale securities. Investment income does not
include interest on funds held for clients, which is included in total revenues. The increases in
investment income in the three months and nine months ended February 28, 2006 as compared to the
respective periods last year are due to increases in average interest rates earned and increases in
average portfolio balances resulting from investment of cash generated from our ongoing operations.

Income taxes:   Our effective income tax rate was 31.4% during the three months and nine months
ended February 28, 2006 compared with 33.0% in each of the respective periods last year. The
decrease in our effective tax rate is attributable to higher levels of tax-exempt income derived
from municipal debt securities held in our funds held for clients and corporate investment
portfolios, and a lower effective state income tax rate.

Net income:   The increases in net income for the three months and nine months ended February 28,
2006, as compared with the respective periods last year are attributable to the factors previously
discussed.

27

Table of Contents   

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

At February 28, 2006, our principal source of liquidity was $934.5 million in cash and corporate
investments. Current cash and corporate investments and projected operating cash flows are expected
to support our normal business operations, capital expenditures and current dividend payments for
the foreseeable future.

We have unused borrowing capacity available under four uncommitted, secured, short-term lines of
credit with financial institutions at market rates of interest as follows:

The primary uses of the lines of credit would be to meet short-term funding requirements related to
deposit account overdrafts and client fund deposit obligations arising from electronic payment
transactions on behalf of our clients in the ordinary course of business, if necessary. No amounts
were outstanding against these lines of credit as of or during the nine months ended February 28,
2006.

At February 28, 2006, we had standby letters of credit outstanding totaling $53.4 million, required
to secure commitments for certain of our insurance policies. These letters of credit expire at
various dates between May 2006 and December 2008. The letters of credit are secured by investments
held in our corporate portfolios including a $44.2 million letter of credit for which funds have
been segregated into a separate account. No amounts were outstanding on these letters of credit as
of or during the nine months ended February 28, 2006.

We enter into various purchase commitments with vendors in the ordinary course of business. At
February 28, 2006, we had outstanding commitments to purchase approximately $8.4 million of capital
assets.

We guarantee performance of service on annual maintenance contracts for clients who financed their
contracts through a third party. In the normal course of business, we make representations and
warranties that guarantee the performance of our services under service arrangements with clients.
In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, which
require us to defend and, if necessary, indemnify these individuals for matters related to their
services provided to us. We do not anticipate incurring any material losses related to such
guarantees and indemnifications.

We currently self-insure the deductible portion of various insured exposures under certain employee
benefit plans. Our estimated loss exposure under these insurance arrangements is recorded in other
current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Historically, the amounts accrued have not
been material. We also have insurance coverage in addition to our purchased primary insurance
policies for gap coverage for employment practices liability, errors and omissions, warranty
liability and acts of terrorism, and capacity for deductibles and self-insured retentions through
our captive insurance company.

28

Table of Contents   

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions with unconsolidated entities
such as special purpose entities or structured finance entities, which would have been established
for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other limited purposes. We do
maintain investments as a limited partner in low-income housing projects that are not considered
part of our ongoing operations. These investments are accounted for under the equity method of
accounting.

Operating Cash Flow Activities 

The increase in our operating cash flows for the nine months ended February 28, 2006 reflects
higher net income adjusted for non-cash items, and increased cash
from working capital. The fluctuation in working capital between periods was primarily the result of timing of payments for
compensation, PEO payroll, income tax, and other liabilities.

Investing Cash Flow Activities 

Funds held for clients and corporate investments   :  
Funds held for clients are primarily comprised
of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. Corporate investments are primarily
comprised of available-for-sale  securities. The portfolio of funds held for clients and
corporate investments is detailed in Note C of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The amount of funds held for clients will vary based upon the timing of collecting client funds,
and the related remittance of funds to tax authorities for tax filing and payment services and to
employees of clients utilizing employee payment services. Fluctuations in net funds held for
clients and corporate investment activities mainly relate to timing of purchases, sales or

29

Table of Contents   

maturities of corporate investments. Additional discussion of interest rates and related risks is
included in the  Market Risk Factors  section of this review.

Purchases of property and equipment:   To support our continued client and ancillary product growth,
purchases of property and equipment were made for data processing equipment and software, and for
the expansion and upgrade of various operating facilities. Construction in progress totaled $27.4
million at February 28, 2006 and $29.5 million at May 31, 2005. Of these costs, $24.0 million and
$18.9 million represent software being developed for internal use at February 28, 2006 and May 31,
2005, respectively. Capitalization of costs ceases when the software is ready for its intended
use, at which time we will begin amortization of the costs.

We purchased approximately $0.2 million and $2.7 million of data processing equipment and software
from EMC Corporation during the three months and nine months ended February 28, 2006, compared with
approximately $0.3 million and $2.3 million purchased in the respective prior year periods. The
President and Chief Executive Officer of EMC Corporation is a member
of our Board of Directors.

Financing Cash Flow Activities 

Dividends paid:   During the three months ended February 28, 2006, our Board of Directors declared a
quarterly dividend of $0.16 per share, which was paid February 15, 2006 to stockholders of record
as of February 1, 2006. In October 2005, our Board of Directors declared an increase in the
quarterly dividend from $0.13 per share to $0.16 per share. Future dividends are dependent on our
future earnings and cash flow and are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors.

Proceeds from exercise of stock options:   The increase in proceeds from the exercise of stock
options is due to an increase in the number of shares exercised from 0.5 million shares during the
nine months ended February 28, 2005 to 1.1 million shares during the nine months ended February 28,
2006, and an increase in the average exercise price per share. We have recognized a tax benefit
from the exercise of stock options of $7.5 million for the nine months ended February 28, 2006 as
compared to $3.4 million for the nine months ended February 28, 2005. This tax benefit reduces the
accrued income tax liability and increases additional paid-in capital, with no impact on the
expense amount for income taxes.

30

Table of Contents   

MARKET RISK FACTORS 

Changes in interest rates and interest rate risk:   Funds held for clients are primarily comprised
of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities and corporate investments are primarily
comprised of available-for-sale securities. As a result of our operating and investing
activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of
operations and financial position. Changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of
future investments and will cause fluctuations in the market value of our longer-term
available-for-sale investments. In seeking to minimize the risks and/or costs associated with such
activities, we generally direct investments towards high credit quality, fixed-rate municipal and
government securities and manage the available-for-sale portfolio to a benchmark duration of two
and one-half to three years. We do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our
interest rate risk.

During the nine months ended February 28, 2006, the average interest rate earned on our combined
funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 3.0% compared with 2.0% for the same
period last year. While interest rates are rising, the full benefit of higher interest rates will
not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of long- and short-term interest
rate changes as discussed below.

Increases in interest rates increase earnings from our short-term investments, and over time will
increase earnings from our longer-term available-for-sale investments. Earnings from the
available-for-sale investments, which currently have an average duration of 2.0 years excluding the
impact of auction rate securities and VRDNs that are tied to short-term interest rates, will not
reflect increases in interest rates until the investments are sold or
mature and the proceeds are reinvested at higher rates. An increasing interest rate environment will generally result in a
decrease in the market value of our investment portfolio.

The cost and market value of available-for-sale securities which have stated maturities at February
28, 2006, by contractual maturity, are shown below. Expected maturities will differ from
contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without
prepayment penalties.

VRDNs and auction rate securities are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table
above as the contractual maturities on these securities is typically twenty to thirty years.
Although these securities are issued as long-term securities, both are priced and traded as
short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the auction or tender feature.

31

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes recent changes in the Federal Funds rate:

Calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. These factors
include, but are not limited to:

daily interest rate changes; 

seasonal variations in investment balances; 

actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale investments; 

the proportional mix of taxable and tax-exempt investments; and 

changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not
synchronized or simultaneous. 

Subject to these factors, a 25-basis-point change in the Federal Funds rate generally affects our
tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points.

Our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) is expected to
average approximately $3.9 billion for the full year ended May 31, 2006. Our normal and
anticipated allocation is approximately 60% invested in short-term securities and
available-for-sale securities that are priced and traded as short-term securities (auction rate
securities and VRDN s) with an average duration of 30 days, and 40% invested in other
available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three years. Based
on these current assumptions, we estimate that the earnings effect of a 25-basis-point change in
interest rates (17 basis points for tax-exempt investments) at this point in time would be
approximately $4.5 million to $5.0 million for the next twelve-month period.

The combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale
 investment portfolios
reflected a net unrealized loss position of $18.6 million at February 28, 2006, compared with $9.9
million at May 31, 2005. During the nine months ended February 28, 2006, the net unrealized loss
position ranged from $21.6 million to $6.1 million. Our investment portfolios reflected a net
unrealized loss position of approximately $21.0 million at March 23, 2006.

As of February 28, 2006 and May 31, 2005, we had $3.9 billion and $3.6 billion invested in
available-for-sale securities at market value. Excluding auction rate securities and VRDN s
classified as available-for-sale securities which are tied to short-term interest rates, the weighted average
yields to maturity were 2.9% and 2.6%, as of February 28, 2006 and
May 31, 2005, respectively. Assuming a hypothetical increase in both
short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in
market value for our

32

Table of Contents   

portfolio of securities at February 28, 2006 would be approximately $8.5
million. Conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable
increase in market value. This hypothetical decrease or increase in the market value of the
portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio s recorded value, with an offsetting
amount recorded in stockholders  equity. These fluctuations in market value would have no related
or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in market value were
considered to be other than temporary.

Credit Risk:   We are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the
possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the bonds. We attempt to limit credit
risk by investing primarily in AAA- and AA-rated securities and A-1- rated short-term securities,
and by limiting amounts that can be invested in any single issuer.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Our critical accounting policies are described in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended May 31, 2005, filed with the SEC on July 22, 2005. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the
critical accounting policies used to prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements, including, but
not limited to, those related to:

revenue recognition; 

PEO workers  compensation insurance; 

valuation of investments; 

goodwill and intangible assets; 

accrual for client fund losses (inability to meet their payroll obligations); 

contingent liabilities; and 

income taxes. 

There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies during the nine months ended
February 28, 2006.

NEW ACCOUNTING PROUNCEMENTS 

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard ( SFAS ) No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  which replaces SFAS No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.  This statement requires that all stock-based
payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, be recognized as compensation
costs in the financial statements based on their fair values measured at the date of grant. The
pro forma disclosure of the effect on net earnings and earnings per share as if we had applied the
fair value method of accounting for stock-based compensation under SFAS No. 123 is contained in
Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading  Stock-based compensation costs. 
However, the calculation of compensation costs for stock-based payment transactions in accordance
with SFAS  No. 123(R)  may be different from the calculation of compensation cost under SFAS No. 123.
We are currently evaluating the new standard and the methods of adoption and plan to adopt this
standard for our fiscal year beginning June 1, 2006. Based upon our current review of the new
rules and anticipated equity awards, we expect adoption of SFAS
No. 123(R) will negatively impact net income
by approximately 5% in fiscal 2007.

33

Table of Contents   

The following FASB Staff Positions ( FSP ) issued during our fiscal year ended May 31, 2006 and
related to SFAS No. 123(R) are currently being evaluated and will be applied upon adoption of SFAS
No. 123(R) for our fiscal year beginning June 1, 2006:

FAS 123(R)-1,  Classification and Measurement of Freestanding Financial Instruments
Originally Issued in Exchange for Employee Services under FASB Statement No. 123(R);  

FAS 123(R)-2,  Practical Accommodation to the Application of Grant Date as Defined in
FASB Statement 123(R);  

FAS 123(R)-3,  Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of
Share-Based Payment Awards;  and 

FAS 123(R)-4,  Classification of Options and Similar Instruments Issued as Employee
Compensation That Allow for Cash Settlement upon the Occurrence of a Contingent Event.  

In October 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 13-1,  Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred During a
Construction Period.  This FSP provides that rental costs associated with operating leases that
are incurred during a construction period should be recognized as rental expense and included in
income from continuing operations. The guidance in this FSP is effective in the first reporting
period beginning after December 15, 2005. We have historically expensed rental costs incurred
during a construction period, and therefore, the adoption of this FSP will not have an impact on
our results of operations or financial position.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1,  The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary
Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments.  This FSP provides guidance on determining
if an investment is considered to be impaired, if the impairment is other-than-temporary and the
measurement of an impairment loss. It also includes accounting considerations subsequent to the
recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized
losses that have not been recognized as other-than-temporary impairments. The guidance in this FSP
amends SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  and is effective for reporting periods
beginning after December 15, 2005. We are currently accounting for investments in accordance with
this guidance, and therefore, the adoption of this FSP will not have a material impact on our
results of operations or financial position.

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE OF MARKET RISK 

The information called for by this item is provided under the caption  Market Risk Factors  under
ITEM 2   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS and
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures:   As of the end of the period covered by this
report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the effectiveness of disclosure controls and
procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the  Exchange Act ). Based on such evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this report, our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in applicable SEC rules and forms.

34

Table of Contents   

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting:   We also carried out an evaluation of the
internal control over financial reporting to determine whether any changes occurred during the
period covered by this report. Based on such evaluation, there has been no change in our internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the most recently completed fiscal quarter
ended February 28, 2006, that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
our internal control over financial reporting.

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 

ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

See Note I of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by
reference thereto, for information regarding legal proceedings.

ITEM 6. EXHIBITS 

Exhibits:

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

PAYCHEX, INC. 

Date: March 28, 2006

/s/ Jonathan J. Judge 

Jonathan J. Judge

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Date: March 28, 2006

/s/ John M. Morphy 

John M. Morphy

Senior Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer, and Secretary 

35

<EX-31.1>
 2
 l19268aexv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1: CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 

  RULE
13a - 14(a) OR 15d - 14(a) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED 

I, JONATHAN J. JUDGE, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Paychex, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors: 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 28, 2006

/s/ Jonathan J. Judge 

President and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 l19268aexv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)

EX-31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2: CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 

  RULE
13a - 14(a) OR 15d - 14(a) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED 

I, JOHN M. MORPHY, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Paychex, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors: 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 28, 2006

/s/ John M. Morphy 

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer, and Secretary

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 l19268aexv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1 SECTION 1350 CEO CERTIFICATION

EX-32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1: CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Paychex, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q for
the nine months ended February 28, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ), I, JONATHAN J. JUDGE, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, that:

(1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

A signed original of this written statement has been provided to the Company and will be retained
by the Company and furnished to the SEC upon request.

Date: March 28, 2006

/s/ Jonathan J. Judge

Jonathan J. Judge 
President and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 l19268aexv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2 SECTION 1350 CEO CERTIFICATION

EX-32.2 

EXHIBIT 32.2: CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
 AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
 SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Paychex, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q for
the nine months ended February 28, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ), I, JOHN M. MORPHY, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, that:

(1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

A signed original of this written statement has been provided to the Company and will be retained
by the Company and furnished to the SEC upon request.

Date: March 28, 2006

/s/ John M. Morphy

John M. Morphy 
Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary

</EX-32.2>

