<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060313_10-Q_edgar_data_815508_0000950135-06-001554_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>268613</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>112321</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>103738</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>16</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950135-06-001554.hdr.sgml : 20060313
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060313164910
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950135-06-001554
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060313
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060313

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BIOPURE CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000815508
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				042836871
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-15167
		FILM NUMBER:		06682601

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		11 HURLEY ST
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02141
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6172346500

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		11 HURLEY STREET
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02141

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 I4hGT38MjseDU8GDqlWQFxowumxZpl0AKvVpwyr2vsfGpvYiuvMzh5/oKrfDRCP+
 AStnw2jlfv6aRWlRgZ/afg==

 0000950135-06-001554.txt : 20060313

10-Q
 1
 b59588bce10vq.htm
 BIOPURE CORPORATION

e10vq 

Table of Contents   

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, DC 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

For the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006

For the transition period from            to

Commission File Number 001-15167 

BIOPURE CORPORATION 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

(617) 234-6500 
(Registrant s telephone number) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
    Yes     No

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of
 accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer
        Accelerated filer
       
Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).
    Yes     No

The number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common stock as of March 10,
2006 was:

BIOPURE CORPORATION 

INDEX TO FORM 10-Q 

Page  

Part I   Financial Information: 

Item 1 - Financial Statements (Unaudited) 

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005 

3 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 and January 31, 2005 

4 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 and January 31, 2005 

5 

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 

6 

Item 2 - Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

13 

Item 3 - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure of Market Risk 

20 

Item 4 - Controls and Procedures 

20 

Part II   Other Information: 

Item 1 - Legal Proceedings 

21 

Item 2 - Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

33 

Item 3 - Defaults Upon Senior Securities 

33 

Item 4   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

33 

Item 5 - Other Information 

33 

Item 6 - Exhibits 

33 

Signatures 

34 

Exhibit Index 

Ex-3.(i) Restated Certificate of Incorporation

Ex-3.(ii) By-laws of Biopure, as amended

EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.E.O.    
     EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.F.O.    
     EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.E.O.    
     EX-32.2 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.F.O.    

Biopure     , Hemopure      and Oxyglobin      are registered trademarks of
Biopure Corporation.

2

Table of Contents   

Part I

Item 1

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets 
(In thousands, except share and per share data) 
(Unaudited)

See accompanying notes.

3

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations 
(In thousands, except per share data) 
(Unaudited)

See accompanying notes.

4

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
(In thousands) 
(Unaudited)

See accompanying notes.

5

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 
January 31, 2006 
(Unaudited)

1. 
     Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for interim
financial information and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required
by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for complete financial
statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring
adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Operating results
for the three month period ended January 31, 2006, are not necessarily indicative of the results
that may be expected for the year ending October 31, 2006; however, the Company expects to incur
a substantial loss for the year ending October 31, 2006.

Effective May 27, 2005, the Company s outstanding and reserved class A common shares, stock
options and warrants reverse split at a six to one ratio, with post split shares retaining a par
value of $.01 per share. All references to shares, including shares issuable on exercise of
warrants and options, have been adjusted to reflect the post reverse split amounts.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its
wholly owned subsidiaries, Biopure Netherlands, BV, Biopure South Africa, Pty, Ltd., Reperfusion
Systems Incorporated, DeNovo Technologies Corporation and Biopure Overseas Holding Company, and
NeuroBlok Incorporated, a 60% owned subsidiary. All intercompany accounts and transactions have
been eliminated in consolidation. Comprehensive loss approximated net
loss for all periods presented.

These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial
statements and notes thereto included in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended October 31, 2005, filed with the SEC on January 17, 2006.

Certain
prior period amounts have been adjusted to conform to the current
year presentation.

The Company has financed operations from inception primarily through sales of equity securities
and development and license agreement payments. The Company has not been profitable since
inception and had an accumulated deficit of $505,449,000 at January 31, 2006. As of January 31,
2006, the Company had $15,151,000 in cash and cash equivalents. The Company expects this funding
to be sufficient to fund operations through August 2006 under the Company s current operating
plan. The Company will require significant additional funding to remain a going concern and to
fund operations until such time, if ever, as it becomes profitable. The Company intends to seek
additional capital through sales of equity securities and, if appropriate, to consider strategic
collaborations for sharing development and commercialization costs. However, there can be no
assurance that adequate additional financing will be available to the Company on terms that it
deems acceptable, if at all.

2. 
     Net Loss per Share 

Basic net loss per common share is computed based on the weighted-average number of common
shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per common share is computed based upon the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for the dilutive effect of the
Company s common stock equivalents, including the shares issuable upon the conversion of Class B Common
Stock outstanding and the exercise of common stock options and warrants. The dilutive effect of
stock options and warrants is determined based on the treasury stock method using the average market price of
common stock for the period. However, basic and diluted net loss per common share is computed the same for all
periods presented, as the Company had losses for all periods presented and, consequently, the effect of Class B
Common Stock, options and warrants is anti-dilutive. Dilutive weighted average shares outstanding do not
include 22,484,957 potential common-equivalent shares for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 5,726,626
common-equivalent shares for the three months ended January 31, 2005, as their effect would have been
anti-dilutive.

6

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 
January 31, 2006 
(Unaudited) 
(continued)

3. 

     Stock Based Compensation 

As of January 31, 2006, the Company had one share-based compensation plan, the Biopure
Corporation Omnibus Securities and Incentive Plan ( the Plan ). The Plan as amended, which is
shareholder-approved, permits the grant of share options to its employees, consultants and
directors for up to 4.37 million shares of common stock. Option awards are generally granted
with an exercise price equal to the market price of the Company s stock at the date of grant.
Options vest at various periods of up to four years and may be exercised within ten years of the
date of grant.

The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123(R),
 Share-Based Payment  (SFAS 123(R)), beginning November 1, 2005, using the modified prospective
transition method. Under the modified prospective transition method, financial statements for periods prior to the
adoption date are not adjusted for the change in accounting. However, compensation expense is
recognized, based on the requirements of SFAS 123(R), for (a) all share-based payments granted
after the effective date and (b) all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date
that remain unvested on the effective date.

Prior to adopting SFAS 123(R), the Company used the intrinsic value method to account for
stock-based compensation under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees.  As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company is amortizing the
unamortized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested option grants issued prior to
the adoption of SFAS 123(R). Historically the fair value of options granted was calculated using
the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model. The Company has elected to continue to use this model.
SFAS 123(R) also requires companies to utilize an estimated forfeiture rate when calculating the
expense for the period, while, SFAS 123 permitted companies to record forfeitures based on
actual forfeitures, which was the Company s historical policy.
The Company has applied an estimated forfeiture rate to remaining
unvested awards based on historical experience in determining the
expense recorded in the Company s consolidated statement of
operations. This estimate will be evaluated quarterly and the
forfeiture rate will be adjusted as necessary. Ultimately, the actual
expense recognized over the vesting period will only be for those
shares that vest. The Company has elected
to recognize compensation cost for awards with pro-rata vesting using the straight-line method.

As a result of adopting the new standard, the Company has recorded $275,000 of stock-based
compensation expense for the three months ended January 31, 2006. The stock-based compensation
expense included $41,000 in cost of revenues, $36,000 in research and development, $1,000 in
selling and marketing and $197,000 in general and administrative expense for the three months
ended January 31, 2006. The compensation expense increased both basic and diluted net loss per
share by $0.01. In accordance with the modified-prospective transition method of SFAS 123(R),
results for prior periods have not been restated. As of January 31, 2006, there was $1.9
million of unrecognized compensation expense, net of forfeitures, related to non-vested
market-based share awards that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
2.83 years.

The following table illustrates the effect on net loss and net loss per share for the three
months ended January 31, 2005, if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions
of Statement 123(R) to options granted under the Company s stock option plan.

7

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 
January 31, 2006 
(Unaudited) 
(continued)

Three Months Ended  

January 31,  

In
thousands (except per share data)   
       
      2005  

Net loss, as reported

$ 
     (7,546 
     ) 

Deduct: Total stock-based compensation expense determined
under fair value based method for all employee awards

(893 
     ) 

Pro forma net loss

$ 
     (8,439 
     ) 

Net loss per common equivalent share:

Basic and diluted   as reported

$ 
     (0.46 
     ) 

Basic and diluted   pro forma

$ 
     (0.51 
     ) 

The fair value of each stock option is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
Option Pricing Model using the assumptions noted in the following table. The risk-free interest
rate is based on a treasury instrument whose term is consistent with the expected life of the
stock options. Expected volatility is based exclusively on historical volatility data of the
Company s stock. The Company estimated the stock option forfeitures based on historical
experience. The Company was unable to use historical information to estimate the expected term
due to a lack of historical exercise activity and therefore used the  simplified  method as
prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commissions  Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107.

The weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted during the quarter ended January
31, 2006 was $0.62 per share.

A summary of option activity under the Plan as of January 31, 2006, and changes during the three
month period then ended is presented below (in thousands, except weighted average data):

A summary of the status of the Company s nonvested shares as of January 31, 2006 is presented
below (in thousands, except weighted average data):

8

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 
January 31, 2006 
(Unaudited) 
(continued)

The fair value of shares vested during the three month periods ended January 31, 2006 and 2005
was $84,000 and $49,000, respectively. No options were exercised in either period presented.

4. 
     Inventories 

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (determined using the first-in, first-out method) or
market. Inventories were as follows at the following dates:

The inventory of Hemopure       hemoglobin glutamer   250 (bovine)  finished goods
represents those units the Company expects to sell in South Africa or to be used in preclinical
or clinical trials to be conducted by or on behalf of the U.S. Naval Medical Research Center
(NMRC), for which the Company will be reimbursed. If the Company experiences a lack of or
extremely limited sales in South Africa or further delays in the use of Hemopure by the NMRC, it
may write off additional units in the future. Any additional writeoff would result in charges to
operations through cost of revenues.

5. 
     Accrued Expenses 

Accrued expenses consisted of the following: 

Included in accrued severance are costs relating to the resignation, in fiscal 2005, of the
Company s Chief Technology Officer. At October 31, 2005, the Company had an accrual of $917,000
representing the amount owed to him in accordance with his employment agreement. During the first
fiscal quarter of 2006, the Company paid $81,000 for costs related to his resignation and, as a
result, had an accrual of $836,000 at January 31, 2006, which is included in the accrued
severance number above. These costs will be paid over the next 27 months in accordance with his
employment agreement.

9

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 
January 31, 2006 
(Unaudited) 
(continued)

6. 
     Restructuring 

During the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company vacated leased office space and sublet it
for a period of 38 months. The Company accounted for the transaction in accordance with FAS 146,
 Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.  These costs were included in
general and administrative expense in the consolidated statement of operations during fiscal 2005
and the remaining obligation is accrued both in the current portion
of restructuring charges, and
in restructuring charges, net of current portion on the condensed
consolidated balance sheet at January 31, 2006.

The following table displays the restructuring activity and liability balances (in thousands):

7. 
     Commitments 

Research Agreement (1)  

In 2003, the Company entered into a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) with
the NMRC. Under the CRADA, as amended, the NMRC has primary responsibility for designing, seeking
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) acceptance of and conducting a planned two-stage Phase
2/3 clinical trial of Hemopure in trauma patients with severe hemorrhagic shock (acute blood loss)
in the out-of-hospital setting. Biopure and the NMRC are each expected to fund the activities for
which it is responsible. The Company believes that all or most of its costs could be covered by
government funding. To date, Congress has appropriated a total of $22.5 million to the U.S.
Navy and Army for the development of Hemopure for potential use in military and civilian trauma
indications and to cover military administrative costs. Of this amount, approximately $5 million
is being administered by the Army. (2)   

8. 
     Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs  ( SFAS No. 151 ), to clarify
the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted
material. This standard requires that such items be recognized as current-period charges. This
standard also establishes the concept of  normal capacity  and requires the allocation of fixed
production overhead to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. Any
unallocated overhead must be recognized as an expense in the period incurred. This standard is
effective for inventory costs incurred starting November 1, 2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 151
has not had a significant impact on the results of operations or financial position. 

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  ( SFAS No.
154 ). This statement establishes new standards on accounting for changes in accounting
principles. Pursuant to
SFAS No. 154, all such changes must be accounted for by retrospective application to the
financial statements of 

(1) 
       
     The content of this document does not necessarily reflect the position or the policy of
the U.S. Government or the Department of Defense, and no official endorsement should be inferred.
Completion of the proposed RESUS clinical trial of Hemopure in trauma is contingent upon further
funding. 

(2) 
       
     $5,102,306 is from Grant DAMD17-02-1-0697. The U.S. Army Medical Research Acquisition
Activity, 820 Chandler Street, Fort Detrick MD 21702-5014 is the awarding and administering
acquisition office. 

10

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 
January 31, 2006 
(Unaudited) 
(continued)

prior periods unless it is impracticable to do so. SFAS No. 154 replaces APB Opinion No. 20
and
SFAS No. 3, though it carries forward the guidance in those pronouncements with respect to
accounting for changes in estimates, changes in the reporting entity and the correction of
errors. This statement shall be effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made
in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not believe the adoption of
this standard will have a material impact on its financial position and results of operations.

9. Litigation 

SEC Civil Injunctive Proceeding   

On September 14, 2005, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filed a civil injunctive
proceeding against Biopure, two former officers and one current officer in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Massachusetts (the  District Court ). The SEC is seeking a permanent
injunction restraining and enjoining the defendants from violating or aiding and abetting violations of federal securities laws, a civil
monetary penalty from each of the defendants, and an order barring the former and current officer
defendants from serving as officers or directors of any publicly-traded company. The complaint
does not specify the amount of the civil monetary penalty sought.

A principal claim by the SEC is that the Company should have disclosed in April 2003 that the FDA
put on hold a proposed clinical trial of Hemopure in trauma patients in the hospital setting.
Under FDA regulations, a proposed trial is either placed on hold within 30 days of the filing of
the proposed trial or it may proceed as submitted. When the FDA communicated the hold, it asked
data questions described as  safety concerns.  The Company s position is that it was not required
to disclose the hold status of the proposed trial in a new indication. The Company did not
disclose the filing of the proposed protocol. It is not uncommon for there to be a dialogue with
the FDA over a proposed trial. The Company did not view the data questions or the proposed trial
itself to be material to an investment decision, as opposed to normal back-and-forth between the
FDA and clinical trial sponsors. In addition, in-hospital trauma was not planned as an indication
for commercial development, and the Company spent an insignificant amount of resources on the
proposed trial.

When the protocol for the in-hospital trauma trial was filed, the FDA designated it as an IND
separate from the then-pending biologics license application (BLA) for a proposed orthopedic
surgery indication. The FDA questions about data were asked in the context of the in-hospital
trauma IND and referred to data that had been submitted in the BLA. The Company intends to prove
that the FDA questions were specific to the in-hospital trauma IND, and the FDA was not
addressing the status of the orthopedic surgery BLA in its communications about the IND.

The Company withdrew the in-hospital trauma IND at issue in the SEC action in November 2003.

A second contention in the SEC suit concerns a separate communication by the FDA with the Company
about the orthopedic surgery BLA. The SEC staff has claimed, among other things, that, in its
view, the disclosures concerning a July 30, 2003 FDA letter about the BLA were too positive in
tone.

In October, the Company filed an answer to the SEC complaint. The Company is
pressing to move the case quickly. That motion has been fully briefed. No amounts have been accrued to date with regard
to this proceeding.

On
March 11, 2006, the Company and the current officer defendant
reached an agreement in principle with the SEC staff to recommend
settlement of this matter. Under the proposed settlement, no fines or
disgorgement would be required of the Company and it would have no
effect on the employment or
officer status of the individual. The Company would agree to an
injunction against violations of certain securities laws and
regulations and the officer would agree to an injunction against
violations of certain non intent-based provisions. The agreement in principle is
subject to approval by the Commissioners of the SEC and could be
rejected or modified. Pending the decision of the Commissioners, the
staff has indicated that it would agree to a motion for a continuance
of all current court ordered deadlines.

 11

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION 
Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 
January 31, 2006 
(Unaudited) 
(continued)

Private Class Action and Derivative Litigation  

Following the announcement in December 2003 that the Company was being investigated by the SEC,
Biopure, two directors (one a former director), its former Chief Executive Officer, former Chief
Technology Officer and former Chief Financial Officer were named as defendants in a number of
similar, purported class action complaints, filed between December 30, 2003 and January 28, 2004,
in the District Court by alleged purchasers of the Company s common stock. Those complaints have
since been consolidated in a single action. The consolidated complaint claims that the Company
violated the federal securities laws based on the same allegations pursued by the SEC. The
complaint does not specify the amount of alleged damages plaintiffs seek to recover. The
complaint sets forth a class period of March 2003 through December 24, 2003. The Company believes
that the complaint is without merit and intends to defend the actions vigorously. At this time,
the Company cannot estimate what impact these cases may have on its financial position or results
of operations. Recently, the plaintiffs filed a motion to amend again to copy the SEC s civil
injunctive complaint. The Court has heard argument on this motion and taken the matter under
advisement.

The seven members of the Company s Board of Directors during the period March through December
2003 and certain officers during that period were named as defendants in two stockholder
derivative actions filed on January 26, 2004 and January 29, 2004 in the same District Court. A
consolidated, amended complaint has been filed. Another request to amend again to copy the SEC s
civil injunctive complaint has also been filed. The Court has heard argument on this motion and
taken the matter under advisement. Biopure is named as a defendant, even though in a derivative
action any award is for the benefit of the Company, not individual stockholders. The
consolidated, amended complaint alleges that the individual directors and an officer breached
fiduciary duties in connection with the same disclosures referenced in the purported securities
class action. The complaint does not specify the amount of the alleged damages plaintiffs seek to
recover. A different stockholder also made demand on the Company s directors on June 30, 2004
that they pursue similar claims on behalf of Biopure, and a similar derivative case was filed in
the Trial Court of Massachusetts, Middlesex County, on September 25, 2005. The Company has filed
a motion to dismiss the case in Middlesex County. At this time, the Company cannot estimate what
impact, if any, these cases may have on its financial position or results of operations.
No amounts have been accrued to date with regard to these actions.

12

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION 
Management s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
January 31, 2006

Management  s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information 

The following discussion of the Company s financial condition and results of operations includes
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company
intends such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for
forward-looking statements in these statutes. These forward-looking statements include, without
limitation, statements about the clinical development program, market opportunity, strategies,
competition, expected activities, expected profitability and investments as the Company pursues its
business plan, and the adequacy of its available cash resources. These forward-looking statements
are usually accompanied by words such as  believe,   anticipate,   plan,   seek,   expect, 
 intend  and similar expressions. The forward-looking information is based on various factors and
was derived using numerous assumptions.

These forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include
those that imply that the Company will be able to commercially develop Hemopure, that in pursuing
cardiovascular and trauma indications the Company will be able to address the safety and other
questions of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) arising out of its previously submitted
biologics license application (BLA) for an orthopedic surgery indication, that the Company s
expectations regarding the role of the U.S. Naval Medical Research Center (NMRC) in assuming and
carrying out primary responsibility for conducting a two-stage Phase 2/3 clinical trial in the
out-of-hospital setting will be met, that the Company will be able to obtain regulatory approvals
required for the marketing and sale of Hemopure in a major market, that anticipated milestones will
be met in the expected timetable, that any preclinical or clinical trials will be successful, that
Hemopure, if it receives regulatory approval, will attain market acceptance and be manufactured and
sold in amounts to attain profitability, that the Company will be able to successfully increase its
manufacturing capacity for Hemopure if it receives regulatory approval, that the Company will be
able to manage its expenses effectively and raise the funds needed to operate its business, or that
the Company will be able to stabilize and enhance its financial position. Actual results may differ
materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements due to risks and uncertainties
that exist in the Company s operations and business environment. These risks include the factors
identified under  Risk Factors  in this report. All forward-looking statements included or
incorporated by reference in this report are based on information available to the Company on the
date such statements were made. In light of the substantial risks and uncertainties inherent in all
future projections, the inclusion of forward-looking statements in this report should not be
regarded as representations by us that the Company s objectives or plans will be achieved. The
Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any
additional disclosures the Company makes in its Form 10-Q, 8-K and 10-K reports to the SEC.

The content of this document does not necessarily reflect the position or the policy of the U.S.
Government or the Department of Defense, and no official endorsement should be inferred.

Overview 

Biopure intends to conduct parallel, pilot clinical trials of Hemopure to assess the potential of
several ischemia indications before committing significant funding for advanced clinical trials.
The Company is currently pursuing this ischemia development program in Europe and South Africa. In
the U.S., the Company continues to respond to issues raised by the FDA as a prerequisite to seeking
regulatory clearance to initiate ischemia trials in the U.S. and to support the Navy s
government-funded development of a potential out-of-hospital trauma indication.

13

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION 
Management s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
January 31, 2006 
(continued)

Significant additional capital will be required to fund the Company s operations until such time,
if ever, as it becomes profitable. The Company intends to seek additional capital through public or
private sales of equity securities and, if appropriate, consider corporate collaborations for
sharing development and commercialization costs. The Company also plans to continue to aggressively
manage expenses, after reducing its workforce and other expenses in recent years. These
cost-cutting measures include reducing the Company s manufacturing operations and thus limiting
production and sales of Oxyglobin       hemoglobin glutamer   200 (bovine)  to keep its
veterinary business viable until such time, if ever, as it can produce Oxyglobin more
cost-effectively.

The Company expects that its operations for the remainder of fiscal 2006 will consist primarily of
clinically developing Hemopure for potential ischemia and trauma indications, communicating with
the FDA, submitting a marketing application in Europe for a proposed orthopedic surgical anemia
indication, and maintaining some manufacturing capability. At January 31, 2006, the Company had
$15.2 million in cash on hand, which it believes will fund operations through August 2006 under the
current operating plan.

Critical Accounting Policies 

The Company s significant accounting policies are described in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October
31, 2005. The application of the Company s critical accounting policies is particularly important
to the accurate portrayal of its financial position and results of operations. These critical
accounting policies require the Company to make subjective judgments in determining estimates about
the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.

The following critical accounting policies are considered most significant:

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined using the first-in, first-out method) or
market. Inventories consist of raw material, work-in-process and Hemopure and Oxyglobin finished
goods. Both Oxyglobin and Hemopure have a shelf life of 3 years from the date of manufacture
(Hemopure s approved shelf life in South Africa is two years.) Inventories are reviewed
periodically to identify expired units and units with a remaining life too short to be commercially
viable or usable in clinical trials based on projected and historical clinical and sales activity.
Inventories are also subject to internal quality compliance investigations. The inventory of
Hemopure finished goods represents the units the Company expects to sell in South Africa or use in
reimbursable preclinical and clinical studies. The Company has been and expects to continue to be
reimbursed for the cost of units to be used in a proposed trauma trial to be conducted by or on
behalf of the NMRC. Any units expected to be consumed by the Company in its own preclinical studies
or clinical trials are carried in inventory at no value until used. If the Company experiences
lower than forecasted sales in South Africa or in the use of Hemopure by the NMRC, the Company may
write off additional units in the future.

Long-Lived Assets

SFAS 144 requires that long-lived assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company s
investments in property and equipment, such as construction in progress and new facility
construction; real property license rights related to the source, supply and initial processing of
its major raw material; and the asset related to the expenditures for a planned manufacturing
facility in South Carolina are the principal long-lived assets that could be subject to such a
review.

14

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION 
Management s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
January 31, 2006 
(continued)

The Company considered whether or not there were indicators of impairment of its long-lived assets
as of the end of the quarter and determined that no such impairment indicators existed at that
time. The Company continually monitors business and market conditions to assess whether an impairment indicator exists. If the
Company were to determine that an impairment indicator exists, it would be required to perform an
impairment test, which might result in a material impairment charge to the statement of operations.

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue from sales of Hemopure and Oxyglobin upon shipment, provided that
there is evidence of a final arrangement, there are no uncertainties surrounding acceptance, title
has passed, collectibility is probable and the price is fixed or determinable. The Company is
marketing Hemopure to hospitals and other institutions in South Africa through a healthcare
distributor. The Company sells Oxyglobin directly to veterinarians in the United States and to a
distributor in the United Kingdom that sells the product in the European Union and to other local
veterinary distributors in England and Germany. Collectibility is reasonably assured once pricing
arrangements are established, as these agreements establish the distributor s intent to pay. The
Company s customers do not have a right to return product.

The Company monitors creditworthiness on a regular basis and believes collectibility of product
revenues is reasonably assured at the time of sale.

The Company recognizes revenue from the U.S. military upon invoicing for reimbursable expenses
incurred in connection with developing Hemopure for a trauma indication. Amounts received for
future inventory purchases, recorded as deferred revenue, will be recognized upon shipment in
accordance with those provisions discussed above.

Research and Development

Since its founding in 1984, Biopure has been primarily a research and development company focused
on developing Hemopure, the Company s oxygen therapeutic for human use, and obtaining regulatory
approval in the United States and other markets. The Company s research and development expenses
have been devoted to basic research, product development, process development, preclinical studies,
clinical trials and preparing and filing a biologic license application for Hemopure with the FDA.
In addition, the Company s development expenses historically included the design, construction,
validation and maintenance of a large-scale pilot manufacturing plant in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
The existing plant was completed in 1995, expanded in 1998 and expanded again in 2002.

A facility is a necessary part of developing a product like Hemopure. The FDA classifies Hemopure
as a biologic because it is derived from animal-source material. Unlike drugs that are chemical
compounds, biologics are defined by their manufacturing process and composition. Under FDA regulations, any change in the
manufacturing process could be considered to produce an altered, possibly different product.
Therefore, it is necessary to demonstrate manufacturing capability at greater than laboratory scale
for an application for regulatory approval of a biologic to be accepted for review. This
requirement results in high manufacturing research and development costs in the development of a
biologic relative to other types of drugs.

Prior to 1998, the Company only manufactured product for use in preclinical and clinical trials and
production costs were charged wholly to research and development. As an offshoot of the research
and development for Hemopure, Oxyglobin, a similar product, gained approval for veterinary use in 1998. Oxyglobin was then
produced for sale in the pilot manufacturing plant that was built and maintained primarily for the
development of Hemopure. Because of this marketing approval, costs of production of Oxyglobin for
sale and an allocation of manufacturing overhead based on capacity used for Oxyglobin are charged
to inventory and to cost of revenues. Since marketing approval was received for Hemopure in South Africa in 2002, costs of production of Hemopure for sale and an
allocation of manufacturing overhead based on capacity used for Hemopure have been charged to
inventory and to cost of revenues.

15

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION 
Management s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
January 31, 2006 
(continued)

Results of Operations 

As the Company generates net losses, the key drivers of the losses are cost of revenues, research
and development and other expenses consisting of sales and marketing and general and
administrative. Inflation and changing prices have not had a significant impact on the revenues or
loss from operations in the periods presented below. For the three month periods ended January 31,
2006 and 2005, these items were as follows:

Three months ended January 31, 2006 compared to three months ended January 31, 2005  

Total revenues for the first quarter of 2006 were $477,000, including $341,000 from sales of
Biopure s veterinary product Oxyglobin, $129,000 from past congressional appropriations
administered by the U.S. Army and $4,000 from sales of Hemopure in South Africa, the first-ever
commercial sale of a hemoglobin-based oxygen therapeutic for human use. The Army payments reimburse Biopure for certain trauma development expenses for
Hemopure. Total revenues for the same period in 2005 were $679,000, including $386,000 from Army
payments and $292,000 from Oxyglobin sales.

16

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION 
Management s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
January 31, 2006 
(continued)

Total cost of revenues was comparable for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 and 2006. Cost of
revenues includes costs of both Hemopure and Oxyglobin. Hemopure cost of revenues, consisting
primarily of the allocation of unabsorbed fixed manufacturing costs, was $2.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to $2.5
million for the same period in 2005. Manufacturing spending was nearly the same during the first
quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to the same period last year. Oxyglobin cost of revenues was
$698,000 for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to $609,000 for the same period in 2005.

A breakdown of the Company s research and development expenses by major activity is as follows:

Orthopedic Surgery/BLA Project 

Historically, virtually all of the research and development expenses related to an anticipated
surgical anemia indication. Research and development expenses continue to include amounts for
support of the BLA review process, including responding to FDA inquiries. (The BLA was filed for
an orthopedic surgery indication.) As described above, the Company s primary strategic focus is
now the development of Hemopure for ischemia, primarily in the cardiovascular area, and trauma
indications. The Company cannot predict whether it will ever realize material cash inflows from a
surgical anemia indication.

Ischemia and Trauma Projects 

Both the ischemia and the trauma projects are in early stages (i.e., safety clinical trials and
preclinical animal studies), although the NMRC is seeking FDA authorization to conduct a Phase 2/3
trial in trauma patients. Cumulative ischemia project expenditures of $3.2 million as of January
31, 2006 consist primarily of the costs of preparing and carrying out a Phase 2 clinical trial in
Europe. Cumulative trauma expenditures of $2.7 million as of January 31, 2006 consist of costs to
conduct preclinical studies and preparation costs primarily associated with protocol and study
design for the proposed NMRC sponsored out-of-hospital trauma indication.

Regulatory agency requirements for additional clinical trials and any further preclinical studies
that might be necessary for either an ischemia indication or for use in trauma patients cannot be
estimated at this time. The risks and uncertainties associated with the early stage of planning and
execution of the ischemia and trauma clinical development programs include, among other things,
uncertainties about results that at any time could require us to abandon or greatly modify either
project. Accordingly, the Company cannot estimate the period in which material net cash inflows for
either of these two projects might commence, if ever, and it does not expect to obtain marketing
approval of a potential ischemia indication or trauma indication earlier than 2009.

Research and development expenses were $1.5 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and for
the corresponding period in 2005. In 2006, higher salary, outside services and travel-related
expenses offset lower spending on preclinical animal studies and other activities related to the
Company s communications with the FDA.

17

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION 
Management s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
January 31, 2006 
(continued)

Sales and marketing expenses increased to $172,000 for the first quarter of fiscal 2006, from
$116,000 for the same period in 2005. Of the $56,000 increase, Hemopure-related sales and marketing expenses increased
$44,000 and
Oxyglobin-related sales and marketing expenses increased $12,000. Hemopure expenses consist of
activities in South Africa, where product sales were recently initiated. To support selling in
South Africa, the Company expects Hemopure-related sales and marketing expenses to increase in 2006
compared to 2005. Oxyglobin expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 increased compared to
the same period last year, but the Company does not expect a material increase in these expenses
for the 2006 fiscal year.

General and administrative expenses decreased $1.3 million during the first fiscal quarter of 2006
compared to the same period in 2005 primarily due to a one-time, non-cash
expense of $824,000 in 2005 for a settlement agreement with the former registration holder and
distributor for Hemopure in South Africa. The remaining decrease was
due to a decrease in outside services expense and marginal decreases
in salaries and severance expenses and legal fees
for general corporate and patent matters. The decreases were
partially offset by $197,000 of stock-based compensation recorded under newly adopted Financial
Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123(R). See Note 3 to the condensed consolidated
financial statements for further discussion.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

At January 31, 2006, the Company had $15,151,000 in cash and cash equivalents, which it believes to
be sufficient to fund operations through August 2006. The Company will require significant
additional funding to remain a going concern and to fund operations until such time, if ever, as
it becomes profitable. The Company will continue to explore opportunities to raise capital,
through sales of equity securities and, if appropriate, to consider strategic collaborations for
sharing development and commercialization costs. However, there can be no assurance that adequate
additional financing will be available to the Company on terms that it deems acceptable, if at all.

Net cash used in operating activities decreased $975,000 in the first three months of 2006 compared
to the corresponding period last year primarily due to reduced operating expenses. Cash used in
operating activities was $4.5 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2006, which included a net
loss of $6.4 million, decreased by non-cash charges of $979,000 for depreciation and amortization
and $284,000 for compensation expense related to the issuance of stock options and decreases in
inventory and prepaid expenses of $234,000 and $231,000, respectively.

There were no significant investing activities in the first quarter of 2006 or 2005.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, financing activities provided the Company with $9.15 million
in cash from the sale of common stock and warrants versus the first quarter of fiscal 2005, in
which net proceeds from the sale of common stock and warrants provided it with $24.35 million.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs  ( SFAS No. 151 ), to clarify
the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted
material. This standard requires that such items be recognized as current-period charges. This
standard also establishes the concept of  normal capacity  and requires the allocation of fixed
production overhead to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. Any
unallocated overhead must be recognized as an expense in the period incurred. This standard is
effective for inventory costs incurred starting November 1, 2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 151
has not had a significant impact on the results of operations or
financial position.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,  which replaces
APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes,  and supersedes FASB Statement No. 3,  Reporting
Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements an amendment of APB Opinion No. 28.  SFAS 154
requires retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements of changes in accounting
principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the
cumulative effect of the change. When it is impracticable to determine the period-specific effects
of an accounting change on one or more individual prior periods presented, SFAS 154 requires that
the new accounting principle be applied to the balances of assets and liabilities as of the
beginning of the earliest period for which retrospective application is practicable and that a
corresponding adjustment be made to the opening balance of retained earnings for that period rather
than being reported in an income statement.

18

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION 
Management s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
January 31, 2006 
(continued)

When it is impracticable to determine the cumulative effect of applying a change in accounting
principle to all prior periods, SFAS 154 requires that the new accounting principle be applied as
if it were adopted prospectively from the
earliest date practicable. SFAS 154 shall be effective for accounting changes and corrections of
errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not expect the
provisions of the SFAS 154 will have a significant impact on its
results of operations or its financial position.

On December 16, 2004 the FASB issued SFAS Statement No. 123 (R) (SFAS 123(R)), Share-Based Payment,
which is a revision of SFAS Statement No. 123 (SFAS 123), Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.
SFAS
123(R) supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and amends SFAS No.
95, Statement of Cash Flows. Generally, the approach on SFAS 123(R) is similar to the approach
described in SFAS 123. However, SFAS 123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees,
including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their
fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative.

SFAS 123(R) must be adopted for fiscal years starting after June 15, 2005. As a result, the
Company has adopted SFAS 123(R) starting in its fiscal first quarter of 2006, which began on
November 1, 2005.

As permitted by SFAS 123, the Company historically accounted for share-based payments to
employees using Opinion 25 s intrinsic value method and, as such, generally recognized no
compensation cost for employee stock options. The Company has adopted the  modified prospective 
method alternative outlined in SFAS 123(R). A  modified prospective  method is one in which
compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date (a) based on the requirements of
SFAS 123(R) for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and (b) based on the
requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS
123(R) that remain unvested on the effective date. As a result, the Company is amortizing the
unamortized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested option grants issued prior to the
adoption of SFAS 123(R), whose fair value was calculated utilizing a Black-Scholes Option Pricing
Model. For options granted after the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company has elected to use a
bi-romial model to determine the weighted average fair value of options, rather than the
Black-Scholes model, which it had previously used. In addition, SFAS 123(R) requires companies to
utilize an estimated forfeiture rate when calculating the expense for the period, whereas, SFAS 123
permitted companies to record forfeitures based on actual forfeitures, which was the Company s
historical policy under SFAS 123. As a result, the Company has applied an estimated forfeiture rate
of 4.6% in determining the expense recorded in its consolidated statement of income. For further
information regarding the assumptions the Company used in determining its stock-based compensation
expense, see Note 3 to the financial statements.

During the quarter ended January 31, 2006, the Company has recorded $275,000 of stock-based
compensation expense as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123(R). The stock-based compensation
expense included $41,000 in cost of revenues, $36,000 in research and development, $1,000 in
selling and marketing and $197,000 in general and administrative expense for the three months ended
January 31, 2006. The compensation expense increased both basic and diluted net loss per share by
$0.01. In accordance with the modified-prospective transition method of SFAS 123(R), results for
prior periods have not been restated. As of January 31, 2006, there was $1.9 million of
unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested market-based share awards that is expected
to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.83 years.

19

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION 
Management s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
January 31, 2006 
(continued)

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 

The Company currently does not have foreign currency exchange risks, with the exception of
negligible exchange fluctuations associated with expenses for marketing and regulatory activities
outside of the United States. Biopure sells Oxyglobin to its European distributors in U.S. dollars
and therefore its customers bear the risk of foreign currency exchange fluctuation. Customers in
South Africa will be charged and will pay in South African Rand. The Company expects the foreign
currency exchange fluctuation to be negligible initially, as sales are not expected to be
significant and should be offset by local currency expenses. The Company intends to develop
policies to minimize exchange fluctuation risk if and when sales volume increases. The Company
invests its cash and cash equivalents in money market funds. These investments are subject to
interest rate risk. However, due to the nature of the Company s short-term investments, it believes
that the financial market risk exposure is not significant.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 

(a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. 
Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company s management, including its Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the Company conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) as of the end
of the period covered by this report. Based on this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the
Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of the end of the period covered by this report to ensure that information required to
be disclosed by the Company in its Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms.

(b) Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 
There have been no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting (as defined
under Rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during its most recently completed fiscal
quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, its internal
control over financial reporting.

20

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

Item 1. Legal Proceedings 

The
information in Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements is incorporated herein by reference.

21

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

Our future operating results could differ materially from the results described in this report
due to the risks and uncertainties related to our business, including those discussed below.
Furthermore, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those implied by forward-looking statements. We refer you to our  Cautionary
Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information,  at the beginning of this report, which identifies
the forward-looking statements in this report. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones
we face. Others that we do not know about now, or that we do not now think are important, may
impair our business or the trading price of our securities.

Company Risks 

We have a history of losses and expect future losses.  

We have had annual losses from operations since our inception in 1984. In the fiscal years
ended October 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, we had losses from operations of $47,312,000, $41,832,000
and $29,143,000. We had an accumulated deficit of $505,449,000 as of January 31, 2006. We
anticipate that we will continue to generate losses for the next several years. Even if Hemopure
were to be approved by the FDA or analogous European regulatory authorities, we might not be able
to achieve profitable operations.

We require significant funding in order to continue to operate.  

We expect that our cash on hand at January 31, 2006 will fund operations through August 2006.
Sufficient funds may not be available to us thereafter or on terms that we deem acceptable, if they
are available at all. Our auditors have modified their report for our fiscal year ended October 31,
2005 with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. This modification may negatively
impact our capital raising efforts.

We are required under the Nasdaq Stock Market s Marketplace Rules to obtain stockholder
approval for any issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20 percent
of our total shares of common stock outstanding before the issuance of the securities at a discount
to the greater of book or market value in an offering that is not deemed to be a  public offering 
by Nasdaq. Funding of our operations in the future may require stockholder approval for purposes of
complying with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. We could require such approval to raise additional
funds but might not be successful in obtaining any such required stockholder approval.

Failure to raise sufficient additional funds will significantly impair or possibly cause us
to cease the development, manufacture and sale of our products and our ability to operate.  

The development and regulatory processes for seeking and obtaining approval to market Hemopure
in the United States and the European Union have been and will continue to be costly. We will
require substantial working capital to develop, manufacture and sell Hemopure and to finance our
operations until such time, if ever, as we can generate positive cash flow. If Hemopure is approved
by the FDA or the analogous European regulatory authorities, we expect that we will need to
increase our manufacturing capacity, for which we will require significant additional funding. If
additional financing is not available when needed or is not available on acceptable terms, we may
be unable to successfully develop or commercialize Hemopure or to continue to operate. A sustained
period in which financing is not available could force us to go out of business.

22

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

We
may not be able to continue as a going concern, as our funds are only
sufficient to fund operations into August 2006.  

Our funds on hand, amounts raised subsequent to year-end and forecasted sales for fiscal 2006
at October 31, 2005 were not sufficient to fund our planned operations through fiscal 2006 and, as
a result, the audit report of Ernst   Young LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm,
on our fiscal 2005 consolidated financial statements includes a going concern modification. This
type of modification typically would indicate that our recurring losses from operations and current
lack of sufficient funds to sustain operations through the end of fiscal 2006 raise substantial
doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have
been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the
satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If we became unable to continue as a
going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets and we might receive significantly less than
the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements. Any shortfall in the
proceeds from the liquidation of our assets would directly reduce the amounts, if any, that holders
of our common stock could receive in liquidation.

To remain a going concern, we require significant funding. The inclusion of a going concern
modification in Ernst   Young LLP s audit opinion may materially and adversely affect our stock
price and our ability to raise new capital.

If we cannot retain the personnel we need, our costs will rise significantly. If we cannot
hire or retain the best people, our operations will suffer.  

We may experience the loss of personnel, including executives and other employees, as a result
of attrition, which we have previously experienced. We expect that in the future we will need to
recruit and retain personnel for important positions. We may be unable to do so, in particular if
we are unable to improve our financial position by raising additional capital.

We may fail to obtain FDA approval for Hemopure, in which event we cannot market Hemopure in
the United States, which would have negative consequences for the Company.  

We will not be able to market Hemopure in the United States unless and until we receive FDA
approval. In pursuing both the ischemia and trauma indications for Hemopure, as a prerequisite to
further clinical trials for Hemopure in the United States, we must address FDA questions arising
out of our previously-submitted BLA for an orthopedic surgery indication. Addressing these
questions requires considerable data gathering and analysis. We must rely on contractors to
complete some of the work. We have been delayed, and could be further delayed, in responding either
by the contractors  failure or inability to complete their tasks in a timely manner, or by other
unanticipated delays or difficulties and lack of resources. The FDA may find that responses we may
give and the results of preclinical studies the FDA requested do not adequately address its
questions. In turn, we would be indefinitely unable to pursue development of Hemopure in the United
States, a very large, key market.

Moreover, even if we adequately address the FDA s questions, we will need to obtain FDA
acceptance of the protocols for, and to complete, human clinical trials to obtain FDA approval for
Hemopure for ischemia, and the NMRC will need to obtain acceptance of its protocol for trauma. We
cannot predict when or whether we will submit an IND for an ischemia indication. Consequently, we
do not know whether or when we will be able to commence a U.S. clinical trial of Hemopure for an
ischemia indication, or that we will be able to conduct or satisfactorily conclude additional
clinical trials required to obtain FDA marketing authorization for this indication. In the case of
the trauma indication, the NMRC has primary responsibility for designing and seeking FDA acceptance
of a two-stage Phase 2/3 clinical protocol for trauma in the out-of-hospital setting and is
expected to be principally

23

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

responsible for conducting the trial. The NMRC has filed an IND, and the FDA has put the
proposed trauma protocol on clinical hold. If the FDA ultimately grants acceptance and the trial is
commenced and concluded, the results of the trial may not lead to authorization for marketing
Hemopure for the proposed trauma indication.

In addition, future or existing governmental action or changes in FDA policies or precedents
may result in delays or rejection of an application for marketing approval. The FDA has
considerable discretion in determining whether to grant marketing approval for a drug, and may
delay or deny approval even in circumstances where the applicant s clinical trials have proceeded
in compliance with FDA procedures and regulations and have met the established end points of the
trials. Despite all of our efforts, the FDA could refuse to grant marketing authorization for
Hemopure.

Challenges to FDA determinations are generally time consuming and costly, and rarely succeed.
We can give no assurance that we will obtain FDA marketing authorization for Hemopure for any
indication. The failure to obtain any approval would have severe negative consequences for our
company.

If we fail to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions, we will not be able to
market Hemopure abroad.  

We also intend to seek to market Hemopure in international markets, including the European
Union. Whether or not FDA marketing authorization has been obtained, we must obtain separate
regulatory approvals in order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign
jurisdictions. The regulatory approval processes differ among these jurisdictions, and the time
needed to secure marketing approvals may be even longer than that required for FDA approval. These
applications may require the completion of additional preclinical and clinical studies. Approval in
any one jurisdiction does not ensure approval in a different jurisdiction. As a result, obtaining
foreign approvals will require additional expenditures and significant amounts of time. We can give
no assurance that we will obtain marketing authorization for Hemopure in any foreign jurisdiction
other than that already obtained in South Africa.

Clinical trials are extremely costly and subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.  

To gain regulatory approval from the FDA and European regulatory authorities for the
commercial sale of any product, including Hemopure, we must demonstrate in clinical trials, and
satisfy the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities as to, the safety and efficacy of the product.
Clinical trials are expensive and time-consuming, as is the regulatory review process. Clinical
trials are also subject to numerous risks and uncertainties not within our control. For example,
data we obtain from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations
that could impede regulatory approval. Further, some patients in our clinical trials may have a
high risk of death, age-related disease or other adverse medical events that may not be related to
our product. These events may affect the statistical analysis of the safety and efficacy of our
product. If we obtain marketing authorization for a product, the authorization will be limited to
the indication approved.

In addition, many factors could delay or result in termination of ongoing or future clinical
trials. Results from ongoing or completed preclinical or clinical studies or analyses could raise
concerns over the safety or efficacy of a product candidate. For example, in April 2003 the FDA
placed a proposed Phase 2 clinical trial of Hemopure for the treatment of trauma in the in-hospital
setting on clinical hold citing safety concerns based on a review of data from our Phase 3 clinical
trial in patients undergoing surgery. More recently it placed a clinical hold on a trauma trial
proposed by the NMRC. We cannot assure investors that the FDA will not delay the development of
Hemopure by continuing its current hold or placing other clinical trials we sponsor or others may
sponsor on hold in the future. A clinical trial may also experience slow patient enrollment. The
rate of completion of our clinical trials is dependent in large part on the rate of patient
enrollment. There may be limited availability of patients who meet the criteria for certain
clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and
delays in regulatory approvals. Further, we rely on investigating physicians and the hospital trial
sites to enroll patients. In addition, patients may experience adverse medical events or side effects resulting in delays,
whether or not the events or the side effects relate to the study material, and there may be a real
or perceived lack of effectiveness of, or safety issues associated with, the product we are
testing.

24

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

If we do not have the financial resources to fund trials required to develop Hemopure for
multiple potential indications, our success as a company will be adversely affected.  

We cannot sell Hemopure for any indication unless we receive regulatory approval for that
indication. Regulatory authorities generally require a separate marketing approval for each
proposed indication for the use of Hemopure in the United States. In order to market Hemopure for
more than one indication, we will have to design additional clinical trials, submit the trial
designs to applicable regulatory authorities for review and complete those trials successfully. If
any applicable regulatory authority approves Hemopure for an indication, it may require a label
cautioning against Hemopure s use for indications for which it has not been approved. We may not
have funds available to try to exploit Hemopure for all of its potential indications. Our potential
revenues will be impaired by limitations on Hemopure s use.

The Securities and Exchange Commission has filed a civil injunctive proceeding against us,
two of our former officers and one of our current officers. We and several of our former officers
and former and current directors are subject to consolidated class action lawsuits, and we and
several of our former and current directors and officers are subject to consolidated derivative
actions.  

As discussed in detail above, in September 2005, the SEC filed a civil proceeding against us,
two former officers, and one current officer, following an investigation that began in 2003. The
SEC is seeking a permanent injunction restraining and enjoining the defendants from violating or
aiding and abetting violations of Federal securities laws, a civil monetary penalty from each of
the defendants, and an order barring the former and current officer defendants from serving as
officers or directors of any publicly-traded company. Following our first announcement of the SEC
investigation, a number of lawsuits were filed against us and several of our former and current
directors and officers.

We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of any of these proceedings. Members of our
board of directors and management may spend considerable time and effort defending against any
class action lawsuits, the action brought by the SEC and derivative actions. This expenditure of
time and effort may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
We may incur substantial costs in connection with these proceedings, lawsuits and derivative
actions, including significant legal expenses, fines, judgments or settlements that exceed the
amount of, or are not covered by, our insurance policies. In addition, the uncertainty about the
possible effect of these matters on our financial position and results of operations may adversely
affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital.

The litigation matters described under  Item 3. Legal Proceedings  in our 2005 Annual Report
on     Form 10-K    , and any other litigation matters with which we become involved, may harm our
business and financial condition if they result in substantial fines, judgments or settlements
that exceed the amount of coverage under our insurance policies, or if such fines, judgments or
settlements are not covered by our insurance policies.  

Our director and officer liability insurance policies provide limited liability protection
relating to the SEC action, the securities class actions and derivative lawsuits against us and
certain of our current and former officers and directors. If these policies do not adequately cover
expenses and liabilities relating to these proceedings, our financial condition could be materially
harmed. The lawsuits may make renewal of our director and officer liability insurance in July 2006
or thereafter expensive or unavailable. Increased premiums could materially harm our financial
results in future periods. The inability to obtain this coverage due to its unavailability or
prohibitively expensive premiums would make it more difficult to retain and attract officers and
directors and expose us to potentially self-funding any future liabilities ordinarily mitigated by
director and officer liability insurance.

25

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

The U.S. Department of Labor is currently investigating our medical plan and 401(k) plan
(capital accumulation plan). We have provided plan documents and other information to the
Department in response to the Department s requests, which appear at this time to be routine.

If we cannot find appropriate marketing partners, we may not be able to market and distribute
Hemopure effectively.  

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to market and distribute Hemopure effectively. We
have no experience in the sale or marketing of medical products for humans. In the event that we
obtain FDA approval of Hemopure, we may choose initially to market Hemopure using an independent
distributor. Any such distributor:

might not be successful in marketing Hemopure; 

might, at its discretion, limit the amount and timing of resources it devotes to marketing Hemopure; and 

might terminate its agreement with us and abandon our products at any time whether or not
permitted by the applicable agreement. 

If we do not enter into a satisfactory distributorship agreement, we may be required to seek
an alternative arrangement such as an alliance with a pharmaceutical company, or recruiting,
training and retaining a marketing staff and sales force of our own. We may not be successful in
obtaining satisfactory distributorship agreements or entering into alternative arrangements.
Although we have entered into a distributor agreement in South Africa, we are experiencing slow
sales of Hemopure there. If we fail to establish a revenue stream in South Africa, we might have to
withdraw from that market.

If we cannot generate adequate, profitable sales of Hemopure, we will not be successful.  

To succeed, we must develop Hemopure commercially and sell adequate quantities of Hemopure at
a high enough price to generate a profit. We may not accomplish either of these objectives. To
date, we have focused our efforts on developing Hemopure, establishing its safety and efficacy and
seeking marketing approval. Uncertainty exists regarding the potential size of the market for
Hemopure and the price that we can charge for it. Additionally, the size of the market will be
affected by the indication(s) for which Hemopure is approved and will be greatly reduced if
reimbursement for the cost of Hemopure is not available from health insurance companies or
government programs.

If we cannot obtain market acceptance of Hemopure, we will not be able to generate adequate,
profitable sales.  

Even if we succeed in obtaining marketing approval for Hemopure, a number of factors may
affect future sales of our product. These factors include:

whether and how quickly physicians accept Hemopure as a cost-effective and therapeutic
alternative to other products; 

whether medical care providers or the public accept the use of a bovine-derived protein
as a therapeutic in ischemia or any other indication particularly in light of public
perceptions in the United States, Europe and elsewhere about the risk of  mad cow disease.  

product price, which we believe is an important factor in South Africa and could be
elsewhere. 

26

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

If we fail to comply with good manufacturing practices, we may not be able to sell our
products.  

To obtain the approval of the FDA and European regulatory authorities to sell Hemopure, we
must demonstrate to them that we can manufacture Hemopure in compliance with the applicable good
manufacturing practices, commonly known as GMPs. GMPs are stringent requirements that apply to all
aspects of the manufacturing process. We are subject to inspections of the FDA and European
regulatory authorities at any time to determine whether we are in compliance with GMP requirements.
If we fail to manufacture in compliance with GMPs, these regulatory authorities may refuse to
approve Hemopure or revoke approval of Oxyglobin or may take other enforcement actions with respect
to Hemopure or Oxyglobin.

The manufacturing process for Hemopure is complicated and time-consuming, and we may
experience problems that would limit our ability to manufacture and sell Hemopure.  

Our products are biologics and require product manufacturing steps that are more complicated,
time-consuming and costly than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. Accordingly, we
utilize multiple devices to control the manufacturing processes. Minor deviations in these
manufacturing processes or other problems could result in unacceptable changes in the products that
result in lot failures, increased production scrap, shipment delays, product recalls or product
liability, all of which could negatively impact our results of operations.

We will face risks, including the risk of scale-up of our processes, in the construction of
any new manufacturing capacity, and in turn could encounter delays, higher than usual rejects,
additional reviews and tests of units produced and other costs attendant to an inability to
manufacture saleable product.

If we were unable to use our manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts or Pennsylvania, we
would not be able to manufacture for an extended period of time.  

We manufacture at a single location located in Massachusetts with raw material sourcing and
initial processing in Pennsylvania. Damage to either of these manufacturing facilities due to fire,
contamination, natural disaster, power loss, riots, unauthorized entry or other events could cause
us to cease manufacturing. For example, if our Massachusetts manufacturing facility were destroyed,
it could take approximately two years or more to rebuild and qualify it. In the reconstruction
period, we would not be able to manufacture product and thus would have no supply of Hemopure for
research and development, clinical trials or sales after we use up all finished goods in our
inventory. A new facility would take even longer to construct.

If Hemopure receives regulatory approval, we must expand our manufacturing capacity to
develop our business, which will require substantial third party financing. Failure to increase
our manufacturing capacity may impair Hemopure s market acceptance and prevent us from achieving
profitability.  

If Hemopure is approved by the FDA or European regulatory authorities, we will need to
construct new manufacturing capacity to develop our business. The increase in our manufacturing
capacity is dependent upon our obtaining substantial financing from third parties. Third parties
can be expected to be unwilling to commit to finance a new manufacturing facility so long as we do
not have approval of the FDA or European regulatory authorities to market Hemopure. We cannot
assure that sufficient financing for new manufacturing capacity will be available or, if available,
will be on terms that are acceptable to us. We expect that, once we had the required significant
financing in place, it would take 30 to 36 months, or more, to build a large Hemopure manufacturing
facility and to qualify and obtain facility approval from the FDA or European regulatory
authorities.

27

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

If Hemopure is approved for marketing in a major market and receives market acceptance, we may
experience difficulty manufacturing enough of the product to meet demand. The manufacturing
processes we currently employ to produce small quantities of material for research and development
activities and clinical trials may not be successfully scaled up for production of commercial quantities at a reasonable cost or at all.
If we cannot manufacture sufficient quantities of Hemopure, we may not be able to build our
business or operate profitably. In addition, if we cannot fill orders for Hemopure, customers might
turn to alternative products and may choose not to use Hemopure even after we have addressed any
capacity shortage.

If we are not able to finance additional manufacturing capacity, we will incur a substantial
write-off of assets.  

We have made a substantial investment in a planned manufacturing facility. If we cannot
finance such a facility, we will be required to write off that investment, and our financial
condition will be impaired.

Our lack of operating history makes evaluating our business difficult.  

Proceeds from the sales of equity securities, payments to fund our research and development
activities, licensing fees, and interest income have provided almost all of our funding to date. We
have no operating history of selling Hemopure upon which to base an evaluation of our business and
prospects.

If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, competition could force us to lower
our prices, which might reduce profitability.  

We believe that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, including our
proprietary know-how, will be important to our success. Accordingly, the success of our business
will depend, in part, upon our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement by
third parties. We cannot guarantee that our intellectual property rights will protect us adequately
from competition from similar products or that additional products or processes we discover or seek
to commercialize will receive adequate intellectual property protection.

In addition, third parties may successfully challenge our intellectual property. We have not
filed patent applications in every country. In certain countries, obtaining patents for our
products, processes and uses may be difficult or impossible. Patents issued in regions other than
the United States and Europe may be harder to enforce than, and may not provide the same protection
as, patents obtained in the United States and Europe.

Failure to avoid infringement of others  intellectual property rights could impair our
ability to manufacture and market our products.  

We cannot guarantee that our products and manufacturing process will be free of claims by
third parties alleging that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. Several third
parties hold patents with claims to compositions comprising polymerized hemoglobin and their
methods of manufacture and use. One or more of these third parties may assert that our activities
infringe claims under an existing patent. Any such claim could be expensive and time-consuming to
defend, and an adverse litigation result or a settlement of litigation could require us to pay
damages, obtain a license from the complaining party or a third party, develop non-infringing
alternatives or cease using the challenged trademark, product or manufacturing process. Any such
result could be expensive or result in a protracted plant shutdown, in turn adversely affecting our
ability to operate profitably.

There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any intellectual property infringement
action, will be able to obtain a license to any third party intellectual property on commercially
reasonable terms, successfully develop non-infringing alternatives on a timely basis, or license
alternative non-infringing trademarks, products, or manufacturing processes, if any exist, on
commercially reasonable terms. Any significant intellectual property impediment to our ability to
develop and commercialize Hemopure would seriously harm our business and prospects.

28

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

Our profitability will be adversely affected if we incur product liability claims in excess
of our insurance coverage.  

The testing and marketing of medical products, even after regulatory approval, have an
inherent risk of product liability. We maintain limited product liability insurance coverage in the
total amount of $20,000,000. However, our profitability would be adversely affected by a successful
product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage.

We cannot guarantee that product liability insurance in adequate coverage amounts will be
available in the future or be available on terms we could afford to pay.

Replacing our sole source suppliers for key materials could result in unexpected delays and
expenses.  

We obtain some key materials, including membranes and chemicals, and services from sole source
suppliers. All of these materials are commercially available elsewhere. If such materials or
services were no longer available at a reasonable cost from our existing suppliers, we would need
to purchase substitute materials from new suppliers. If we need to locate a new supplier, the
substitute or replacement materials or facilities will need to be tested for equivalency. Such
equivalency tests could significantly delay development of a product, delay or limit commercial
sales of approved products and cause us to incur additional expense.

We obtain bovine hemoglobin from one abattoir, from animals grown in several states of the
United States. We cannot predict the future effect, if any, on us of the spread of bovine
spongiform encephalopathy ( mad cow  disease) in the United States. Any quarantine affecting herds
that supply us or a shutdown of the abattoir we source from could have a material adverse effect on
us, as we would have to find, validate and obtain regulatory approval of new sources of supply or
new facilities.

Changes in the securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs.  

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which became law in July 2002, has required changes in some of
our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the
requirements of that Act, the SEC and the Nasdaq have promulgated new rules and listing standards
covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules and listing standards has increased
our general and administrative costs, and we expect to continue to experience increased costs.
These developments also may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and
officer liability insurance. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to
attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors,
or qualified executive officers.

As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring
public companies to include a report of management on a company s internal controls over financial
reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the
effectiveness of the company s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the public
accounting firm auditing a company s financial statements must attest to and report on management s
assessment of the effectiveness of the company s internal controls over financial reporting. This
requirement applied to our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended October 31, 2005,
for which our independent registered accounting firm provided an unqualified report. If our
independent registered public accounting firm does not provide us with an unqualified report as to
the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for one or more future
year-ends, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which
could result in a decrease in the value of our securities.

29

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws could impair or delay
stockholders  ability to replace or remove our management and could discourage takeover
transactions that a stockholder might consider to be in its best interest.  

Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as our
stockholder rights plan, could impede attempts by stockholders to remove or replace our management
or could discourage others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change of control
transaction, including a potential transaction at a premium over market price that a stockholder
might consider to be in its best interest. In particular:

Our restated certificate of incorporation does not permit stockholders to take action by
written consent and provides for a classified board of directors, and our by-laws provide
that stockholders who wish to bring business before an annual meeting of stockholders or to
nominate candidates for election of directors at an annual meeting of stockholders must
deliver advance notice of their proposals to us before the meeting. These provisions could
make it more difficult for a party to replace our board of directors by requiring two annual
stockholder meetings to replace a majority of the directors, making it impossible to remove
or elect directors by written consent in lieu of a meeting and making it more difficult to
introduce business at meetings. 

Our stockholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging any person or group that
wishes to acquire more than 20 percent of our Class A common stock from doing so without
obtaining our agreement to redeem the rights. If our agreement to redeem the rights is not
obtained, the acquiring person or group would suffer substantial dilution. 

Industry Risks 

Intense competition could harm our financial performance.  

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. There are a number of
companies, universities and research organizations actively engaged in research and development of
products that may be similar to, or alternatives to, Hemopure for trauma or ischemia indications.
We are aware that one public company competitor, Northfield Laboratories Inc., is in the advanced
stages of testing a hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier produced from human blood that has passed its
expiration date for human transfusion. Northfield s product is in a Phase 3 clinical trial for a
trauma indication. We are also aware that other companies are conducting preclinical studies and
clinical trials of hemoglobin-based or perfluorocarbon oxygen carriers. The products being
developed by these companies are intended for use in humans and as such could compete, if approved
by regulatory authorities, with Hemopure. We may also encounter competition in ischemia indications
from medical devices and drugs on the market or currently under development.

Increased competition could diminish our ability to become profitable or affect our
profitability in the future. Our existing and potential competitors:

are conducting clinical trials of their products; 

might have or be able to access substantially greater resources than we have and be
better equipped to develop, manufacture and market their products; 

may have their products approved for marketing prior to Hemopure; and 

may develop superior technologies or products rendering our technology and products
non-competitive or obsolete. 

30

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

Stringent, ongoing government regulation and inspection of our products could lead to delays
in the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products.  

The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities continue to regulate products even after they
receive marketing authorization. If the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority approves Hemopure,
its manufacture and marketing will be subject to ongoing regulation, including compliance with
current good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting requirements and general prohibitions
against promoting products for unapproved or  off-label  uses. We would also be subject to
inspection and market surveillance by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for compliance
with these and other requirements. We are subject to such regulation, inspection and surveillance
in South Africa. Any enforcement action resulting from failure, even by inadvertence, to comply
with these requirements could affect the manufacture and marketing of Hemopure. In addition, the
FDA or foreign regulatory authorities could withdraw a previously approved product from the
applicable market(s) upon receipt of newly discovered information. Furthermore, the FDA or foreign
regulatory authorities could require us to conduct additional, and potentially expensive, studies
in areas outside our approved indications. Also, unanticipated changes in existing regulations or
the adoption of new regulations could affect and make more expensive the continued manufacturing
and marketing of our products.

Health care reform and controls on health care spending may limit the price we can charge for
Hemopure and the amount we can sell.  

The federal government and private insurers have considered ways to change, and have changed,
the manner in which health care services are provided in the United States. Potential approaches
and changes in recent years include controls on health care spending and the creation of large
purchasing groups. In the future, it is possible that the government may institute price controls
and limits on Medicare and Medicaid spending. These controls and limits might affect the payments
we collect from sales of our products. Assuming we succeed in bringing Hemopure to market,
uncertainties regarding future health care reform and private market practices could affect our
ability to sell Hemopure in large quantities at profitable pricing in the United States and abroad.

Uncertainty of third-party reimbursement could affect our profitability.  

Sales of medical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients  medical expenses by
governmental health care programs and private health insurers. Even if Hemopure is approved for
marketing, there is no guarantee that governmental health care programs or private health insurers
would reimburse for purchases of Hemopure, or reimburse a sufficient amount to permit us to sell
Hemopure at high enough prices to generate a profit.

Investment Risks 

We may not continue to qualify for continued listing on the Nasdaq National Market, which may
cause the value of an investment in our company to substantially decrease.  

We may be unable to meet the listing requirements of the Nasdaq National Market. To maintain
our listing on the Nasdaq National Market, we are required, among other things, to maintain a daily
closing bid price per share of at least $1.00. On December 19, 2005, we received notice from the
Nasdaq Stock Market that the closing bid price of our Class A common stock had fallen below and
remained below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. As a result, we are out of compliance with
the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued inclusion of our Class A common stock in the
Nasdaq National Market. Under Nasdaq rules, we have until June 19, 2006 to regain compliance by
having the bid price of our Class A common stock close at $1.00 per share or more for at least 10
consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance by June 19, 2006, our Class A common
stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. Delisting would adversely affect the trading
price and limit the liquidity of our Class A common stock and therefore cause the value of an
investment in our company to decrease

31

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

substantially. Alternatively, we may apply to transfer our Class A common stock to the Nasdaq
Capital Market, provided we meet all requirements for initial listing on that market except for the
bid price requirement. If the application is approved, we would be afforded the remainder of this
market s second 180 calendar day compliance period in order to regain compliance with the $1.00
minimum bid price requirement. If we transfer our securities to the Nasdaq Capital Market and do
not demonstrate compliance within the second 180 day compliance period, we will be issued a
delisting letter.

As we sell additional shares, our stock price may decline as a result of the dilution which
will occur to existing stockholders.  

Until we are profitable, we will need significant additional funds to develop our business and
sustain our operations. Any additional sales of shares of our common stock are likely to have a
dilutive effect on some or all of our then existing stockholders. Subsequent sales of these shares
in the open market could also have the effect of lowering our stock price, thereby increasing the
number of shares we may need to issue in the future to raise the same dollar amount and
consequently further diluting our outstanding shares.

The perceived risk associated with the possible sale of a large number of shares could cause
some of our stockholders to sell their stock, thus causing the price of our stock to decline. In
addition, actual or anticipated downward pressure on our stock price due to actual or anticipated
sales of stock could cause some institutions or individuals to engage in short sales of our common
stock, which may itself cause the price of our stock to decline.

If our stock price declines, we may be unable to raise additional capital. A sustained
inability to raise capital could force us to go out of business. Significant declines in the price
of our common stock could also impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, reduce
the liquidity of our common stock and result in the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq
National Market.

Shares eligible for future sale may cause the market price for our common stock to drop
significantly, even if our business is doing well.  

We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock or the
availability of shares for future sale will have on the market price of our common stock from time
to time. Substantially all of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock are freely tradeable
in the public market, unless held by our affiliates. Other shares of our common stock issued in the
future, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants, may become
available for resale in the public market from time to time, and the market price of shares of our
common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by
the market as intending to sell them.

Our stock price has been and may continue to be highly volatile, which may adversely affect
holders of our stock and our ability to raise capital.  

The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be extremely
volatile. During the period from November 1, 2002 through January 31, 2006, the trading price of
our stock ranged from a low of $0.64 per share (on December 21, 2005) to a high of $54.179 per
share (on August 1, 2003). Our stock price and trading volume could be subject to wide fluctuations
in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following:

failure to identify and hire key personnel or the loss of key personnel; 

an inability to obtain or the perception that we will be unable to obtain adequate
financing to fund our operations; 

32

Table of Contents   

BIOPURE CORPORATION

Part II   Other Information 
January 31, 2006

FDA action or delays in FDA action on Hemopure or competitors  products; 

the outcome of litigation; 

publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under
development by us or our competitors; 

actual or potential preclinical or clinical trial results relating to products under
development by us or our competitors; 

delays in our testing and development schedules; 

announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors; 

developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; 

regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; 

economic and other factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; 

market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks; and 

additional, future communications from the Nasdaq Stock Market concerning delisting or
potential delisting. 

External factors may also adversely affect the market price for our common stock. The price and
liquidity of our common stock may be significantly affected by the overall trading activity and
market factors impacting small capitalization biotechnology stocks generally.

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. 

None

Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities 

None

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

None

Item 5. Other Information. 

None

Item 6. Exhibits 

The exhibits are listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index.

33

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

BIOPURE CORPORATION 

Date: March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ Francis H Murphy 

Francis H. Murphy 

Chief Financial Officer 

34

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

* 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended April 30,
2005, and incorporated herein by reference thereto. 

** 
       
     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Registration Statement on Form
S-1 (File No. 333-78829) and
incorporated herein by reference thereto. 

35

<EX-31.1>
 2
 b59588bcexv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.E.O.

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

Certification Pursuant To 
Rules 13a-14(a) And 15d-14(a) Under The Securities Exchange Act Of 1934, As Amended 

I, Zafiris G. Zafirelis, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Biopure Corporation (the
 Registrant  

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this quarterly report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have: 

(a)     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

(b)     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

(c)     Evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d)     Disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a)     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

(b)     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting 

Date: March 13, 2006  
     /s/ Zafiris G. Zafirelis

Zafiris G. Zafirelis  

Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 b59588bcexv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.F.O.

exv31w2 

Exhbit 31.2 

Certification Pursuant To 
Rules 13a-14(a) And 15d-14(a) Under The Securities Exchange Act Of 1934, As Amended 

I, Francis H. Murphy, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Biopure Corporation (the
 Registrant  

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this quarterly report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have: 

(a)     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

(b)     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

(c)     Evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d)     Disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a)     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

(b)     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting 

Date: March 13, 2006  
     /s/ Francis H. Murphy

Francis H. Murphy  

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 b59588bcexv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.E.O.

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Biopure Corporation
for the quarter ended January 31, 2006, I, Zafiris G. Zafirelis, Chief Executive
Officer, hereby certify, to the best of my knowledge, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
1350, as adopted pursuant to 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

1.     the Form 10-Q for the period ended January 31, 2006, fully complies with
the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934; and

2.     the information contained in the Form 10-Q for the period ended January
31, 2006 fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of Biopure Corporation.

/s/ Zafiris G. Zafirelis

Zafiris G. Zafirelis 
Chairman of the Board, President 
And Chief Executive Officer  

March 13, 2006

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 b59588bcexv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.F.O.

exv32w2 

EXHIBIT 32.2

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Biopure Corporation
for the quarter ended January 31, 2006, I, Francis H. Murphy, Chief Financial
Officer, hereby certify, to the best of my knowledge, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
1350, as adopted pursuant to 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

1.     the Form 10-Q for the period ended January 31, 2006, fully complies with
the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934; and

2.     the information contained in the Form 10-Q for the period ended
January 31, 2006 fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of Biopure Corporation.

/s/ Francis H. Murphy

Francis H. Murphy 
Chief Financial Officer 

March 13, 2006

</EX-32.2>

