<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060313_10-Q_edgar_data_805305_0000892569-06-000244_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>403922</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>80549</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>195914</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>29</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000892569-06-000244.hdr.sgml : 20060313
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060313160650
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000892569-06-000244
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060313
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060313

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			QUIKSILVER INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000805305
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MEN'S & BOYS' FURNISHINGS, WORK CLOTHING, AND ALLIED GARMENTS [2320]
		IRS NUMBER:				330199426
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14229
		FILM NUMBER:		06682238

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		15202 GRAHAM STREET
		CITY:			HUNTINGTON BEACH
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92649
		BUSINESS PHONE:		714-889-2200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		15202 GRAHAM STREET
		CITY:			HUNTINGTON BEACH
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92649

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BHLYTq1W5W15v7de2TsEhMTVJMFwDdchdCz9OnZY43bT8zIm3Hz7MW5cDZNGNyVC
 PBkcOFeVz76nUoXNnExIcA==

 0000892569-06-000244.txt : 20060313

10-Q
 1
 a18524e10vq.htm
 FORM 10-Q

e10vq 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

( Mark One) 

For the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006 

OR 

Commission file number 1-14229 

QUIKSILVER, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware  
( State or other jurisdiction of 
incorporation or organization)

33-0199426  
(I.R.S. Employer 
Identification Number) 

15202 Graham Street 
Huntington Beach, California 
92649  
(Address of principal executive offices) 
(Zip Code)

(714) 889-2200  
(Registrant s telephone number, including area code)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days . Yes
    No     

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large
Accelerated Filer     
                    
 Accelerated Filer                            Non-Accelerated Filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act ). Yes       No

The number of shares outstanding of Registrant s Common Stock, 
par value $0.01 per share, at 
March 6, 2006 was 
122,036,050

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 

FORM 10-Q 
INDEX 

1

Table of Contents   

PART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1. Financial Statements 

QUIKSILVER, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  

(Unaudited) 

See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

2

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  

(Unaudited) 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
(Unaudited) 

See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

3

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

(Unaudited) 

See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

4

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1.  
       
      Basis of Presentation  

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information
and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they
do not include all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted
accounting principles for complete financial statement presentation.

Quiksilver, Inc. (the  Company ), in its opinion, has included all adjustments, consisting
only of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of the results of
operations for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005. The condensed consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto should be read in conjunction with the audited
financial statements and notes for the year ended October 31, 2005 included in the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for
the full year due to seasonal and other factors.

2.  
       
      New Accounting Pronouncements  

In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 151,  Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No.
43, Chapter 4 . SFAS No. 151 clarifies that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense,
freight, handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as
current-period charges and requires the allocation of fixed production overheads to
inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 did
not have a significant impact on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of
operation or cash flows.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,  which
replaces APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes,  and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting Accounting
Changes in Interim Financial Statements.  SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in
accounting principles and requires retrospective application (a term defined by the
statement) to prior periods  financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine
the effect of a change. It also applies to changes required by an accounting pronouncement
that does not include specific transition provisions. SFAS No. 154 is effective for
accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2005. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 154 in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, but does
not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 154 to have a material impact on its financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R)  Share-Based Payment . SFAS No.
123(R) requires that companies recognize compensation expense equal to the fair value of
stock options or other share based payments. The Company adopted this standard during the
three months ended January 31, 2006 using the modified prospective method. See Note 3 for a
description of the impact of this standard on the Company s financial statements.

3.  
       
      Stock Based Compensation  

On November 1, 2005, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No.
123(R). Prior to November 1, 2005, the Company had accounted for stock-based payments under
the recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion 25
and related interpretations, as permitted by SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.  In accordance with APB 25, no compensation expense was required to be
recognized for options granted that had an exercise price equal to the market value of the
underlying common stock on the date of grant.

Under the modified prospective method of SFAS No. 123(R), compensation expense was
recognized during the three months ended January 31, 2006 and includes compensation expense
for all stock-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of November 1, 2005, based
on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original
provisions of SFAS No. 123 and compensation expense for all stock based payments granted
after November 1, 2005, based 

5

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). The Company s financial results for the prior periods have
not been restated.

As a result of adopting SFAS No. 123(R), during the three months ended January 31, 2006, the
Company s net income is $4.1 million lower than if it had continued to account for stock
based compensation under APB 25 as it did for the three months ended January 31, 2005.
Basic and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended January 31, 2006 would have
been $0.19 and $0.18, respectively, if the Company had not adopted SFAS No. 123(R), compared
to basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.15 and $0.15, respectively. Compensation
expense was included as selling, general and administrative expense for the period. The
impact on cost of goods sold was not significant. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) had no
impact on the Company s cash flows.

Consistent with the valuation method used for the disclosure only provisions of SFAS No.
123, the Company is using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to value compensation
expense. Forfeitures are estimated at the date of grant based on historical rates and
reduce the compensation expense recognized. The expected term of options granted is derived
from historical data on employee exercises. The risk-free interest rate is based on the
U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the date of grant. Expected volatility is based on
the historical volatility of the Company s stock. For the three months ended January 31,
2006 and 2005 options were valued assuming risk-free interest rates of 4.5% and 4.1%,
respectively, volatility of 44.9% and 54.2%, respectively, zero dividend yield, and expected
lives of 5.2 years. The weighted average fair value of options granted was $6.32 and $7.47
for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company records
stock compensation expense using the graded vested method over the vesting period, which is
generally three years. As of January 31, 2006, the Company had approximately $29.6 million
of unrecognized compensation expense expected to be recognized over a weighted average
period of approximately 1.2 years.

The reported net income and net income per share for the three months ended January 31, 2005
have been presented below to reflect the impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) had the
Company been required to adopt this standard for the three months ended January 31, 2005.

6

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

4.  
       
      Inventories  

Inventories consist of the following: 

5.  
       
      Intangible Assets and Goodwill  

A summary of intangible assets is as follows:

Certain trademarks and licenses will continue to be amortized by the Company using
estimated useful lives of 10 to 25 years with no residual values. Intangible amortization
expense for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 was $1.4 million and $0.6
million, respectively. Annual amortization expense is estimated to be approximately $5.3
million in the fiscal year ending October 31, 2006, approximately $5.0 million in the fiscal
year ending October 31, 2007 and approximately $3.8 million in the fiscal years ending
October 31, 2009 and 2010. Goodwill related to the Company s geographic segments is as
follows:

Goodwill increased $6.0 million during the three months ended January 31, 2006, primarily as
a result of the Rossignol and other acquisitions and increased $0.8 million due to the
effect of foreign currency exchange rates.

6.  
       
      Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  

The components of accumulated other comprehensive income include net income, changes in fair
value of derivative instruments qualifying as cash flow hedges, the fair value of interest
rate swaps and foreign currency translation adjustments. The components of accumulated
other comprehensive income, net of tax, are as follows:

7

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

7.  
       
      Segment Information  

Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial
information is available that is evaluated regularly by the Company s management in deciding
how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company operates in the outdoor
market of the sporting goods industry in which the Company designs, produces and distributes
clothing, winter sports and golf equipment, footwear, accessories and related products. The
Company operates in three geographic segments, the Americas, Europe and Asia/Pacific. Costs
that support all three geographic segments, including trademark protection, trademark
maintenance and licensing functions are part of corporate operations. Corporate operations
also includes sourcing income and gross profit earned from the
Company s licensees. The Company s largest customer
accounted for approximately 4% of the Company s net revenues.

Information related to the Company s geographical segments is as follows:

8.  
       
      Derivative Financial Instruments  

The Company is exposed to gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates relating to certain sales, royalty income, and product purchases of
its international subsidiaries that are denominated in currencies other than their
functional currencies. The Company is also exposed to foreign currency gains and losses
resulting from domestic transactions that are not denominated in U.S. dollars, and to
fluctuations in interest rates related to its variable rate debt. Furthermore, the Company
is exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates have on the reported results in the Company s consolidated financial
statements due to the translation of the operating results and financial position of the
Company s international subsidiaries. As part of its overall strategy to manage the level of exposure to the risk of fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates, the Company uses various foreign currency exchange contracts and
intercompany loans. In addition, interest rate swaps are used to manage the Company s
exposure to the risk of fluctuations in interest rates.

8

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting but are used by management to mitigate
exposure to currency risks are marked to fair value with corresponding gains or losses
recorded in earnings. A gain of $0.1 million was recognized related to these types of
contracts during the three months ended January 31, 2006. For all qualifying cash flow
hedges, the changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recorded in other comprehensive
income. As of January 31, 2006, the Company was hedging forecasted transactions expected to
occur through November 2007. Assuming exchange rates at January 31, 2006 remain constant,
$1.8 million of gains, net of tax, related to hedges of these transactions are expected to
be reclassified into earnings over the next 22 months. Also included in accumulated other
comprehensive income at January 31, 2006 is the fair value of interest rate swaps, totaling
a loss of $0.1 million, net of tax, which is related to the Company s U.S. dollar
denominated long-term debt, which matures through fiscal 2007.

On the date the Company enters into a derivative contract, management designates the
derivative as a hedge of the identified exposure. The Company formally documents all
relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk-management
objective and strategy for entering into various hedge transactions. In this documentation,
the Company identifies the asset, liability, firm commitment, or forecasted transaction that
has been designated as a hedged item and indicates how the hedging instrument is expected to
hedge the risks related to the hedged item. The Company formally measures effectiveness of
its hedging relationships both at the hedge inception and on an ongoing basis in accordance
with its risk management policy. The Company would discontinue hedge accounting
prospectively (i) if management determines that the derivative is no longer effective in
offsetting changes in the cash flows of a hedged item, (ii) when the derivative expires or
is sold, terminated, or exercised, (iii) if it becomes probable that the forecasted
transaction being hedged by the derivative will not occur, (iv) because a hedged firm
commitment no longer meets the definition of a firm commitment, or (v) if management
determines that designation of the derivative as a hedge instrument is no longer
appropriate. During the three months ended January 31, 2006, the Company reclassified into
earnings a net gain of $0.7 million resulting from the expiration, sale, termination, or
exercise of derivative contracts.

The Company enters into forward exchange and other derivative contracts with major banks and
is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by these banks. The Company
anticipates, however, that these banks will be able to fully satisfy their obligations under
the contracts. Accordingly, the Company does not obtain collateral or other security to
support the contracts.

A summary of derivative contracts at January 31, 2006 is as follows:

9.  
       
      Business Acquisitions  

Effective July 31, 2005, the Company acquired Skis Rossignol SA ( Rossignol ), a
wintersports and golf equipment manufacturer. Rossignol offers a full range of wintersports
equipment under the Rossignol, Dynastar, Lange, Look and Kerma brands, and also sells golf
products under the Cleveland Golf and Never Compromise brands. The Company has included the
operations of Rossignol in its results since August 1, 2005. The purchase price, excluding transaction
costs, included cash of approximately $208.3 million, approximately 2.2 million restricted
 shares of the Company s common stock, valued at $28.9 million, a deferred purchase price
obligation of approximately $32.5 million, a liability of approximately $16.9 million for
the mandatory purchase of approximately 0.7 million outstanding public shares of Rossignol
representing less than 5% of the share capital of Rossignol, and a liability of
approximately $2.0 million for the estimated fair value of 0.1 million fully vested
Rossignol stock options. Estimated transaction costs totaled

9

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

approximately $16.0 million.
The valuation of the common stock issued in connection with the acquisition was based on its
quoted market price for 5 days before and after the announcement date, discounted to reflect
the estimated effect of its trading restrictions. The deferred purchase price obligation is
expected to be paid in 2010 and will accrue interest equal to the 3-month euro interbank
offered rate ( Euribor ) plus 2.35% (currently 4.65%). The mandatory purchase of the
remaining Rossignol shares was required under French law as the Company had obtained over
95% of the outstanding shares of Rossignol through a combination of share purchases,
including a public tender offer. The purchase of these shares was completed in the quarter
ended October 31, 2005 and the Company now owns 100% of the shares in Rossignol. Upon the
future exercise of the Rossignol stock options, the Company will purchase the newly issued
shares from the Rossignol stock option holders, retaining 100% ownership in Rossignol.
These Rossignol stock options are treated as variable for accounting purposes and subsequent
changes in the value of these stock options are recorded as compensation expense in the
Company s consolidated statement of income. The Company acquired a majority interest in
Cleveland Golf when it acquired Rossignol, but certain former owners of Cleveland Golf
retained a minority interest of 36.37%. The Company and the minority owners have entered
into a put/call arrangement whereby the minority owners of Cleveland Golf can require the
Company to buy all of their interest in Cleveland Golf after 4.5 years and the Company can
buy their interest at its option after 7 years, each at a purchase price generally
determined by reference to a multiple of Cleveland Golf s annual profits and the Company s
price-earnings ratio. As a result of the minority interest and put/call arrangement, the
Company will account for Cleveland Golf as a step acquisition. In a step acquisition, where
less than 100% of an entity is acquired, only a portion of the fair value adjustments are
recorded in the acquiring company s balance sheet equal to the percentage ownership in the
acquired company. Based on this step acquisition accounting, the Company has recorded
63.63% of the fair value adjustments for Cleveland Golf in its balance sheet. Goodwill
arises from synergies the Company believes can be achieved integrating Rossignol s brands,
products and operations with the Company s, and is not expected to be deductible for income
tax purposes. Amortizing intangibles consist of customer relationships, patents and athlete
contracts with estimated useful lives of twenty, seven and two years, respectively. The
acquired trademarks are non-amortizing as they have been determined to have indefinite
lives.

The allocation of purchase price is based on preliminary estimates and is subject to change
(see Note 11). The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and
the liabilities assumed at the date of the Rossignol acquisition in accordance with the
purchase method of accounting:

10

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

In connection with the acquisition of Rossignol, the Company has formulated the Rossignol
Integration plan ( the Plan ). As of January 31, 2006 the Company has recognized
approximately $29.6 million of liabilities related to the plan. See Note 11 for further
description of the Plan.

 Effective August 1, 2005, the Company acquired 11 retail stores in Australia from Surfection
Pty Ltd, Manly Boardriders Pty Ltd. and Sydney Boardriders Pty Ltd. ( Surfection ). The
operations of Surfection have been included in the Company s results since August 1, 2005.
The initial purchase price, excluding transaction costs, included cash of approximately
$21.4 million. Transaction costs totaled approximately $1.0 million. The sellers are
entitled to additional payments ranging from zero to approximately $17.1 million if certain
sales and margin targets are achieved through September 30, 2008. The amount of goodwill
initially recorded for the transaction would increase if such contingent payments are made.
Goodwill arises from synergies the Company believes can be achieved through Surfection s
retail expertise and store presence in key locations in Australia, and is not expected to be
deductible for income tax purposes. Amortizing intangibles consist of non-compete
agreements with estimated useful lives of five years.

The allocation of purchase price is based on preliminary estimates and is subject to change
based on the finalization of the purchase price allocation. The following table summarizes
the fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the date of the
Surfection acquisition in accordance with the purchase method of accounting:

The
Company paid cash of approximately $13.1 million during the
three months ended January 31, 2006, of which $5.8 million
relates to a payment to the former owners of the Asia/Pacific
business and the remaining $7.3 million relates primarily to acquisitions of certain other distributors and retail store locations.

10.
   Indemnities and Guarantees 

During its normal course of business, the Company has made certain indemnities, commitments
and guarantees under which it may be required to make payments in relation to certain
transactions. These include (i) intellectual property indemnities to the Company s
customers and licensees in connection with the use, sale and/or license of Company products,
(ii) indemnities to various lessors in connection with facility leases for certain claims
arising from such facility or lease, (iii) indemnities to vendors and service providers
pertaining to claims based on the negligence or willful misconduct of the Company, and (iv)
indemnities involving the accuracy of representations and warranties in certain contracts.
The duration of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees varies, and in certain cases,
may be indefinite. The majority of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees do not
provide for any limitation of the maximum potential for future payments the Company could be
obligated to make. The Company has not recorded any liability for these indemnities,
commitments and guarantees in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

11.  
       
      Rossignol Integration Plan and Pre-acquisition Restructuring Plan  

In connection with the acquisition of Rossignol, the Company has formulated the Rossignol
Integration Plan (the  Plan ). The Plan covers the global operations of newly acquired
Rossignol and the Company s existing businesses, and it includes the evaluation of facility
relocations, nonstrategic business activities, redundant functions and other related items.
The Company has not finalized the Plan, but as of January 31, 2006 has recognized
approximately $29.6 million of liabilities related to the Plan, including employee
relocation and severance costs, moving costs, and other costs related primarily to the
consolidation of Rossignol s administrative headquarters in Europe and the relocation of the
Company s wintersports equipment sales and distribution

11

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

operations in the United States.
These liabilities were included in the allocation of the purchase price for Rossignol in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 141,  Business
Combinations  and EITF Issue No. 95-3,  Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a
Purchase Business Combination . Costs that are not associated with the acquired company but
relate to activities or employees of the Company s existing operations are charged to
earnings as incurred. Certain facilities owned by the acquired company are expected to be
sold in connection with the Plan, while others are anticipated to be refinanced through
sale-leaseback arrangements. Assets currently held for sale, primarily in the United States
and France, total approximately $23.3 million at January 31, 2006. The Plan has not been
finalized as it relates primarily to manufacturing and distribution facilities outside of
the United States, and the Company s estimates of expected costs related to the U.S. aspects
of the Plan may change. Accordingly, as uncertainties related to the Plan are resolved,
additional liabilities related to facility relocations, the elimination of nonstrategic
business activities and redundant functions, and other related costs could be recognized.
These uncertainties are expected to be resolved within one year of the consummation date of
the acquisition, and when determined, additional liabilities could be significant and would
be recorded as adjustments to goodwill. If the Company has overestimated these costs, the
excess will reduce goodwill in future periods. Conversely, if the Company has
underestimated these costs, additional liabilities recognized more than one year after the
consummation date of the acquisition will be recorded in earnings.

Activity and liability balances recorded as part of the Plan are as follows:

Prior to the acquisition of Rossignol, a restructuring plan was announced related to
Rossignol s French manufacturing facilities ( Pre-acquisition Restructuring Plan ). The
costs associated with the Pre-acquisition Restructuring Plan consist of termination benefits
achieved through voluntary early retirement and voluntary termination of certain employees.

Activity and liability balances recorded as part of the Pre-acquisition Restructuring Plan
are as follows:

12

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

12.  
       
      Condensed Consolidating Financial Information  

The Company has $400 million in publicly registered senior notes. Obligations under the
Company s senior notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by certain of its existing
domestic subsidiaries. Cleveland Golf is expected to be added as a guarantor subsidiary
during the three months ended April 30, 2006. The Company is required to present condensed
consolidating financial information for Quiksilver, Inc. and its domestic subsidiaries
within the notes to the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the criteria
established for parent companies in the SEC s Regulation S-X, Rule 3-10(f). The following
condensed consolidating financial information presents the results of operations, financial
position and cash flows of Quiksilver Inc., its guarantor subsidiaries, its non-guarantor
subsidiaries and the eliminations necessary to arrive at the information for the Company on
a consolidated basis as of January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005 and for the three months
ended January 31, 2006 and 2005. The principal elimination entries eliminate investments in
subsidiaries and intercompany balances and transactions. Prior to November 1, 2004, certain
of the Company s guarantor subsidiaries did not exist and were created as part of an
internal restructuring on that date. As a result, information presented prior to November
1, 2004 contains certain allocations between Quiksilver, Inc. and its guarantor subsidiaries
to conform to the current subsidiary structure under which the guarantees exist. Due to the
seasonality of the Company s quarterly operations, management has applied the estimated
consolidated annual effective income tax rate to both the guarantor and non-guarantor
subsidiaries for interim reporting purposes. In our consolidated financial statements for
the fiscal year ending October 31, 2006, management will apply the actual income tax rate to
both the guarantor and non-guarantor subsidiaries. These interim tax rates may differ from
the actual annual effective income tax rates for both the guarantor and non-guarantor
subsidiaries.

13

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET 
At January 31, 2006 

14

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET 
At October 31, 2005 

15

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME 
Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 

16

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME 
Three Months Ended January 31, 2005 

17

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW 
Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 

18

Table of Contents   

QUIKSILVER, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW 
Three Months Ended January 31, 2005 

19

Table of Contents   

PART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Unless the context indicates otherwise, when we refer to  Quiksilver ,  we ,  us ,  our , or the
 Company  in this Form 10-Q, we are referring to Quiksilver, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our
unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto contained elsewhere
in this report. The information contained in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q is not a complete
description of our business or the risks associated with an investment in our securities. We
urge you to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us in this report and in
our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005 and subsequent reports on Form 8-K, which discuss our
business in greater detail. The section entitled  Risk Factors  set forth in Item 1A of our Annual
Report on Form 10-K, and similar discussions in our other SEC filings, discuss some of the
important risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
You should carefully consider those risks, in addition to the information in this report and in
our other filings with the SEC, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our securities.

We began operations in 1976 as a California company making boardshorts for surfers in the United
States under a license agreement with the  Quiksilver  brand founders in Australia. Our product
offering expanded in the 1980s as we grew our distribution channels. After going public in 1986
and purchasing the rights to the  Quiksilver  brand in the United States from our Australian
licensor, we further expanded our product offerings and began to diversify. In the early 1990s,
we acquired the European licensee of  Quiksilver  and introduced  Roxy , our surf brand for teenage
girls. We also expanded demographically in the 1990s by adding products for boys, girls, toddlers
and men, and we introduced our proprietary retail store concept, Boardriders Clubs, which displays
the heritage and products of  Quiksilver  and  Roxy . In 2000, we acquired the international
 Quiksilver  and  Roxy  trademarks, and in 2002, we acquired our licensees in Australia and Japan. In
May 2004, we acquired DC Shoes to expand our presence in action sports-inspired footwear.

In July 2005, we acquired Skis Rossignol, S.A., a wintersports and golf equipment manufacturer.
Rossignol offers a full range of wintersports equipment under the  Rossignol ,  Dynastar ,  Lange ,  Look 
and  Kerma  brands, and also sells golf products under the  Cleveland Golf  and  Never Compromise 
brands. The acquisition was effective July 31, 2005 and we have included the operations of
Rossignol in our results since August 1, 2005. In July 2005, we issued $400 million in senior
notes that bear a coupon interest rate of 6.875% and are due April 15, 2015. These senior notes
were used to fund a portion of the Rossignol purchase price and to refinance certain existing
indebtedness.

Over the past 35 years, Quiksilver has been established as a leading global brand representing the
casual, youth lifestyle associated with boardriding sports. With our acquisition of Rossignol, we
have added a collection of leading ski equipment brands to our company that we believe will be the
foundation for a full range of technical ski apparel, sportswear and accessories. Also, as part of
our acquisition of Rossignol, we acquired a majority interest in Roger Cleveland Golf Company,
Inc., a leading producer of wedges and golf clubs in the United States.

We believe that our acquisition of Rossignol provides us with multiple authentic brands in both
snow and golf. Rossignol s technical knowledge, combined with our current lifestyle brands, will
enable us to produce and market apparel, equipment, footwear, accessories and related products for
consumers in a broad cross section of the outdoor market. Furthermore, we believe the combination
of our existing global expertise in branded apparel and footwear, along with Rossignol s expertise
in branded wintersports equipment, provide us with a diversified platform for continued growth and
enhanced operating efficiencies. Our products are sold throughout the world, primarily in surf
shops, ski shops snow shops, skate shops and specialty stores.

Our acquisition of Rossignol has had, and is expected to continue to have a significant impact on
our financial results. Our revenues and expenses have increased substantially. However, our
overall profit margins have been negatively impacted because Rossignol has historically generated
lower profit margins than we have, and this trend is expected to continue in the foreseeable future. In
addition, Rossignol s business has historically been seasonal, with revenues and operating profits
generally higher in August

20

Table of Contents   

through December, which will affect our consolidated quarterly results.
We are substantially more leveraged as a result of the debt incurred in connection with the
acquisition, and we have an increased amount of capital committed to manufacturing functions.

We operate in the outdoor market of the sporting goods industry in which we design, produce and
distribute branded apparel, wintersports and golf equipment, footwear, accessories and related
products. We operate in three geographic segments, the Americas, Europe and Asia/Pacific. The
Americas segment includes revenues primarily from the U.S. and Canada. The European segment
includes revenues primarily from Western Europe. The Asia/Pacific segment includes revenues
primarily from Australia, Japan, New Zealand and Indonesia.

We operate in markets that are highly competitive, and our ability to evaluate and respond to
changing consumer demands and tastes is critical to our success. If we are unable to remain
competitive and maintain our consumer loyalty, our business will be negatively affected. We
believe that our historical success is due to the development of an experienced team of designers,
artists, sponsored athletes, engineers, technicians, researchers, merchandisers, pattern makers,
and contractors. Our team and the heritage and current strength of our brands has helped us remain
competitive in our markets. Our success in the future will depend on our ability to continue to
design products that are acceptable to the marketplace and competitive in the areas of quality,
brand image, technical specifications, distribution methods, price, customer service, and
intellectual property protection.

Results of Operations  

The table below shows the components in our statements of income and other data as a percentage of
revenues:

(1)  
       
     EBITDA is defined as net income before (i) interest expense, (ii)
income tax expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization, and (iv) non-cash stock based
compensation expense. EBITDA is not defined under generally accepted accounting
principles ( GAAP ), and it may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by
other companies. We use EBITDA, along with other GAAP measures, as a measure of
profitability because EBITDA helps us to compare our performance on a consistent basis by
removing from our operating results the impact of our capital structure, the effect of
operating in different tax jurisdictions, the impact of our asset base, which can differ
depending on the book value of assets and the accounting methods used to compute
depreciation and amortization, and the effect of non-cash stock based compensation
expense. We believe it is useful to investors for the same reasons. EBITDA has
limitations as a profitability measure in that it does not include the interest expense on
our debts, our provisions for income taxes, the effect of our expenditures for capital
assets and certain intangible assets and the effect of non-cash compensation expense.
Following is a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA: 

21

Table of Contents   

Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 Compared to Three Months Ended January 31, 2005 

Our total net revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2006 increased 58% to $541.1 million
from $342.9 million in the comparable period of the prior year. The Rossignol and Cleveland
businesses, which were acquired on July 31, 2005, accounted for $191.7 million of our consolidated
revenue growth for the three months ended January 31, 2006. Revenues in the Americas increased 39%
to $220.7 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006 from $159.3 million in the comparable
period of the prior year, and European revenues increased 97% to $261.2 million from $132.6 million
for those same periods. As measured in euros, Quiksilver Europe s primary functional currency,
revenues in the current year s quarter increased 118% compared to the prior year. Asia/Pacific
revenues increased 16% to $58.3 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006 from $50.5
million for the three months ended January 31, 2005. As measured in Australian dollars, Quiksilver
Asia/Pacific s primary functional currency, revenues increased 20% for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 compared to the three months ended January 31, 2005.

In the Americas, revenues in our men s category, which includes the Quiksilver Young Men s, Boys,
Toddlers, Quiksilveredition, and DC brands, increased 14% to $83.8 million from $73.3 million in
the comparable period of the prior year, while revenues in our women s category, which includes the
Roxy, Roxy Girl, Teenie Wahine, DC, Raisins, Leilani and Radio Fiji brands, decreased 1% to $83.6
million from $84.7 million. Revenues from our wintersports and golf equipment brands which include
Rossignol, Dynastar, Look, Lange, Kerma, Cleveland Golf, Never Compromise, Lib Technologies, Gnu,
Bent Metal and Roxy equipment, totaled $193.3 million for the current year s quarter compared to
$1.3 million in the comparable period of the prior year. The increase in the Americas men s
revenues came primarily from an increase in DC and to a lesser extent from the Quiksilver brand.
The decrease in the Americas women s revenues came primarily from growth in Roxy which was more
than offset by a decrease in revenue due to our discontinuation of our private label swimwear
product line. The increase in wintersports and golf equipment revenue came primarily from the
newly acquired Rossignol and Cleveland Golf businesses. In Europe, and as reported in dollars,
men s revenues decreased 9% to $88.2 million from $96.9 million, while women s revenues increased
27% to $45.4 million from $35.7 million. Our wintersports and golf equipment revenue totaled
$127.5 million. The European men s revenues decrease was primarily due to foreign exchange rate
fluctuations. As measured in euros, European men s revenues increased 1%. The women s revenue
increase reflects growth in Roxy partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange rate
fluctuations. As measured in euros, European women s revenue increased 41%. Our European
wintersports and golf equipment revenue was due to the newly acquired Rossignol and Cleveland Golf
businesses. In Asia/Pacific, the increase in revenues came primarily from the newly acquired
Rossignol and Cleveland Golf business partially offset by decreases in our other brand revenues due
primarliy to general economic weakness in Australia.

Our consolidated gross profit margin for the three months ended January 31, 2006 increased to 45.9%
from 44.6% in the comparable period of the prior year. The Americas  gross profit margin increased
to 39.8% from 39.2%, while the European gross profit margin increased to 51.6% from 49.5%, and the
Asia/Pacific gross profit margin decreased to 44.2% from 48.1% for those same periods. The
increase in the Americas  gross profit margin was due primarily to a higher percentage of sales
through company owned retail stores where we earn both the wholesale and retail margins and
improved margins on our DC products, partially offest by higher sales from our wintersports and
golf equipment businesses, which operate at lower gross margins than our other businesses. Our
European gross profit margin increased primarily from the impact of foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations and a higher percentage of sales through company-owned retail stores, which was
partially offset by sales of our lower margin wintersports and golf equipment businesses. In Asia/Pacific, the
 gross profit margin decrease was
primarily due to sales of our lower margin wintersports and golf equipment businesses slightly offset by a
higher percentage of sales through company-owned retail stores.

Our selling, general and administrative expense ( SG A ) for the three months ended January 31,
2006 increased 63% to $211.3 million from $129.5 million in the comparable period of the prior
year. Americas  SG A increased 56% to $83.8 million from $53.7 million in the comparable period of the prior year,
while European SG A increased 81% to $91.5 million from $50.7 million, and Asia/Pacific SG A
increased 35% to $22.8 million from $16.9 million for those same periods. As a percentage of
revenues, SG A

22

Table of Contents   

increased to 39.0% for the three months ended January 31, 2006 from 37.8% for the
three months ended January 31, 2005.

This consolidated increase in SG A as a percentage of revenues was primarily due to stock based
compensation recorded in the current period as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123(R). In addition,
increased marketing expense and the cost of additional retail stores as a percentage of revenues
were largely offset by our newly acquired wintersports and golf equipment businesses, which
operated with lower SG A as a percentage of revenues than our other businesses during the three
months ended January 31, 2006, which is a seasonally high shipping period.

Interest expense for the three months ended January 31, 2006 increased to $12.6 million from $1.8
million in the comparable period of the prior year. This increase was primarily due to debt
incurred and assumed in connection with the acquisition of Rossignol.

Our foreign currency gain amounted to $0.5 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006
compared to a loss of $0.5 million in the comparable period of the prior year. This gain resulted
primarily from the foreign currency contracts we used to hedge the risk of translating the results
of our international subsidiaries into U.S. dollars.

The effective income tax rate for the three months ended January 31, 2006, which is based on
current estimates of the annual effective income tax rate, decreased to 29.5% from 32.2% in the
comparable period of the prior year. This improvement resulted primarily because a higher
percentage of our 2006 profits are expected to be generated in countries with lower tax rates and
from foreign tax credits.

Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2006 increased 31% to $18.6 million or $0.15 per
share on a diluted basis from $14.2 million or $0.12 per share on a diluted basis in the comparable
period of the prior year and as adjusted for the two-for-one stock split effected in May 2005.
Basic net income per share also increased to $0.15 per share for the three months ended January 31,
2006 from $0.12 per share in the comparable period of the prior year. EBITDA increased 97% to
$60.2 million from $30.6 million for those same periods.

Financial Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity  

We generally finance our working capital needs and capital investments with operating cash flows
and bank revolving lines of credit. Multiple banks in the United States, Europe and Australia make
these lines of credit available to us. Term loans are also used to supplement these lines of
credit and are typically used to finance long-term assets. In fiscal 2005, we issued $400 million
of senior notes to fund a portion of the Rossignol purchase price and to refinance certain existing
indebtedness.

Cash
Flows 

 We generated $72.5 million of cash from operating activities in the three months ended January 31,
2006 compared to $14.0 million in the three months ended January 31, 2005. This $58.5 million
increase in cash provided was primarily due to changes in accounts receivable and inventories net
of changes in accounts payable. During the three months ended January 31, 2006, the decrease in
trade accounts receivable generated cash of $60.6 million compared to $30.5 million in the
comparable period of the prior year, an increase in cash provided of $30.1 million. The increase
in inventories net of the increase in accounts payable used cash of $10.8 million in the three
months ended January 31, 2006 compared to $21.3 million used in the comparable period of the prior
year, a net decrease in cash used of $10.5 million. The increase in cash provided by net income
adjusted for non-cash expenses and other working capital changes was $17.9 million.

Capital expenditures totaled $13.0 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006, compared to
$10.2 million in the comparable period of the prior year. These investments include company-owned
stores and ongoing investments in computer and warehouse equipment. We used $13.1 million in cash
for acquisitions, of which $5.8 million relates to a payment to the former owners of our
Asia/Pacific business and the remaining $7.3 million relates primarily to acquisitions of certain other
distributors and retail store locations.

23

Table of Contents   

During the three months ended January 31, 2006, net cash used in financing activities totaled $12.6
million, compared to cash provided of $32.0 million in the comparable period of the prior year.
Borrowings decreased as we generated increased cash from our operating activities.

The net increase in cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended January 31, 2006 was $33.8
million compared to $27.4 million in the comparable period of the prior year. Cash and cash
equivalents totaled $109.4 million at January 31, 2006 compared to $75.6 million at October 31,
2005, while working capital was $469.4 million at January 31, 2005 compared to $458.9 million at
October 31, 2005. We believe our current cash balance and current lines of credit are adequate to
cover our seasonal working capital and other operating requirements for the foreseeable future and
that increases in our lines of credit or other financing can be obtained as needed to fund future
growth.

Trade
Accounts Receivable and Inventories 

 Our trade accounts receivable decreased 11% to $533.5 million at January 31, 2006 from $599.5
million at October 31, 2005. Accounts receivable in the Americas decreased 15% to $231.2 million
at January 31, 2006 from $273.0 million at October 31, 2005, while European accounts receivable
decreased 4% to $253.7 million from $263.8 million, and Asia/Pacific accounts receivable decreased
22% to $48.6 million from $62.7 million for those same periods. Our January 31, 2006 balance
includes $241.8 million of accounts receivable from our newly acquired Rossignol and Cleveland Golf
businesses. Accounts receivable related to our other businesses compared to January 31, 2005,
increased 24% in the Americas, 8% in Europe and 17% in Asia/Pacific. The increase in accounts
receivable related to all three segments primarily relates to higher revenues and the timing of
shipments. Included in accounts receivable are approximately $37.1 million of value added tax and
goods and services tax related to foreign accounts receivable. Such taxes are not reported as net
revenues and as such, must be deducted from accounts receivable to accurately compute days sales
outstanding. Overall average days sales outstanding increased by approximately 21 days at January
31, 2006 compared to January 31, 2005. Of this increase, 12 days related to our newly acquired
wintersports and golf equipment businesses and the remaining 9 days related to higher revenues and
the timing of shipments in our other businesses.

Consolidated inventories increased 5% to $406.5 million at January 31, 2006 from $386.4 million at
October 31, 2005. Inventories in the Americas increased 3% to $169.8 million from $164.4 million
at October 31, 2005, while European inventories increased 7% to $188.7 million from $176.9 million,
and Asia/Pacific inventories increased 7% to $ 48.1 million from $45.1 million for those same
periods. Our January 31, 2006 inventory balance includes $159.1 million in inventories from our
newly acquired Rossignol and Cleveland Golf businesses. Inventories related to our other
businesses compared to January 31, 2006, decreased 10% in the Americas, while inventories in Europe
increased 12%, and inventories in Asia/Pacific increased 43% for that same period. The increase in
our European and Asia/Pacific inventories primarily relates to the increase in inventories due to
additional retail locations. Consolidated average annual inventory turnover was approximately 3.4
at January 31, 2006 compared to approximately 3.8 at January 31, 2005. Excluding the effect of the
Rossignol and Cleveland Golf inventories, average inventory turnover remained consistent at 3.8.

Commitments 

 We paid $5.8 million related to the achievement of certain sales and earnings targets to the former
owners of our Asia/Pacific business during the three months ended January 31, 2006. This amount
represents the final payment related to this acquisition.

In connection with the acquisition of Rossignol, we have formulated the Rossignol Integration Plan
(the  Plan ). The Plan covers the global operations of Rossignol and our existing businesses, and
it includes the evaluation of facility relocations, nonstrategic business activities, redundant
functions and other related items. We have not finalized the Plan, but as of January 31, 2006 we
had recognized $29.6 million of liabilities related to the Plan, including employee relocation and
severance costs, moving costs, and other costs related primarily to the consolidation of
Rossignol s administrative headquarters in Europe and the relocation of our wintersports equipment sales and distribution operations in the
United States. Costs that are not associated with Rossignol but relate to activities or employees
of our existing operations will be charged to earnings as incurred. Certain facilities owned by
Rossignol are expected to be sold in connection with the Plan, while others are anticipated to be
refinanced through sale-leaseback arrangements. Assets currently held for sale, primarily in the
United States and France, totaled

24

Table of Contents   

approximately $23.3 million at January 31, 2006. The Plan has
not been finalized as it relates to facilities outside of the United States, and our estimates of
expected costs related to the U.S. aspects of the Plan may change. Accordingly, as uncertainties
related to the Plan are resolved, additional liabilities related to facility relocations, the
elimination of nonstrategic business activities and redundant functions, and other related costs
could be recognized. These uncertainties are expected to be resolved within one year of the
consummation date of the acquisition, and when determined, additional liabilities could be
significant and would be recorded as adjustments to goodwill. If we have overestimated these
costs, the excess will reduce goodwill in future periods. Conversely, if we have underestimated
these costs, additional liabilities recognized more than one year after the consummation date of
the acquisition will be recorded in earnings.

Critical Accounting Policies  

Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. To prepare these financial statements, we must
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. These
estimates also affect our reported revenues and expenses. Judgments must also be made about the
disclosure of contingent liabilities. Actual results could be significantly different from these
estimates. We believe that the following discussion addresses the accounting policies that are
necessary to understand and evaluate our reported financial results.

Revenue Recognition 

 Revenues are recognized when the risk of ownership and title passes to our customers. Generally,
we extend credit to our customers and do not require collateral. None of our sales agreements with
any of our customers provide for any rights of return. However, we do approve returns on a
case-by-case basis at our sole discretion to protect our brands and our image. We provide
allowances for estimated returns when revenues are recorded, and related losses have historically
been within our expectations. If returns are higher than our estimates, our earnings would be
adversely affected.

Stock-Based
Compensation Expense 

 Effective November 1, 2005, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123(R), using
the modified prospective transition method, and therefore have not restated prior periods  results.
Under this method we recognize compensation expense for all stock-based payments granted after
November 1, 2005 and prior to but not yet vested as of November 1, 2005, in accordance with SFAS
123(R). Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123(R), we recognize stock-based
compensation net of an estimated forfeiture rate and only recognize compensation cost for those
shares expected to vest using the graded vested method over the requisite service period of the
award. Prior to SFAS 123(R) adoption, we accounted for stock-based payments under Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 ) and
accordingly, we were not required to recognize compensation expense for options granted that had an
exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant.

Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based payment
awards require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the
stock-based payment awards and stock price volatility. We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model to value compensation expense. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of
stock-based payment awards represent management s best estimates, but the estimates involve
inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change
and we use different assumptions, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially
different in the future. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for a
further discussion on stock-based compensation.

Accounts Receivable 

 It is not uncommon for some of our customers to have financial difficulties from time to time.
This is normal given the wide variety of our account base, which includes small surf shops,
medium-sized retail chains, and some large department store chains. Throughout the year, we perform
credit evaluations of our customers, and we adjust credit limits based on payment history and the
customer s current creditworthiness. We continuously monitor our collections and maintain a
reserve for estimated credit

25

Table of Contents   

losses based on our historical experience and any specific customer
collection issues that have been identified. Historically, our losses have been consistent with
our estimates, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to experience the same credit
loss rates that we have experienced in the past. Unforeseen, material financial difficulties of
our customers could have an adverse impact on our profits.

Inventories 

 We value inventories at the cost to purchase and/or manufacture the product or the current
estimated market value of the inventory, whichever is lower. We regularly review our inventory
quantities on hand, and adjust inventory values for excess and obsolete inventory based primarily
on estimated forecasts of product demand and market value. Demand for our products could fluctuate
significantly. The demand for our products could be negatively affected by many factors, including
the following:

weakening economic conditions; 

terrorist acts or threats; 

unanticipated changes in consumer preferences; 

reduced customer confidence in the retail market; and 

unseasonable weather. 

Some of these factors could also interrupt the production and/or importation of our products or
otherwise increase the cost of our products. As a result, our operations and financial performance
could be negatively affected. Additionally, our estimates of product demand and/or market value
could be inaccurate, which could result in an understated or overstated provision required for
excess and obsolete inventory.

Long-Lived Assets 

 We acquire tangible and intangible assets in the normal course of our business. We evaluate the
recoverability of the carrying amount of these long-lived assets (including fixed assets,
trademarks licenses and other amortizable intangibles) whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be
recognized when the carrying value exceeds the undiscounted future cash flows estimated to result
from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Impairments, if any, would be recognized in
operating earnings. We continually use judgment when applying these impairment rules to determine
the timing of the impairment tests, the undiscounted cash flows used to assess impairments, and the
fair value of a potentially impaired asset. The reasonableness of our judgment could significantly
affect the carrying value of our long-lived assets.

Goodwill 

 We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill at least annually based on a two-step impairment test.
The first step compares the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount including
goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds fair value, then the second step of the impairment test is
performed to measure the amount of any impairment loss. Fair value is computed based on estimated
future cash flows discounted at a rate that approximates our cost of capital. Such estimates are
subject to change, and we may be required to recognize impairment losses in the future.

Income Taxes 

 Current income tax expense is the amount of income taxes expected to be payable for the current
year. A deferred income tax asset or liability is established for the expected future consequences
of temporary differences in the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. We
consider future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in
assessing the value of our deferred tax assets. If we determine that it is more likely than not
that these assets will not be realized, we would reduce the value of these assets to their expected
realizable value, thereby decreasing net income. Evaluating the value of these assets is
necessarily based on our judgment. If we subsequently determined that the deferred tax assets,
which had been written down would, in our judgment, be realized in the future, the value of the
deferred tax assets would be increased, thereby increasing net income in the period when that
determination was made.

26

Table of Contents   

Foreign Currency Translation 

 A significant portion of our revenues are generated in Europe, where we operate with the euro as
our functional currency, and a smaller portion of our revenues are generated in Asia/Pacific, where
we operate with the Australian dollar and Japanese Yen as our functional currencies. Our European
revenues in the United Kingdom are denominated in British pounds, and some European and
Asia/Pacific product is sourced in U.S. dollars, both of which result in exposure to gains and
losses that could occur from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our assets and liabilities
that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange on the balance
sheet date. Revenues and expenses are translated using the average exchange rate for the period.
Gains and losses from translation of foreign subsidiary financial statements are included in
accumulated other comprehensive income or loss.

As part of our overall strategy to manage our level of exposure to the risk of fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates, we enter into various foreign exchange contracts generally in the
form of forward contracts. For all contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges, we record the
changes in the fair value of the derivatives in other comprehensive income. We also use other
derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting to mitigate our exposure to currency risks.
These derivatives are marked to fair value with corresponding gains or losses recorded in earnings.

New Accounting Pronouncements  

See Note 2
  New Accounting Pronouncements for a discussion of future pronouncements that may
affect our financial reporting.

Forward-Looking Statements  

All statements included in this report, other than statements or characterizations of historical
fact, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements
regarding the trends and uncertainties in our financial condition and results of operations. These
forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about
our industry, management s beliefs, and certain assumptions made by us and speak only as of the
date of this report. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as
 anticipates,   expects,   intends,   plans,   predicts,   believes,   seeks,   estimates,   may, 
 will,   should,   would,   could,   potential,   continue,   ongoing,  and similar expressions,
and variations or negatives of these words. In addition, any statements that refer to
expectations, projections, guidance, forecasts or other characterizations of future events or
circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. These
statements are not guarantees of future results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and
assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, our actual results could differ materially
and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement as a result of various factors,
including, but not limited to, the following:

our ability to achieve the financial results that we anticipate, or have experienced in the past; 

our ability to fully realize the benefits we anticipate from our acquisition of Rossignol; 

the impact of our substantial leverage on our ability to generate cash flows or obtain financing to fund our
anticipated growth strategies and the cost of such financing; 

our plans to expand internationally; 

our intention to introduce new products and enter into new joint ventures; 

our plans to open new retail stores; 

payments due on contractual commitments; 

future expenditures for capital projects; 

our ability to continue to maintain our brand image and reputation; 

our ability to remain compliant with our debt covenants; 

integration of acquired businesses and future acquisitions; 

general economic and business conditions; 

foreign exchange rate fluctuations; and 

changes in political, social and economic conditions and local regulations, particularly in Europe and Asia. 

27

Table of Contents   

Given these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place too much weight on such statements.
We are not obligated to update these forward-looking statements.

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Foreign Currency  

We are exposed to financial statement gains and losses as a result of translating the operating
results and financial position of our international subsidiaries. We translate the local currency
statements of income of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using the average exchange rate
during the reporting period. Changes in foreign exchange rates affect our reported profits and
distort comparisons from period to period. By way of example, when the U.S. dollar strengthens
compared to the euro, there is a negative effect on our reported results for Quiksilver Europe
because it takes more profits in euros to generate the same amount of profits in stronger U.S.
dollars. In addition, the statements of income of Quiksilver Asia/Pacific are translated from
Australian dollars and Japanese yen into U.S. dollars, and there is a negative effect on our
reported results for Quiksilver Asia/Pacific when the U.S. dollar is stronger in comparison to
Australian dollar or Japanese yen.

European revenues increased 118% in euros during the three months ended January 31, 2006 compared
to the three months ended January 31, 2005. As measured in U.S. dollars and reported in our
consolidated statements of income, European revenues increased 97% as a result of a stronger U.S.
dollar versus the euro in comparison to the prior year.

Asia/Pacific revenues increased 20% in Australian dollars during the three months ended January 31,
2006 compared to the three months ended January 31, 2005. As measured in U.S. dollars and reported
in our consolidated statements of income, Asia/Pacific revenues increased 16% as a result of a
stronger U.S. dollar versus the Australian dollar in comparison to the prior year.

Our other foreign currency and interest rate risks are discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended October 31, 2005 in Item 7A.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) that are designed to ensure
that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act, is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms,
and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures,
management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated,
can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management
necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of
possible controls and procedures.

We carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of January 31, 2006, the end of
the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the
reasonable assurance level as of January 31, 2006.

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended January 31, 2006 that
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting.

28

Table of Contents   

PART
II   OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 6. Exhibits 

(a)  Exhibits 

29

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

QUIKSILVER, INC., a Delaware corporation 

March 13, 2006

/s/ Steven L. Brink 

Steven L. Brink 

Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 

(Principal Accounting Officer) 

30

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

<EX-10.1>
 2
 a18524exv10w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.1

exv10w1 

Exhibit 10.1 

January 25, 2006 Amendment to Long-Term Incentive Plan

On January 25, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Quiksilver, Inc. (the
 Company ) granted awards to the Company s Chief Executive Officer and its President pursuant to
the terms of the Company s Long-Term Incentive Plan. The awards are for the performance period
beginning November 1, 2005 and ending October 31, 2008 and provide for the payment of cash bonuses
at the end of the performance period if the Company achieves specified levels of earnings per share
growth during the performance period over the Company s earnings per share for fiscal 2005.

</EX-10.1>

<EX-31.1>
 3
 a18524exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

302 CERTIFICATION 

I, Robert B. McKnight, certify that:

(1) I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Quiksilver, Inc.;

(2) Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

(3) Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;

(4) The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a. Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b. Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c. Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report, based on such
evaluation; and

d. Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

(5) The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors
and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions):

a. All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b. Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 13, 2006

/s/ Robert B. McKnight, Jr. 

Robert B. McKnight, Jr. 

Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 4
 a18524exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

302 CERTIFICATION 

I, Steven L. Brink, certify that:

(1) I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Quiksilver, Inc.;

(2) Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

(3) Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;

(4) The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a. Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b. Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c. Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report, based on such
evaluation; and

d. Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

(5) The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors
and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions):

a. All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b. Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 13, 2006

/s/ Steven L. Brink 

Steven L. Brink 

Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 5
 a18524exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2003 

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Quiksilver, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q for the
period ending January 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), I, Robert B. McKnight, Jr., Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2003, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

/s/ Robert B. McKnight, Jr.

Robert B. McKnight, Jr.

Chief Executive Officer

March 13, 2006

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 6
 a18524exv32w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2003 

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Quiksilver, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q for the
period ending January 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), I, Steven L. Brink, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2003, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

</EX-32.2>

