<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060313_10-Q_edgar_data_946581_0001125282-06-001610_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1006995</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>177202</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2696</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>617195</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>34</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001125282-06-001610.hdr.sgml : 20060313
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060313164915
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001125282-06-001610
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060313
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060313

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			TAKE TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000946581
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				510350842
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-29230
		FILM NUMBER:		06682604

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		622 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10012
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2125362842

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		622 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10012

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 IiFZrDYjn5nXdaBgpWjG3Ghn3LHU2DVvTli2keOHcbeasQVDgkrqFrotrtcsNlTv
 6dtjN6IUfL8og+pAzYwLag==

 0001125282-06-001610.txt : 20060313

10-Q
 1
 b412197_ten-q.htm
 FORM 10-Q

Prepared and filed by St Ives Burrups 

Click here to Index   

UNITED STATES   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549  

FORM 10-Q  

QUARTERLY REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF   THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF l934.   

For the  quarterly period ended January 31, 2006  

Commission  file number 0-29230  

TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC.        (Exact Name  of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)   

Delaware  

51-0350842  

(State or    Other Jurisdiction     of Incorporation or Organization)  

(I.R.S.    Employer     Identification No.)  

622 Broadway, New York, New York 10012      (Address of  principal executive offices including zip code)   

Registrant s Telephone Number, Including Area Code (646)  536-2842  

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports  required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of  1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing  requirements for the past 90  days.     Yes         No     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file  reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the  Act.   Yes         No     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated  filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of   accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange  Act).   Large Accelerated Filer         Accelerated  Filer         Non-Accelerated  Filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as  defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).   Yes           No     

As of March 7, 2006, there were 71,525,426 shares of the Registrant s  Common Stock outstanding. 

Click here to Cover   

INDEX  

PART I.   

FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

Item 1.  

Financial Statements  

Condensed Consolidated Balance    Sheets   As of January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005 (unaudited)  

1  

Condensed Consolidated Statements    of Operations   For the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005    (unaudited)  

2  

Condensed Consolidated Statements    of Cash Flows   For the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005    (unaudited)  

3  

Condensed Consolidated Statements    of Stockholders  Equity   For the year ended October 31, 2005 and the three    months ended January 31, 2006 (unaudited)  

5  

Notes to Unaudited Condensed    Consolidated Financial Statements  

6  

Item 2.  

Management s Discussion and    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

21  

Item 3.  

Quantitative and Qualitative    Disclosures About Market Risk  

34  

Item 4.  

Controls and Procedures  

34  

PART II.   

OTHER INFORMATION   

Item 1.  

Legal Proceedings  

36  

Item 1A.  

Cautionary Statement and Risk    Factors  

38  

Item 6.  

Exhibits  

46  

Signatures  

Back to Index   

PART  I.     FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Item  1.     Financial Statements  

TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES     Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)    As of January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005   (In thousands, except share and per share data) 

The  accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited condensed consolidated  financial statements.  

1 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES     Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited)    For the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005    (In thousands, except per share data) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited  condensed consolidated financial statements.  

2 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES     Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)    For the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005   (In thousands) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited  condensed consolidated financial statements.  

3 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

    Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) (continued)  

    For the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005  

  (In thousands) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited  condensed consolidated financial statements.  

4 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES     Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity  (Unaudited)    For the year ended October 31, 2005 and the three months  ended January 31, 2006   (In thousands) 

The accompanying notes are an  integral part of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.  

5 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 
      Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial  Statements 
 (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

1.     ORGANIZATION  AND DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. (the  Company ) was incorporated in  the State of Delaware in September 1993. The Company develops, publishes and  distributes interactive software games designed for personal computers, video  game consoles and handheld platforms.  

2.     SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION  

Basis of Presentation  

The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the  Company have been prepared in accordance with the instructions to Form 10-Q and  Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, the financial statements do not  include all information and disclosures necessary for a presentation of the  Company s financial position, results of operations and cash flows in  conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States  of America. In the opinion of management, the financial statements reflect all  adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring accruals) necessary for a fair  statement of the Company s financial position, results of operations and cash  flows. The results of operations for an interim period are not necessarily  indicative of the results for the full year. The financial statements should be  read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and notes thereto  contained in the Company s Annual Report

on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  October 31, 2005.  

Estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally  accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and  assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and  disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial  statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the  reported periods. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to the  adequacy of allowances for returns, price concessions and doubtful accounts;  the amortization and recoverability of software development costs, licenses and  other intangibles; valuation of inventories, fair value of stock compensation  and realization of deferred income taxes. Actual amounts could differ  significantly from these estimates.  

At January 31, 2006, the Company s accounts receivable  balance is net of reserves of approximately $1,185 for remaining product  returns primarily related to the Company s North American retail inventory of  Grand Theft  Auto: San Andreas  as a result of the re-rating of the title by the  Entertainment Software Rating Board ( ESRB ) in July 2005.   

Stock Split  

In April 2005, the Company effected a three-for-two stock split in the  form of a stock dividend. Accordingly, all share and per share data in the  accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes  thereto give retroactive effect to the stock split. 

Financial Instruments  

The carrying amounts of the Company s financial instruments, including  cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, income tax receivable and  payable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, approximate fair value  because of their short maturities. The Company considers all highly liquid  instruments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be  cash equivalents. 

The Company transacts business in various foreign currencies and has  significant sales and purchase transactions denominated in foreign currencies.  The Company uses forward exchange contracts to seek to mitigate foreign  currency risk associated with foreign currency assets and liabilities,  primarily certain intercompany receivables and payables. The Company does not  designate foreign currency forward contracts as hedging instruments under SFAS  No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.  As a  result, the Company marks to market its foreign currency forward contracts each  period and any gains and losses are recognized in net income. At January 31,  2006, the Company had no outstanding foreign currency forward contracts. 

6 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Reclassifications  

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current  year presentation. 

Recently Issued Accounting  Pronouncements  

Effective November 1, 2005, the Company adopted Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) ( SFAS 123(R) ),  Share-Based  Payment,  which revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123 ( SFAS  123 ),  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.  Refer to Note 3 to the  unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further information.  There were no other accounting policies adopted during the first quarter of  fiscal 2006 that had a material effect on the Company s financial condition and  results of operations. 

In May 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued  SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  ( SFAS 154 ), which  replaces APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes  and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting  Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements   An Amendment of APB  Opinion No. 28.  SFAS 154 provides guidance on the accounting for and reporting  of accounting changes and error corrections. It establishes retrospective  application, or the latest practicable date, as the required method for  reporting a change in accounting principle and the reporting of a correction of  an error. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of  errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. Management does  not believe the adoption of SFAS 154 will have a material impact on the  Company s condensed consolidated financial statements.  

3.     STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION  

Effective November 1, 2005, the Company
    adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004)
    ( SFAS 123(R) ),  Share-Based  Payment,  which revised
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123 ( SFAS  123 ),  Accounting
    for Stock-Based Compensation.  SFAS 123(R) requires all  share-based
    payment transactions with employees, including grants of employee stock options,
    to be recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service period
    based on their relative fair values. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R),
    stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options was not
    recognized in the statement of operations if the exercise price was at least
    equal to the market value of the common stock on the grant date, in accordance
    with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for  Stock
    Issued to Employees.  Prior to November 1, 2005, the Company had adopted
    the disclosure-only provisions under SFAS 123. 

The Company elected to use the Modified Prospective Application ( MPA )  method for implementing SFAS 123(R). Under the MPA method, prior periods are  not restated and new awards are valued and accounted for prospectively upon  adoption. Outstanding prior stock option awards that are non-vested as of  October 31, 2005 are recognized as compensation expense in the statement of  operations over the remaining requisite service period.  

The Company has stock-based compensation
    plans under which directors, officers and other employees receive stock options
    and restricted stock awards. Generally, stock options are granted with an
    exercise price equal to the market value of a share of common stock on the
    date of grant, expire within five years and vest over three years. As of
    January 31, 2006, the Company s 2002 stock  option plan provides for
    a total of 11.0 million shares to be issued of which approximately 1.0 million
    shares are available for grant. As of January 31, 2006, the Company s
    Incentive Stock Plan (restricted stock awards) provides for a total of 2.5
    million shares to be issued of which approximately 1.2 million shares are
    available for grant. 

7 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

The following table summarizes the activity in options under the  Company s stock based compensation plans: 

As of January 31, 2006, the weighted average remaining contractual term  of the Company s options outstanding and exercisable is 3.3 years and 2.7  years, respectively. As of January 31, 2006, due to the Company s stock price,  there is no aggregate intrinsic value related to options outstanding or  exercisable. As of January 31, 2006, the total unrecognized compensation cost  related to outstanding non-vested stock options is $35.9 million. 

The weighted average per share fair values of options granted were  $8.62 and $12.68 for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005. The fair  value of the Company s options was estimated using the Black-Scholes  option-pricing model. This model requires the input of assumptions regarding a  number of complex and subjective variables that will usually have a significant  impact on the fair value estimate. These variables include, but are not limited  to, the volatility of the Company s stock price and employee stock option  exercise behaviors. The assumptions and variables used for the current period  grants were developed based on SFAS 123(R) and SEC guidance contained in Staff  Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 107,  Share-Based Payment.  The following table  summarizes the assumptions and variables used by the Company to compute the  weighted average fair value of stock option grants: 

For the three months ended January 31, 2006, the Company used a  combination of historical volatility and the implied volatility for publicly  traded options on the Company s stock as the expected volatility assumption  required in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model consistent with SFAS 123(R)  and SAB 107. Prior to fiscal 2006, the Company had used its historical stock  price volatility in accordance with SFAS 123 for purposes of its pro forma  information. The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon  the availability of actively traded options on the Company s stock and the  Company s assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future  stock price trends than historical volatility. 

SFAS 123(R) requires the recognition of stock-based compensation for  the number of awards that are ultimately expected to vest. As a result, for  most awards, recognized stock compensation was reduced for estimated  forfeitures prior to vesting primarily based on a historical annual forfeiture  rate of approximately 7%. Estimated forfeitures will be reassessed at each  balance sheet date and may change based on new facts and circumstances. Prior  to October 31, 2005, actual forfeitures were accounted for as they occurred for  purposes of required pro forma stock compensation disclosures. 

8 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Restricted stock awards are expensed on a straight-line basis over the  vesting period, which typically range from one to four years. The following  table summarizes the activity in non-vested restricted stock under the  Company s stock based compensation plans: 

The following table summarizes the
    components and classification of stock-based compensation expense in the
Company s  condensed consolidated statements of operations: 

Effective November 1, 2005, in connection
    with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company capitalizes stock-based compensation
    costs as software development costs. Stock-based compensation expense for
    the three months ended January 31, 2006 excludes approximately $1.3 million
    in stock option costs which were capitalized as software development costs
    in
    connection
with the development of software titles. In prior periods, the Company s
disclosures regarding the pro forma impact on net income of stock-based compensation
do not reflect the capitalization of these costs. For the three months ended
January 31, 2005, stock-based compensation expense of approximately $0.9 million
would have been capitalized. 

Amortization of such capitalized costs as a component of costs of goods  sold is recorded on a title-by-title basis based on the greater of the  proportion of current year sales to the total of current and estimated future  sales for the title or the straight-line method over the remaining estimated  useful life of the title. At each balance sheet date, the Company will evaluate  the recoverability of capitalized software costs based on undiscounted future  cash flows and charge to cost of goods sold any amounts that are deemed  unrecoverable.  

9 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

For the three months ended January 31, 2005, had the compensation cost  for the Company s stock option plans been determined based on the fair value at  the grant date for awards consistent with the provisions of SFAS 123, the  Company s net income and net income per share would have been adjusted to the  pro forma amounts indicated below:  

Three months ended     January 31, 2005  

Net income, as reported 

$ 

55,249 

Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense    included in reported net income, net of related tax effects 

2,934 

Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation    expense determined under the fair value based method for all awards, net of    related tax effects 

(6,841 

) 

Pro forma net income 

$ 

51,342 

Earnings per share: 

Basic   as reported 

$ 

0.81 

Basic   pro forma 

$ 

0.75 

Diluted   as reported 

$ 

0.79 

Diluted   pro forma 

$ 

0.73 

4.     BUSINESS  ACQUISITIONS  

The acquisitions described below have been accounted for as purchase  transactions. Accordingly, the results of operations and financial position of  the acquired businesses are included in the Company s condensed consolidated  financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition. To the extent  that the purchase price allocation for these acquisitions is preliminary, the  Company does not expect that the final purchase price allocation will be  materially different. Pro forma information has not been provided as the impact  of these acquisitions was not material.  

In November 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital  stock of Firaxis Games, Inc. ( Firaxis ), a developer of PC and strategy  titles, including the  Civilization   franchise. The purchase price of approximately $15,442 consisted of $12,500 of  unregistered common stock and $4,085 of development advances previously paid to  Firaxis reduced by net cash acquired of $1,143. In connection with the  acquisition, the Company recorded $5,284 of identifiable intangible assets,  comprised of $1,130 of non-competition agreements and $4,154 of intellectual  property, $11,445 of goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes, $333  of net assets and $1,620 of deferred tax liabilities, on a preliminary basis.  The Company also agreed to make additional payments of $11,250 based on future  product sales, of which approximately $10,000 will be recorded as additional  purchase price when the conditions requiring their payment are met and $1,250

will be recorded as employee compensation expense. 

In August 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding membership  interests in Irrational Studios ( Irrational ), the developer of certain of the  Company s titles. The purchase price consisted of $4,212 in cash and $2,000 of  unregistered common stock, which was payable at closing, $1,550 of development  advances previously paid to Irrational and $2,000 of deferred consideration  which is payable in equal amounts on the first and second anniversary of the  acquisition. In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded $2,250 of  identifiable intangible assets, $7,665 of goodwill, which is deductible for tax  purposes, $187 of non-current assets and $340 of net current liabilities, on a  preliminary basis. The Company also agreed to make additional payments of  $2,000 based on the delivery of products which will be recorded as additional  purchase price when the conditions requiring their payment are met. 

In June 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock  of Gaia Capital Group and its wholly-owned subsidiaries ( Gaia ), the  developers of certain of the Company s titles for console and handheld  platforms. The purchase price consisted of $5,748 in cash, $4,055 of  development advances previously paid to Gaia and deferred consideration of  $1,597. In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded $3,940 of  identifiable intangible assets, $7,918 of goodwill, which is deductible for tax  purposes, $528 of non-current assets, and $986 of net current liabilities, on a  preliminary basis. 

10 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

In January 2005, the Company acquired from SEGA all of the outstanding  capital stock of Visual Concepts Entertainment and its wholly-owned subsidiary,  Kush Games, the developers of certain of the Company s sports titles, and  certain intellectual property rights associated with these products. The  purchase price consisted of $27,794 in cash, $1,866 of prepaid royalties  previously advanced to SEGA and contingent consideration of $2,593 based on the  release of certain titles. In connection with the acquisition, the Company  recorded $7,980 of identifiable intangible assets, $29,433 of goodwill, which  is not deductible for tax purposes, $1,196 of non-current assets, $3,164 of net  current liabilities and $3,192 of deferred tax liabilities related to  identifiable intangible assets. 

5.     INCOME  TAXES  

The provision (benefit) for income taxes for the three months ended  January 31, 2006 and 2005 is based on the Company s estimated annualized  effective tax rates for the respective years. The estimated annualized  effective tax rate for the three months ended January 31, 2006 is a benefit of  40.0% compared to an estimated annualized effective tax rate for the comparable  period in fiscal 2005, which was an expense of 24.6%. The higher estimated  annual effective tax rate in fiscal 2006 is primarily attributable to  forecasted losses in higher tax rate jurisdictions and the U.S. tax benefit of  the extraterritorial income exclusion. The lower effective tax rate for the  comparable period in fiscal 2005 was primarily attributable to a higher  proportion of forecasted earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions. 

At each balance sheet date, the Company evaluates its estimated annual  effective tax rate based on updated information on forecasted income generated  in each of its jurisdictions. Any revisions to the rates are recorded in the  current period to reflect management s current best estimate of the annual  effective tax rate. 

Recent tax legislation replaced the extraterritorial income ( ETI )  exclusion, subject to a phase-out of the exclusion. The Company currently  derives benefits from the ETI exclusion, which is limited to 80% and 60% of the  otherwise allowable exclusion in calendar years 2005 and 2006, respectively.  There will be no ETI deduction available after calendar year 2006. This recent  legislation replaces the ETI with a deduction from taxable income based on  certain qualified income from domestic production activities. The Company does  not expect to benefit from this deduction in fiscal 2006.  

This legislation also provides for a one-time 85% dividends received  deduction on repatriation of foreign earnings, which was applicable to the  Company if utilized by December 31, 2005. Historically, the Company has  considered undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries to be  indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no incremental taxes have been  provided thereon. The Company did not repatriate any foreign earnings under  this provision. The total amount of undistributed earnings of foreign  subsidiaries was approximately $173,000 as of January 31, 2006. 

The Company adopted FAS 123(R) on
    November 1, 2005, which requires, among other items, the recognition of stock
    option expense in the results of operations. As a result of the adoption
    of SFAS 123(R), the income tax effects of compensatory stock options are
    included in the computation of the income tax expense (benefit), and deferred
    tax assets and liabilities, subject to certain prospective adjustments to
    stockholders  equity for the differences between the income tax effects of
    expenses recognized in the results of operations and the related amounts
    deducted for income tax purposes. Prior to the Company s adoption  of
    SFAS 123(R), the tax benefits relating to the income tax deductions for compensatory
    stock options were recorded directly to stockholders  equity.   

6.     NET  INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE  

The following table provides a reconciliation of basic net income  (loss) per share to diluted net income (loss) per share for the three months  ended January 31, 2006 and 2005: 

11 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

The computation of diluted number of shares excludes unexercised stock  options, warrants and non-vested restricted shares which are antidilutive. A  net loss was reported for the three months ended January 31, 2006, therefore,  the diluted number of shares excludes 8,296 of unexercised stock options,  warrants and non-vested restricted shares, respectively, which are antidilutive  due to the net loss. The computation of diluted number of shares excludes 518  of unexercised stock options and warrants for the three months ended January  31, 2005, which are antidilutive.  

7.     INVENTORIES  

As of January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, inventories consist of:  

Estimated product returns included in the inventory balance were $9,965  and $8,857 at January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, respectively.  

8.     SOFTWARE  DEVELOPMENT COSTS  

The Company utilizes both internal development teams and third-party  software developers to develop the Company s products and the titles it  publishes.  

The Company capitalizes internal software
    development costs (including share-based compensation, specific employee
    payroll and incentive compensation costs related to the completion and release
    of titles), as well as film production and other content costs, subsequent
    to establishing technological feasibility of a title. Amortization of such
    costs as a component of cost of goods sold (software development costs) is
    recorded on a title-by-title basis based on the greater of the proportion
    of current
    year
    net revenues
    to the total of current and estimated future net revenues for the title or
    the straight-line method over the remaining estimated useful life of the
    title. At each balance sheet date, the Company evaluates the recoverability
    of capitalized software costs based on undiscounted future cash flows and
    charges to cost of goods sold any amounts that are deemed unrecoverable.
    The amount of internally developed software included in software development
    costs was $66,107 and $60,324 at January 31,  2006 and October 31, 2005,
    respectively. Royalties earned under the Company s  internal royalty
    program continue to be expensed as incurred as a component of cost of goods
    sold (royalties). 

Agreements with third-party developers generally provide the Company  with exclusive publishing and distribution rights and require the Company to  make advance payments that are recouped against royalties due to the developer  based on the contractual amounts of product sales, adjusted for certain costs.  Advance payments are capitalized subsequent to establishing technological  feasibility and amortized as royalties in cost of goods sold on a  title-by-title basis based on the greater of the proportion of current year net  revenues to the total of current and estimated future net revenues for that  title or the contractual royalty rate based on actual product net revenues as  defined in the respective agreements. At each balance sheet date, the Company  evaluates the recoverability of advanced development payments and unrecognized  minimum commitments not yet paid to determine the amounts unlikely to be  realized through product sales. Advance payments are charged

to cost of goods  sold in the amount that management determines is unrecoverable in the period in  which such determination is made or if management determines that it will  cancel a development project. Criteria used to evaluate expected product  performance and to estimate future net revenues for a title include historical  performance of comparable titles, orders for titles prior to release and the  estimated performance of a sequel title based on the performance of the title  on which the sequel is based. 

The amount of software development costs resulting from advance  payments and guarantees to third-party developers was $51,823 and $48,104 at  January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, respectively.  

12 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

The following table provides the details of software development costs: 

Software development costs at January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005  included amounts of $84,447 and $77,544, respectively, related to titles that  have not yet been released. 

Prior to fiscal 2005, all internal software development costs were  classified as long-term which was not consistent with the accounting for  external software development costs which are classified as either current or  non-current based on the expected current year net revenues to the total of  current and estimated future net revenues related to the release of a title.  

9.     LICENSES  

Licenses consist of payments and guarantees made to licensors of  intellectual property rights. The Company s agreements with certain licensors  provide for minimum guaranteed payments for intellectual property and other  licensing rights which may be recouped against amounts due to the licensor  based on product net revenues. Minimum guaranteed payments are initially  recorded as an asset (licenses) and as a liability (accrued licenses) at the  contractual amount upon execution of the contract when no significant  performance remains with the licensor. When significant performance remains  with the licensor, the Company records payments when actually due. 

Licenses are amortized as royalties
    in cost of goods sold on a title-by-title basis based on the greater of the
    proportion of current year net revenues to the total of current and estimated
    future net revenues for that title or the contractual royalty rate based
    on actual net product sales as defined in the respective agreements. At each
    balance sheet date, the Company evaluates licenses as well as any unrecognized
    minimum commitments not yet paid to determine the amounts unlikely to be
    realized through product sales. License-based assets are charged to cost
    of goods sold in the amount that management determines is not probable of
    being recouped at the contractual royalty rate based on current and future
    net revenues in the period in which such determination is made. Criteria
    used to evaluate expected product performance and to estimate future sales
    for a title include historical performance of comparable titles, orders for
    titles prior to release and the estimated performance of a sequel title based
    on the performance of the title on which the sequel is based.  

The following table provides the details of licenses: 

13 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Included in licenses at January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005 are  $8,575 and $5,466 related to titles that have not yet been released. 

10.     FIXED  ASSETS, NET  

As of January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, fixed assets consist of: 

Depreciation expense for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and  2005 is $5,177 and $3,449, respectively.  

11.     INTANGIBLES,  NET  

Intangible assets consist of trademarks,  customer lists and relationships, intellectual property, non-competition  agreements and acquired technology in connection with acquisitions. Intangible  assets are amortized under the straight-line method over the period of expected  benefit ranging from three to ten years, except for intellectual property,  which is amortized based on the shorter of the useful life or expected revenue  stream.  

Amortization expense for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and  2005 is as follows:  

14 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Estimated amortization expense for the fiscal years ending October 31,  is as follows: 

For the three months ended January 31, 2006, the increase in  intellectual property, non-competition agreements, technology and trademarks  resulted primarily from the acquisition of Firaxis (See Note 4). 

12.     LINES  OF CREDIT  

On August 24, 2005, the Company entered into a new credit agreement  with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ( JPMorgan ), and terminated its credit  agreement with Bank of America, N.A. The JPMorgan credit agreement provides for  borrowings of up to $50,000 through the expiration of the agreement on August  23, 2006. Advances under the credit agreement bear interest at a rate of 0.25%  to 0.75% over the bank s prime rate, or at the Eurodollar rate plus 1.25% to  1.75% depending on the Company s consolidated leverage ratio. The Company is  required to pay a commitment fee to the bank equal to 0.25% of the unused loan  balance and borrowings under the agreement are collateralized by certain of the  Company s assets. The credit agreement also contains financial and other  covenants (including a consolidated asset coverage ratio) and limits or  prohibits the Company from paying cash dividends, merging or consolidating with  another corporation, selling

or acquiring assets (other than in the ordinary  course of business), creating liens and incurring additional indebtedness.  Available borrowings under the agreement are reduced by the amount of any  outstanding stand-by letters of credit, which is $1,560 at January 31, 2006.  The Company had no borrowings under the credit agreement and was in compliance  with all financial and other covenants at January 31, 2006. 

In May 2005, the Company s United Kingdom subsidiary renewed its credit  facility agreement with Lloyds TSB Bank plc ( Lloyds ) under which Lloyds  agreed to make available borrowings of up to approximately $23,000. Advances  under the credit facility bear interest at the rate of 1.25% per annum over the  bank s base rate, and are guaranteed by the Company. Available borrowings under  the agreement are reduced by the amount of outstanding guarantees. The facility  expires on March 31, 2006. The Company had no outstanding guarantees and no  borrowings under this facility as of January 31, 2006.  

13.     ACCRUED  EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES   

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities as of January 31, 2006  and October 31, 2005 consist of:  

15 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

14.     LEGAL  AND OTHER PROCEEDINGS   

Following the re-rating of  Grand  Theft Auto: San Andreas  by the Entertainment Software Rating Board  ( ESRB ) from an  M  (age 17 and over) rating to an  AO  (age 18 and over)  rating in July 2005, the Company was notified by the staff of the Federal Trade  Commission s ( FTC ) Division of Advertising Practices that it is conducting an  inquiry into advertising claims made for the title and whether the Company  engaged in unfair or deceptive acts or practices in violation of section 5 of  the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C., Section 45. The Company is  cooperating with the FTC inquiry and believes that it acted in accordance with  all applicable laws and regulations.   

In July 2005, the Company received
    three purported class action complaints against the Company and its subsidiary,
    Rockstar Games, two of which were filed in the United States District Court
    for the Southern District of New York and one such complaint which was filed
    in the United States District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania. On
    September 8, 2005, another similar complaint was filed in the Circuit Court
    for the Twentieth Judicial District, St. Clair County, Illinois. The plaintiffs,
    alleged purchasers of the Company s   Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas   game,
    allege that the Company and Rockstar Games engaged in consumer deception,
    false advertising and common law fraud and were unjustly enriched as a result
    of the alleged failure of the Company and Rockstar Games to disclose that  Grand
    Theft Auto: San Andreas  contained   hidden  content, which
    resulted in the game receiving an  M  rating from the  ESRB rather
    than an  AO  rating. The complaints seek unspecified damages,
    declarations of various violations of law and litigation costs. The New York
    actions and the Pennsylvania action have been consolidated in the Southern
    District of New York under the caption  In re Grand Theft Auto Video Game
    Consumer Litigation , (05-CV-6734 (BSJ)). The Illinois action has been
    removed to the United States District Court for the Southern District of
    Illinois, and the Company has moved the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
    for an order transferring the Illinois action to the Southern District of
    New York for coordinated or consolidated proceedings with the actions pending
    in New York.   

In January 2006, the City Attorney for the City of Los Angeles filed a  complaint against the Company and Rockstar Games in the Superior Court of the  State of California. The complaint alleges that the Company and Rockstar Games  violated sections of the California Business and Professions Code prohibiting  untrue and misleading statements and unfair competition and that the Company  and Rockstar Games were unjustly enriched as a result of the alleged failure to  disclose that  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas   contained  hidden  content which should have resulted in the game receiving an  Adults Only ( AO ) rating from the ESRB rather than a Mature ( M ) rating. The  complaint also alleges that the Company made misleading statements as to the  origin of the  hidden  content. The complaint seeks injunctive relief,  restitution for purchasers of the game and civil fines. The Company has also  received requests for documents

and information from the Attorneys General of  the States of North Carolina and Connecticut relating to  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . 

In February and March 2006, an aggregate
    of four purported class action complaints were filed against the Company,
    its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and former Chief Global
    Operating Officer in the United States District Court for the Southern District
    of New York (the  New York  Actions ). Plaintiffs for the complaints
    are Max Kaplan, John Fenninger, David Andrews and David Toth. The complaints
    allege that the defendants violated Sections 10(b), 20(a) and Rule 10b-5
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ) by making
    or causing the Company to make untrue statements or failing to disclose in
    certain press releases and SEC periodic reports that, among other things:  Grand
    Theft Auto: San Andreas   contained   hidden  content which
     should have resulted in the game receiving an Adults Only ( AO )
     rating from the ESRB rather than a Mature ( M ) rating; the  defendants
    attempted to bolster

sales of  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas  by  concealing the  adult
content  from
retailers who refused to carry AO material; the Company s management failed
to keep the Board of Directors informed of important issues or failed to do so
in a timely fashion; and the Company was misstating capitalized
software development costs and amortization expense and had inadequate internal
controls and procedures
to ensure accuracy in its reported financial results. The plaintiffs seek to
recover unspecified damages and their costs in
these actions. 

In January 2006, the St. Clair Shores General Employees Retirement  System filed a purported class and derivative action complaint in the Southern  District of New York against the Company, as nominal defendant, and certain of  the Company s officers and directors and certain former officers and directors.  The factual allegations in this action are similar to the allegations contained  in the New York Actions. Plaintiff asserts that certain defendants breached  their fiduciary duty by selling Company stock while in possession of certain  material non-public information and breached their fiduciary duty and violated  Section 14(a) and Rule 14a-9 of the Exchange Act by failing to disclose  material facts in the Company s 2003, 2004 and 2005 proxy statements in which  the Company solicited approval to increase share availability under its 2002  Stock Option Plan. Plaintiff seeks the return of all profits from the alleged 

16 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

insider trading conducted by the individual defendants who sold Company  stock, unspecified compensatory damages with interest and their costs in the  action.  

In February 2006, Bamboo Partners,
    LLC, filed a purported class action and derivative complaint in the Court
    of Chancery of the State of Delaware against the Company as nominal defendant
    and certain officers and directors and former officers and directors. The
    factual allegations in this action are similar to the allegations contained
    in the New York Actions. The plaintiff alleges that certain defendants breached
    their fiduciary obligations as a result of the Company s misrepresentations
    regarding its business and prospects and that they disseminated materially
    false information to the Company s  stockholders. Plaintiff also alleges
    that individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties through mismanagement
    and a failure of oversight and by diluting the Company s stock as a
    result of omissions in the Company s 2003,  2004 and 2005 proxy statements
    relating to increases in share availability under its 2002 Stock Option Plan.
    Plaintiff also claims that the Company is entitled to contribution and indemnification
    from the individual defendants and to a return of certain bonuses and incentive
    payments made to certain officers.  In addition to the return of  these
    payments, plaintiff seeks recovery of profits from alleged insider trading
    under theories of alleged unjust enrichment and abuse of control, and unspecified
    damages against the individual defendants, attorney s fees and  costs. 

In January 2006, Todd Veeck filed
    a complaint in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware against the
    Company pursuant to the 8  Del. C.     220 to compel inspection
    of the Company s books and records in order to   investigate  possible
    breaches of fiduciary duties with regard to the creation, development, marketing
    and sale of the Company s  Grand
Theft Auto  line of  products.  

In February 2005, the personal representatives
    of the Estates of Arnold Strickland and Ace Mealer brought an action in the
    Circuit Court of Fayette County, Alabama against the Company, Sony Computer
    of America, Wal-Mart, GameStop and Devin Moore alleging under Alabama s
    manufacturers  liability and  wrongful death statutes that the Company s
    video games designed, manufactured, marketed and/or supplied to Mr. Moore
    resulted in  copycat violence  that  caused the death of Messrs.
    Strickland and Mealer. The suit seeks damages (including punitive damages)
    against all of the defendants in excess of $600 million. Wal-Mart and Sony
    Computer of America have tendered their defense and requested indemnification
    from the Company, and the Company has accepted such tender. The Company s
    motion to dismiss the action was denied and the Company moved to have certain
    issues certified for an immediate interlocutory appeal before the Alabama
    Supreme Court.  

The Company intends to vigorously
    defend and seek dismissal of these matters and, with respect to the derivative
    actions, the Company has been advised that the individual defendants will
    vigorously defend such actions. However, the Company cannot predict the outcome
    of these matters and, if determined
    adversely
    to the
    Company,
    such matters, either singly or in the aggregate, could result in the imposition
    of significant judgments, fines and/or penalties which could have a material
adverse effect on the Company s financial  condition, cash flows or results
of operations. 

The Company is also involved in routine litigation in the ordinary  course of its business, which in management s opinion will not have a material  adverse effect on the Company s financial condition, cash flows or results of  operations.  

15.     COMMITMENTS  AND CONTINGENCIES   

A summary of annual minimum contractual obligations and commitments as  of January 31, 2006 is as follows: 

17 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Licensing and Marketing Agreements:   The Company s license expense consists primarily of payments made to licensors  for intellectual property rights under agreements which expire at various times  through December 2012. As of January 31, 2006, the Company has minimum  guaranteed licensing and marketing commitments of $342,757 outstanding, of  which $4,062 is recorded in the Company s condensed consolidated balance sheet  as the licensor does not have any significant performance obligation to the  Company. Minimum guaranteed licensing and marketing commitments primarily  reflect the Company s agreements with major sports leagues and players   associations.  

Software Development Agreements:  The  Company s payments made to third-party software developers include contractual  advances and royalties under agreements which expire at various times through  November 2008. Assuming performance by third-party developers, the Company has  aggregate outstanding commitments of $66,209 under various software development  agreements at January 31, 2006. The Company has also established an internal  royalty program pursuant to which it pays royalties to its development  personnel based on product sales. Royalties earned under the Company s internal  royalty program continue to be expensed as incurred.  

Lease Commitments:  The  Company s offices and warehouse facilities are occupied under non-cancelable  operating leases expiring at various times from August 2006 to October 2014.  The Company also leases certain furniture, equipment and automobiles under  non-cancelable leases expiring through November 2009. Future minimum rental  payments for fiscal 2006 are $13,015 and aggregate minimum rental payments  through applicable lease expirations are $94,845.  

Distribution Agreements:  The  Company periodically enters into distribution agreements to purchase various  software games. These agreements, which expire at various dates through January  2007, require remaining aggregate minimum guaranteed payments of $4,235 at  January 31, 2006.  

Contingent Consideration:   In November 2005, in connection with the acquisition of Firaxis, the Company  agreed to make additional payments of $11,250 based on future product sales, of  which approximately $10,000 will be recorded as additional purchase price and  $1,250 will be recorded as employee compensation expense. 

In fiscal 2005, in connection with the acquisition of Irrational, the  Company agreed to make additional payments of $2,000 to the former owners of  Irrational based on the delivery of products. The Company does not anticipate  making these contingent payments within the next twelve months. Additionally,  in fiscal 2005, in connection with the acquisition of Visual Concepts and Kush  Games, the Company agreed to make additional payments of approximately $2,600  to SEGA based on the commercial release of products. The additional payments to  SEGA are expected to be made in fiscal 2006.  

In March 2005, the Company renegotiated a $6,000 contingent obligation  due upon delivery of the final PC version of  Duke  Nukem Forever  through the payment of $4,250 and issuance of a  promissory note in the principal amount of $500. The payment of the promissory  note is contingent upon the commercial release of such product prior to  December 31, 2006.  

In connection with the acquisition of Mobius in March 2004, the Company  agreed to make additional contingent payments of approximately $1,950 based on  the delivery of products. In fiscal 2003, the Company agreed to make additional  payments of up to $2,500 to the former owners of Cat Daddy based on a  percentage of Cat Daddy s future profits for the first three years after  acquisition. The Company does not anticipate making these contingent payments  within the next twelve months.  

16.     SEGMENT  REPORTING  

The Company is a publisher and distributor of interactive software  games. The Company s operations involve similar products and customers  worldwide. The products are developed and sold domestically and  internationally. The Company is centrally managed and the chief operating  decision makers, including the chief executive officer, use consolidated  financial information supplemented by sales information by product category,  major product title and platform for making operational decisions and assessing  financial performance. Accordingly, the Company operates in a single segment.  

18 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Information about the Company s total non-current assets in the United  States, Canada and international areas as of January 31, 2006 and October 31,  2005 is presented below:  

Information about the Company s net revenues in the United States,  Canada and international areas for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and  2005 is presented below (net revenues are attributed to geographic areas based  on product destination): 

Information about the Company s net revenues by product category for  the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 is presented below:  

Publishing revenue is derived from the sale of internally developed  interactive software titles and from the sale of titles developed by and/or  licensed from third parties. Distribution revenue is derived from the sale of  third-party interactive software titles, hardware and accessories. 

19 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES   Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Information about the Company s net revenues by product platforms for  the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 is presented below:  

17. Subsequent Event   

  In February 2006, in connection with the Company s
    Rockstar compensation plan, the Board of Directors approved the issuance
    of shares of restricted common stock
  under the Company s Incentive Stock Plan having an aggregate value of
  $25.0 million. Shares of restricted stock having a value of approximately $14.8
  million (950,000 shares) were immediately
	 granted principally to certain Rockstar employees responsible for product
  development, and the balance of the shares with a value of $10.2 million will
  be issued
  to
	  certain Rockstar employees when the stockholders of the Company approve
	   an amendment to the Company s Incentive Stock Plan to increase the number
	   of shares available for grant thereunder. Such shares will vest
	    as to one-third of such shares in each of February 2007, February 2008
	   and February 2009.  

20 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Item  2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of  Operation  

Overview  

We are a leading global publisher of interactive software games  designed for personal computers, and video game consoles and handheld platforms  manufactured by Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo. We also distribute our products  as well as third-party software, hardware and accessories to retail outlets in  North America through our Jack of All Games subsidiary, and we have sales,  marketing and publishing operations in Australia, Austria, Canada, China,  France, Germany, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, Switzerland  and the United Kingdom.  

Our principal sources of revenue are derived from publishing and  distribution operations. Publishing revenues are derived from the sale of  internally developed software titles and software titles developed by third  parties. Operating margins in our publishing business are dependent in part  upon our ability to continually release new, commercially successful products  and to manage costs associated with business acquisitions and software product  development. We develop most of our frontline products internally, and we own  major intellectual properties, which we believe permits us to maximize  profitability. Operating margins for titles developed by third parties, or for  which we do not own the intellectual property, are affected by costs to acquire  licenses and amounts due to developers.  

Our distribution revenues are derived from the sale of third-party  software titles, accessories and hardware. Operating margins in our  distribution business are dependent in part on the mix of software and hardware  sales, with software generating higher margins than hardware. Publishing  activities generate significantly higher margins than distribution activities,  with sales of PC software titles resulting in higher margins than sales of  products designed for video game consoles and handheld platforms.  

We have pursued a growth strategy by capitalizing on the widespread  market acceptance of video game consoles, as well as the growing popularity of  innovative action games that appeal to mature audiences. We have established a  portfolio of successful proprietary software content for the major hardware  platforms. We expect to continue to be a leader in the mature, action product  category by leveraging our existing franchises and developing new brands.  

We have diversified our product offerings by capitalizing on  significant growth opportunities in the market for sports and other licensed  action and strategy titles. During fiscal 2005 and our fiscal quarter ended  January 31, 2006, we made several strategic acquisitions of leading sports and  strategy game development studios and entered into license agreements with  major sports leagues to develop sports titles. We also entered into license  agreements for several popular entertainment properties, acquired well-known  intellectual property rights, and entered into distribution and publishing  arrangements for major action and strategy PC titles. 

The video game industry is currently
    undergoing a transition due to the introduction of next generation hardware
    platforms and new software for these platforms. In 2005, Sony introduced
    the PlayStation Portable (PSP), a new handheld gaming system, followed by
    Microsoft s release of the Xbox 360, a  next generation console platform.
    Sony is expected to introduce the PlayStation 3 and Nintendo is planning
    the launch of the Revolution console system during calendar year 2006. During
    the transition to next generation hardware platforms, our operating results
    may become more volatile and more difficult to predict. Additionally, our
    publishing and distribution net revenues may slow or decline during the transition
    period, due to downward pressure on software pricing on current generation
    platforms, limited initial availability of new hardware platforms and a decline
    in consumer purchases in anticipation of next generation platforms becoming
    available. See

Cautionary Statements and Risk  Factors.   

Estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally  accepted accounting principles in the United States of America requires  management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts  of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and  liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts  of net revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. The most significant  estimates and assumptions relate to the adequacy of allowances for returns,  price concessions and doubtful accounts; the amortization and recoverability of  capitalized software development costs, licenses and other intangibles;  valuation of inventories, fair value of stock compensation and realization of  deferred income taxes. Actual amounts could differ significantly from these  estimates.  

21 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Stock  Split  

In April 2005, we effected a three-for-two stock split in the form of a  stock dividend. Accordingly, all share and per-share data in the accompanying  unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto give  retroactive effect to the stock split.  

Critical  Accounting Policies  

Revenue  Recognition  

We recognize revenue upon the transfer of title and risk of loss to our  customers. We apply the provisions of Statement of Position 97-2,  Software Revenue  Recognition  in conjunction with the applicable provisions of Staff Accounting  Bulletin No. 104,  Revenue Recognition.  Accordingly, we recognize revenue for  software when there is (1) persuasive evidence that an arrangement with our  customer exists, which is generally a customer purchase order, (2) the software  is delivered, (3) the selling price is fixed or determinable and (4) collection  of the customer receivable is deemed probable. Our payment arrangements with  customers typically provide net 30 and 60-day terms. 

Revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns  and price concessions. In specific circumstances when we do not have a reliable  basis to estimate returns and price concessions or are unable to determine that  collection of receivables is probable, we defer the revenue until such time as  we can reliably estimate any related returns and allowances and determine that  collection of the receivables is probable.  

Allowances  for Returns and Price Concessions  

We accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our  publishing arrangements. Following reductions in the price of our products, we  grant price concessions to permit customers to take credits against amounts  they owe us with respect to merchandise unsold by them. Our customers must  satisfy certain conditions to entitle them to return products or receive price  concessions, including compliance with applicable payment terms and  confirmation of field inventory levels.  

Our distribution arrangements with customers do not give them the right  to return titles or to cancel firm orders. However, we sometimes accept returns  from our distribution customers for stock balancing and make accommodations to  customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific titles  falls below expectations.  

We make estimates of future product returns and price concessions  related to current period product revenue. We estimate the amount of future  returns and price concessions for published titles based upon, among other  factors, historical experience and performance of the titles in similar genres,  historical performance of the hardware platform, customer inventory levels,  analysis of sell-through rates, sales force and retail customer feedback,  industry pricing, market conditions and changes in demand and acceptance of our  products by consumers. 

Significant management judgments and estimates must be made and used in  connection with establishing the allowance for returns and price concessions in  any accounting period. We believe we can make reliable estimates of returns and  price concessions. However, actual results may differ from initial estimates as  a result of changes in circumstances, market conditions and assumptions.  Adjustments to estimates are recorded in the period in which they become known.  At January 31, 2006, our accounts receivable balance is net  of reserves of approximately $1,185 for remaining product returns primarily  related to our North American retail inventory of  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas   as a result of the re-rating of the title by the Entertainment Software Rating  Board ( ESRB ) in July 2005. 

Software  Development Costs  

We utilize both internal development
    teams and third-party software developers to develop our products. We capitalize
    internal software development costs (including share-based compensation,
    specific employee payroll and incentive compensation costs related to the
    completion and release of titles), as well as film production and other content
    costs, subsequent to establishing technological feasibility of a title. Amortization
    of such costs as a component of cost of goods sold (software development
    costs) is recorded on a title-by-title basis based on the greater of the
    proportion of current 

22 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

year sales to the total of current
    and estimated future sales for the title or the straight-line method over
    the remaining estimated useful life of the title. At each balance sheet date,
    we evaluate the recoverability of capitalized software costs based on undiscounted
    future cash flows and charge to cost of goods sold any amounts that are deemed
    unrecoverable. Royalties earned under our internal royalty program continue
    to be expensed as incurred as a component of cost of goods sold (royalties). 

Our agreements with third-party developers generally provide us with  exclusive publishing and distribution rights and require us to make advance  payments that are recouped against royalties due to the developer based on the  contractual amounts of product sales, adjusted for certain costs. Advance  payments are capitalized subsequent to establishing technological feasibility  and amortized as royalties in cost of goods sold on a title-by-title basis  based on the greater of the proportion of current year sales to the total of  current and estimated future sales for that title or the contractual royalty  rate based on actual net product sales as defined in the respective agreements.  At each balance sheet date, we evaluate the recoverability of advanced  development payments and unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to  determine the amounts unlikely to be realized through product sales. Advance  payments are charged to cost of goods sold in the amount that

management  determines is unrecoverable in the period in which such determination is made  or if management determines that it will cancel a development project. Criteria  used to evaluate expected product performance and to estimate future sales for  a title include historical performance of comparable titles, orders for titles  prior to release and the estimated performance of a sequel title based on the  performance of the title on which the sequel is based.  

Licenses  

Licenses consist of payments and guarantees
    made to licensors of intellectual property rights. Our agreements with certain
    licensors provide for minimum guaranteed payments for intellectual property
    licenses and other licensing rights which may be recouped against amounts
    due to the licensor or developer based on product sales. Minimum guaranteed
    payments are initially recorded as an asset (licenses) and as a liability
    (accrued licenses) at the contractual amount upon execution of the contract
    when no significant performance remains with the licensor. When significant
    performance remains with the licensor, we record payments when actually due. 

Licenses are amortized as royalties
    in cost of goods sold on a title-by-title basis based on the greater of the
    proportion of current year sales to the total of current and estimated future
    sales for that title or the contractual royalty rate based on actual net
    product sales as defined in the respective agreements. At each balance sheet
    date, we evaluate licenses as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments
    not yet paid to determine the amounts unlikely to be realized through product
    sales. License-based assets are charged to cost of goods sold in the amount
    that management determines is not probable of being recouped at the contractual
    royalty rate based on current and future sales in the period in which such
    determination is made. Criteria used to evaluate expected product performance
    and to estimate future sales for a title include historical performance of
    comparable titles, orders for titles prior to release and the estimated performance
    of a sequel title based on the  performance of the title on which the sequel
    is based.  

Income  Taxes  

Income tax assets and liabilities are determined by taxable  jurisdiction. We do not provide taxes on undistributed earnings of our  international subsidiaries. The total amount of undistributed earnings of  foreign subsidiaries was approximately $173,000 as of January 31, 2006. It is  currently our intention to reinvest undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries  and thereby indefinitely postpone their remittance. Accordingly, no provision  has been made for foreign withholding taxes or United States income taxes which  may become payable if undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries are paid  as dividends. The realization of deferred tax assets depends on whether we  generate future taxable income of the appropriate type. In addition, we may  adopt tax planning strategies to realize these assets. If future taxable income  does not materialize or tax planning strategies are not effective, we may be  required to record a valuation allowance.   

New tax legislation currently in place is intended to replace the  extraterritorial income ( ETI ) exclusion. We currently derive benefits from  the ETI exclusion, which is limited to 80% and 60% of the otherwise allowable  exclusion calendar years 2005 and 2006, respectively. There will be no ETI  deduction available after calendar year 2006. The new legislation permits a  deduction from taxable income based on certain qualified income from domestic  production activities. We do not expect to generate any taxable benefits from  this deduction in fiscal 2006.  

23 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

This new legislation also provides for a one-time 85% dividends  received deduction on repatriation of foreign earnings, which was applicable to  us if utilized by December 31, 2005. Historically, we have considered  undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely  reinvested and, accordingly, no incremental taxes have been provided thereon.  We did not repatriate foreign earnings under this provision.  

The provision (benefit) for income taxes for the three months ended  January 31, 2006 and 2005 are based on the company s estimated annualized  effective tax rates for the respective years. The estimated annualized  effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 is a benefit of 40.0% compared to an  estimated annualized effective tax rate for fiscal 2006, which was an expense  of 24.6%. The higher estimated annual effective tax rate in fiscal 2006 is  primarily attributable to forecasted losses in higher tax rate jurisdictions  and the U.S. tax benefit from the extraterritorial income exclusion. The lower  effective tax rate for the comparable period in fiscal 2005 was primarily  attributable to a higher proportion of forecasted earnings in lower tax rate  jurisdictions.   

As of January 31, 2006 and October
    31, 2005, prepaid taxes and taxes receivable primarily include carry-back
    and refund claims. The increase from October 31, 2005 is primarily attributable
    to an increase in carry-back claims anticipated for 2006. 

At each balance sheet date, we evaluate the estimated annual effective  tax rate based on updated information on forecasted income in each of our  jurisdictions. Any revisions to the tax rate are recorded in the current period  to reflect our current best estimate of the annual effective tax rate. 

We adopted FAS 123(R) on November
    1, 2005, which requires, among other items, the recognition of stock option
    expense in the results of operations. As a result of the adoption of SFAS
    123(R), the income tax effects of compensatory stock options are included
    in the computation of the income tax expense (benefit), and deferred tax
    assets and liabilities, subject to certain prospective adjustments to stockholders 
    equity for the differences between the income tax effects of expenses recognized
    in the results of operations and the related amounts deducted for income
    tax purposes. Prior to our adoption of SFAS 123(R) the tax benefits relating
    to the income tax deductions for compensatory stock options were recorded
directly to stockholders  equity.   

Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting  Pronouncements  

Effective November 1, 2005, we adopted
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) ( SFAS
    123(R) ),  Share-Based  Payment,  which revised Statement
    of Financial Accounting Standards 123 ( SFAS  123 ),  Accounting
    for Stock-Based Compensation.  SFAS 123(R) requires all  share-based
    payment transactions with employees, including grants of employee stock options,
    to be recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service period
    based on their relative fair values. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R),
    stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options was not
    recognized in the statement of operations if the exercise price was at least
    equal to the market value of the common stock on the grant date, in accordance
    with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for  Stock
    Issued to Employees.  Prior
    to November 1, 2005, we had adopted the disclosure-only

provisions under SFAS 123. In the three months ended January  31, 2006, stock-compensation
    expense of approximately $4.8 million, which excludes capitalizable costs
    of $1.3 million, was recorded in the condensed consolidated statement of
    operations
    in connection with adoption of SFAS 123(R). There was no cumulative effect
    of adoption. Refer to Note 3 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial
    statements for further information. There were no other new accounting pronouncements
 adopted during the first quarter of fiscal 2006. 

In May 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued  SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  ( SFAS 154 ), which  replaces APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes  and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting  Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements   An Amendment of APB  Opinion No. 28 . SFAS 154 provides guidance on the accounting for and reporting  of accounting changes and error corrections. It establishes retrospective  application, or the latest practicable date, as the required method for  reporting a change in accounting principle and the reporting of a correction of  an error. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of  errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. Management does  not believe the adoption of SFAS 154 will have a material impact on our  condensed consolidated financial statements.  

24 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Results  of Operations  

The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the percentage  of net revenues represented by certain items reflected in our statement of  operations, and sets forth net revenues by territory, sales mix, platform and  principal products:  

Our best-selling titles for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and  2005 as a percentage of net revenues are as follows: 

25 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Business Acquisitions  

During fiscal 2005 and the three months ended January 31, 2006, we  consummated the acquisitions described below. To the extent that the purchase  price allocation for these acquisitions is preliminary, we do not expect that  the final purchase price allocation will be materially different. The  acquisitions have been accounted for as purchase transactions and, accordingly,  the results of operations and financial position of the acquired businesses are  included in our condensed consolidated financial statements from the respective  dates of acquisition. Pro forma information has not been provided as the impact  of these acquisitions was not material.  

Firaxis  Games, Inc.  In November 2005, we acquired all of the outstanding  capital stock of Firaxis Games, Inc., a developer of PC and strategy titles,  including the  Civilization   franchise. The purchase price of approximately $15,442 consisted of $12,500 of  unregistered common stock and $4,085 of development advances previously paid to  Firaxis reduced by net cash acquired of $1,143. In connection with the  acquisition, we recorded $5,284 of identifiable intangible assets, comprised of  $1,130 of non-competition agreements and $4,154 of intellectual property,  $11,445 of goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes, $333 of net  assets and $1,620 of deferred tax liabilities, on a preliminary basis. We also  agreed to make additional payments of $11,250 based on future product sales, of  which approximately $10,000 will be recorded as additional purchase price when  the conditions requiring their payment are met and $1,250 will be recorded as

employee compensation expense. 

Irrational Studios LLC.  In  August 2005, we acquired all of the outstanding membership interests in Irrational  Studios, the developer of certain of our titles. The purchase price consisted  of $4,212 in cash and $2,000 of unregistered common stock, which was payable at  closing, $1,550 of development advances previously paid to Irrational and  $2,000 of deferred consideration which is payable in equal amounts on the first  and second anniversary of the acquisition. In connection with the acquisition,  we recorded $2,250 of identifiable intangible assets, $7,665 of goodwill, which  is deductible for tax purposes, $187 of non-current assets and $340 of net  current liabilities, on a preliminary basis. We also agreed to make additional  payments of $2,000 based on the delivery of products which will be recorded as  additional purchase price when the conditions requiring their payment are met. 

Gaia Capital Group.  In  June 2005, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Gaia Capital  Group and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, the developers of certain of our  titles. The purchase price consisted of $5,748 in cash, $4,055 of development  advances previously paid to Gaia and deferred consideration of $1,597. In  connection with the acquisition, we recorded $3,940 of identifiable intangible  assets, $7,918 of goodwill, which is deductible for tax purposes, $528 of  non-current assets and $986 of net current liabilities, on a preliminary basis. 

Visual Concepts Entertainment and  Kush Games.  In January 2005, we acquired from SEGA all of the  outstanding capital stock of Visual Concepts Entertainment and its wholly-owned  subsidiary, Kush Games, the developers of certain of our sports titles, and  certain intellectual property rights associated with these products. The  purchase price consisted of $27,794 in cash, $1,866 of development advances  previously paid to SEGA and contingent consideration of $2,593 based on the  release of certain titles. In connection with the acquisition, we recorded  $7,980 of identifiable intangible assets, $29,433 of goodwill, which is not  deductible for tax purposes, $1,196 of non-current assets, $3,164 of net  current liabilities and $3,192 of deferred tax liabilities related to  identifiable intangible assets. 

26 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Three Months ended January 31, 2006  and 2005  

Net Revenues   

Net Revenues .  The decrease in net  revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2006 primarily reflects an  unfavorable comparison to a period with strong sales of  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas  for the  PlayStation 2, which was released in October 2004. The decrease is also attributable  to lower distribution revenues and a decline in the prices of current  generation software titles due to weaker market conditions and the ongoing  transition to next generation hardware platforms. Publishing revenues for the  three months ended January 31, 2006 primarily reflects sales of  Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories  for the PSP,  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas  across multiple platforms and  Sid  Meier s Civilization IV  for PC. Publishing revenues for the  three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 include licensing revenues of  $3,042 and $2,332, respectively. 

Products designed for video game console platforms accounted for 47.6%  of publishing revenues as compared to 95.8% for the comparable period last  year. Products designed for PC platforms accounted for 12.1% of publishing  revenues as compared to 1.8% for the prior comparable period. The increase in  sales of products for PC platforms as a percentage of publishing revenues was  primarily attributable to sales of  Sid  Meier s Civilization IV  and  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas  for  PC. We anticipate that our platform mix will be heavily weighted toward console  platforms and the PSP handheld system, but may fluctuate from period to period.   

Distribution revenues are derived from the sale of third-party software  titles, accessories and hardware. The decrease in distribution revenues was  primarily attributable to a continued decline in sales volume of value and  front-line software titles, a decrease in average selling prices of interactive  entertainment products as our industry transitions to next generation platforms  and increased competition in the value software segment. The decline in sales  of software titles was partially offset by an increase in hardware sales and  peripherals, primarily attributable to the Xbox 360 and related accessories and  to continued demand for the Sony PSP. 

International operations accounted
    for approximately $75,382, or 28.4% of net revenues for the three months
    ended January 31, 2006 compared to $172,130, or 34.3% of net revenues for
    the three months ended January 31, 2005. The decrease was primarily attributable
    to lower publishing revenues in Europe, which reflected the unfavorable comparison
    to a period with significant sales of  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas   for
    the PlayStation 2, which was launched in Europe in October 2004. International
    revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2006 are primarily attributable
    to sales of  Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories  for  the PSP ,   and  Grand
    Theft Auto: San Andreas  and  Torino 2006   across multiple
    platforms .    

Net revenues related to international operations were reduced by  approximately $6,796 and increased by $16,586 due to changes in foreign  exchange rates in the three months ended January 31, 2006 and January 31, 2005,  respectively. We expect international net revenues to continue to account for a  significant portion of our revenues.  

Cost of Goods Sold   

27 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Product costs.   The decrease in product  costs in absolute dollars is consistent with the decrease in publishing and  distribution revenues. The increase as a percentage of net revenues was  primarily due to the higher proportion of distribution revenues, including  sales of hardware products, which have higher product costs than publishing  revenues. Additionally, net revenues for the three months ended January 31,  2006 were reduced by lower prices on current generation software titles, which  resulted in an increase in product costs as a percentage of net revenues for  the current period.  

Royalties.   The decrease in royalties  is primarily due to the decrease in publishing revenues. Royalty expense for  the three months ended January 31, 2006 is primarily attributable to internal  royalty costs related to sales of  Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories  for  the PSP and  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas   for the PlayStation 2 and Xbox. In the comparable prior period, higher internal  royalty costs are related to significant sales of  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas  for the PlayStation 2, which  was released in October 2004.  

Software development costs.   The
    increase in software development costs is due to sales of a larger number
    of internally developed titles resulting in higher amortization of capitalized
    costs as compared to the prior period. Sales of our internally developed
    sports and other titles for current and next generation console platforms,
    including  Amped
    3  and   NBA 2K6  for  the Xbox 360,  Grand Theft Auto: Liberty
    City Stories  for the PSP and  The Warriors   across multiple platforms
    contributed to the increase in software development costs for the three months
    ended January 31, 2006. In the comparable fiscal 2005 period, software development
    costs were primarily attributable to sales of  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas  for
    the PlayStation 2.  

In future periods, cost of goods sold may be adversely affected by  manufacturing and other costs, price competition and by changes in product and  sales mix, distribution channels and royalty arrangements.  

Operating Expenses   

Selling and marketing .  The decrease in  selling and marketing expense in absolute dollars is primarily due to lower  marketing and promotional spending by approximately $8.1 million in the current  period. The increase as a percentage of net revenues is primarily due to a  decrease in net revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2006. In the  comparable fiscal 2005 period, higher advertising and marketing costs were  primarily attributable to the release of  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas  for the  PlayStation 2, which occurred in October 2004, and additional marketing  commitments associated with our sports titles.    

General and administrative .  The increase in general and  administrative expense is primarily due to increased compensation and payroll  related costs of $5.5 million for additional personnel to support the expected  growth of our business. Compensation and payroll related costs included  approximately $3.2 million of stock compensation expense due to the adoption of  SFAS 123(R), effective November 1, 2005. The increase was also due to higher  rent and office related expenses of approximately $2.4 million primarily due to  development studios acquired since the first quarter of fiscal 2005 and an  increase in professional fees of approximately $1.6 million related to  Sarbanes-Oxley compliance, legal matters and process improvement. The increase  in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues was also  impacted by a decline in net revenues for the three months ended January 31,  2006. 

Research and development.   The decrease  in research and development expense in absolute dollars is primarily due to a  decrease of approximately $7.8 million in incentive compensation costs for  personnel, which is consistent with lower net revenues. For the three months  ended January 31, 2006, incentive compensation directly related to the 

28 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

completion and release of our titles is capitalized as software  development costs and will subsequently be amortized as cost of goods sold upon  release of the title. The increase as a percentage of net revenues is primarily  due to a decline in net revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2006.  

A substantial portion of our research and development costs are  capitalized once software development projects reach technological feasibility,  which is relatively early in the development process, and subsequently  amortized as cost of goods sold. However, amounts earned under our internal  royalty program continue to be expensed as incurred in cost of goods sold. 

Depreciation and amortization.    Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to higher  depreciation related to the upgrading of software systems, our new office and  warehouse facility for our Jack of all Games subsidiary, additional leasehold  improvements related to development studios acquired since the first quarter of  2005 and the addition of new offices for our 2K publishing labels.  

Income (Loss) from operations.   Income  (loss) from operations decreased by $121,544 or 167.1%, to a loss of $48,790  for the three months ended January 31, 2006 from income of $72,754 for the  three months ended January 31, 2005, due to the changes referred to above.  Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased the loss from operations by  approximately $482 for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and increased  income from operations by approximately $2,511 for the three months ended  January 31, 2005.  

Interest income, net.   Interest income  decreased by $287, or 53.1% to $253 for the three months ended January 31, 2006  from $540 for the prior comparable period due to interest earned on a lower  average cash balance.  

Provision (benefit) for income
        taxes.    Income tax benefit is $19,415 for the three months ended
        January 31, 2006 as compared to income tax expense of $18,045 for the
        three months ended January 31, 2005. The decrease is primarily attributable
        to our net loss for the period. The estimated annual effective tax rate
        is a benefit of 40.0% for the three months ended January 31, 2006, compared
        to an estimated effective tax rate for the comparable period in fiscal
        2005, which was an expense of 24.6%. The higher estimated annual effective
        tax rate in fiscal 2006 is primarily attributable to forecasted losses
        in higher tax rate jurisdictions and the U.S. tax benefit from the extraterritorial
        income exclusion. The lower effective tax rate for the comparable period
        in fiscal 2005 was primarily attributable to a higher proportion of forecasted
        earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions.  

We adopted FAS 123(R) on November
    1, 2005, which requires, among other items, the recognition of stock option
    expense in the results of operations. As a result of the adoption of SFAS
    123(R), the income tax effects of compensatory stock options are included
    in the computation of the income tax expense (benefit), and deferred tax
    assets and liabilities, subject to certain prospective adjustments to stockholders 
    equity for the differences between the income tax effects of expenses recognized
    in the results of operations and the related amounts deducted for income
    tax purposes. Prior to our adoption of SFAS 123(R) the tax benefits relating
    to the income tax deductions for compensatory stock options were recorded
directly to stockholders  equity. 

We are regularly audited by domestic and foreign taxing authorities.  Audits may result in tax assessments in excess of amounts claimed and the  payment of additional taxes. We believe that our tax positions comply with  applicable tax law, and that we have adequately provided for reasonably  foreseeable tax assessments.  

Net income (loss) .  For the three  months ended January 31, 2006, net loss was $29,122 as compared to net income  of $55,249 for the three months ended January 31, 2005, a decrease of $84,371,  or 152.7%. The decrease resulted from the changes referred to above.  

Diluted net income (loss) per share.    Diluted net loss per share for the three months ended January 31, 2006 of  $0.41, decreased $1.20 as compared to diluted net income per share of $0.79 for  the three months ended January 31, 2005, principally due to the net loss for  the period and increase in the weighted average common shares outstanding.  

29 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Liquidity  and Capital Resources  

Our primary cash requirements are to fund the development and marketing  of our products. We satisfy our working capital requirements primarily through  cash flow from operations. At January 31, 2006, we had working capital of  $333,724 as compared to working capital of $378,967 at October 31, 2005. 

Cash and cash equivalents increased by $35,702 for the three months  ended January 31, 2006 as follows: 

Operating Activities.   Cash provided by  operating activities for the three months ended January 31, 2006 was $39,459  compared to $189,476 for the three months ended January 31, 2005. The decrease  is primarily due to the net loss in the current period, adjusted for non-cash  items including amortization of software development costs and licenses and the  provision for doubtful accounts and sales allowances. The decrease is also due  to additional expenditures related to the development of our titles and  subsequent payment of accounts payable related to inventory purchased prior to  October 31, 2005. 

Investing Activities.   Net cash used in  investing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2006 was $5,313  compared to $48,895 for the three months ended January 31, 2005. Net cash used  in the current period primarily reflects the purchase of fixed assets partially  offset by net cash acquired in the acquisition of Firaxis.  The prior year period reflects the  acquisition of Visual Concepts and Kush and the intellectual property of  Civilization . 

Financing Activities.   Net cash  provided by financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2006  was $1,095 as compared to $7,338 for the three months ended January 31, 2005.  The decrease was primarily attributable to lower proceeds from the exercise of  stock options. 

Significant Balance Sheet Changes  

Accounts Receivable:   The decrease of $92,520 in gross accounts receivable, before allowances, from  October 31, 2005 to January 31, 2006, was primarily due to additional cash  collections of holiday sales and is consistent with the seasonal fluctuations  of our business. Our allowances, which include doubtful accounts, returns,  price concessions, rebates and other sales allowances, increased to $91,170 at  January 31, 2006 from $69,904 at October 31, 2005 and increased as a percentage  of receivables to 52.0% at January 31, 2006 from 26.1% at October 31, 2005. The  increase in the allowance is due to weaker market conditions and the ongoing  transition to next generation hardware platforms. The increase was slightly  offset by a decrease in the reserve for remaining product returns as a result  of the re-rating of  Grand Theft Auto: San  Andreas  by the ESRB in July 2005, which was $7,714 at October 31,  2005 and $1,185 at January 31, 2006.

As of January 31, 2006, the receivable balances from our five largest  retail customers accounted for approximately 46.9% of our gross receivable  balance. Target, Best Buy and Wal-Mart accounted for approximately 12.1%, 12.0%  and 11.6%, respectively, of our gross receivable balance. Generally, we have  been able to collect our receivables in the ordinary course of business.  

We do not hold any collateral to secure payment from customers and our  domestic receivables are not covered by insurance. However, from time to time  we purchase insurance from financial institutions on our receivables, with  certain limits, to help protect us from loss in the event of a customer s  bankruptcy or insolvency. 

30 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

We are subject to credit risks, particularly in the event that any of  the receivables represent a limited number of retailers. If we are unable to  collect our accounts receivable as they become due, it could adversely affect  our liquidity and working capital position and we would be required to increase  our provision for doubtful accounts.  

Loan Facilities:   On August
    24, 2005, we entered into a new credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank,
    N.A. ( JPMorgan ), and terminated our credit agreement with Bank
    of America, N.A, which would have expired on August 28, 2005. The JPMorgan
    credit agreement provides for borrowings of up to $50,000 through the expiration
    of the agreement on August 23, 2006. Advances under the credit agreement
    bear interest at a rate of 0.25% to 0.75% over the bank s prime rate,
    or at the Eurodollar rate plus 1.25% to 1.75% depending on our consolidated
    leverage ratio. We are required to pay a commitment fee to the bank equal
    to 0.25% of the unused loan balance and borrowings under the agreement are
    collateralized by certain of our assets. The credit agreement also contains
    financial and other covenants (including a consolidated asset coverage ratio)
    and prohibits us from paying cash dividends, merging or consolidating with
    another corporation, selling or acquiring assets (other than in the ordinary
    course of business), creating liens and incurring additional indebtedness.
    Available borrowings under the agreement are reduced by the amount of any
    outstanding stand-by letters of credit, which is $1,560 at January 31, 2006.
    We had no borrowings under the credit agreement  and we were in compliance
    with all financial and other covenants at January 31, 2006. 

In May 2005, our United Kingdom subsidiary renewed its credit facility  agreement with Lloyds TSB Bank plc ( Lloyds ) under which Lloyds agreed to make  available borrowings of up to approximately $23,000. Advances under the credit  facility bear interest at the rate of 1.25% per annum over the bank s base  rate, and are guaranteed by us. Available borrowings under the agreement are  reduced by the amount of outstanding guarantees. The facility expires on March  31, 2006. We had no outstanding guarantees and no borrowings under this  facility as of January 31, 2006.  

Capital Expenditures:  In fiscal 2006, we expect to spend an  additional $5,000 in connection with the continued improvement of our network  infrastructure and software systems for our domestic and international  operations. We also expect to make additional capital expenditures of approximately  $1,000 for leasehold improvements and equipment in our new warehouse facilities  in Cincinnati, Ohio, $1,000 for leasehold improvements and equipment in our  warehouse facilities in Toronto, Canada and a further $2,000 for leasehold  improvements and equipment for several of our studios. As of the date of this  report, we have no other material commitments for capital expenditures.  

Stock Split:  In April 2005, we effected a  three-for-two stock split in the form of a stock dividend. Accordingly, all  share and per share data in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated  financial statements and notes thereto give retroactive effect to the stock  split. 

Legal and Accounting Expenses:  We  have incurred and may continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other  professional fees and expenses in connection with pending regulatory and  litigation matters.  

Based on our currently proposed operating plans and assumptions, we  believe that projected cash flow from operations and available cash resources,  including amounts available under our line of credit, will be sufficient to  satisfy our cash requirements for the foreseeable future. If our projected cash  flow and available cash is insufficient to fund our operations or if our plans  and assumptions change or prove to be inaccurate, we may be required to seek  additional financing or curtail our diversification activities. 

31 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Contractual Obligations and  Contingent Liabilities and Commitments   

A summary of annual minimum contractual obligations  and commitments as of January 31, 2006 is as follows: 

Licensing and Marketing Agreements :  Our license expense consists primarily of payments to licensors of intellectual  properties under agreements which expire at various times through December  2012. As of January 31, 2006, we have minimum guaranteed licensing and  marketing commitments of $342,757 outstanding under various licensing  agreements of which $4,062 are recorded in our condensed consolidated balance  sheet as the licensor does not have any significant performance obligation.  Minimum guaranteed licensing and marketing commitments primarily reflect our  agreements with major sports leagues and players  associations.  

Software Development Agreements:  Our  payments made to third-party developers include contractual advances and  royalty payments under agreements which expire at various times through  November 2008. Assuming performance by third-party developers, we have  aggregate outstanding commitments of $66,209 under various software development  agreements at January 31, 2006. We have also established an internal royalty  program pursuant to which we pay royalties to certain of our development  personnel based on product sales. Royalties earned under our internal royalty  program are expensed as incurred. 

Lease Commitments:  Our  offices and warehouse facilities are occupied under non-cancelable operating  leases expiring at various times from April 2006 to October 2014. We also lease  certain furniture, equipment and automobiles under non-cancelable leases  expiring through November 2009. Future minimum rental payments for fiscal 2006  are $13,015 and aggregate minimum rental payments through applicable lease  expirations are $94,845.  

Distribution Agreements:  We  periodically enter into distribution agreements to purchase various software  games that require minimum guaranteed payments. These agreements, which expire  at various dates through January 2007, require remaining aggregate minimum  guaranteed payments of $4,235 at January 31, 2006.  

Contingent Consideration:  In  November 2005, in connection with the acquisition of Firaxis, we agreed to make  additional payments of $11,250 based on future product sales, of which  approximately $10,000 will be recorded as additional purchase price and $1,250  will be recorded as employee compensation expense. 

In fiscal 2005, in connection with the acquisition of Irrational, we  agreed to make additional payments of $2,000 to the former owners of Irrational  based on the delivery of products. We do not anticipate making these contingent  payments within the next twelve months due to the expected timing of product  releases. Additionally, in fiscal 2005, in connection with the acquisition of  Visual Concepts and Kush Games, we agreed to make additional payments of  approximately $2,600 to SEGA based on the commercial release of products. The  additional payments to SEGA are expected to be made in fiscal 2006.  

In March 2005, we renegotiated a $6,000 contingent obligation due upon  the delivery of the final PC version of  Duke  Nukem Forever  through the payment of $4,250 and issuance of a promissory  note in the principal amount of $500. The payment of the promissory note is  contingent upon the commercial release of such product prior to December 31,  2006. 

In fiscal 2004, in connection with the acquisition of Mobius, we agreed  to make additional contingent payments of approximately $1,950 based on the  delivery of products. In fiscal 2003, we also agreed to make additional  payments of up to $2,500 to the former owners of Cat Daddy based on a  percentage of Cat Daddy s future profits for the first three years after  acquisition. We do not anticipate making these contingent payments within the  next twelve months. 

32 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Fluctuations  in Operating Results and Seasonality  

We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly  operating results as a result of the timing of the introduction of new titles;  variations in sales of titles developed for particular platforms; market  acceptance of our titles; development and promotional expenses relating to the  introduction of new titles; sequels or enhancements of existing titles;  projected and actual changes in platforms; the timing and success of title  introductions by our competitors; product returns; changes in pricing policies  by us and our competitors; the accuracy of retailers  forecasts of consumer  demand; the size and timing of acquisitions; the timing of orders from major  customers; and order cancellations and delays in product shipment. Sales of our  titles are also seasonal, with peak shipments typically occurring in the fourth  calendar quarter (our fourth and first fiscal quarters) as a result of  increased demand for titles during the holiday season. Quarterly comparisons

of  operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.   

International Operations  

Net revenues in international markets, principally in the United  Kingdom and other countries in Europe, have accounted for a significant portion  of our net revenues. For the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, net  revenues in international markets accounted for approximately 28.4% and 34.3%,  respectively, of our net revenues. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign  trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in  foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays and international political,  regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant  impact on our operating results.  

33 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Item  3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

We are subject to market risks in the ordinary course of our business,  primarily risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency  fluctuations.  

Historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant  impact on our operating results. At January 31, 2006, we had no outstanding  variable rate indebtedness.  

We transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks  resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Accounts  relating to foreign operations are translated into United States dollars using prevailing  exchange rates at the relevant quarter end. Translation adjustments are  included as a separate component of stockholders  equity. For the three months  ended January 31, 2006, our foreign currency translation adjustment gain was  $517. Foreign exchange transaction gain for the three months ended January 31,  2006 was $890. A hypothetical 10% change in applicable currency exchange rates  at January 31, 2006 would result in a material translation adjustment.  

Item 4. Controls and Procedures  

Evaluation of disclosure controls  and procedures   

The company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are  designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the company s  reports under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported  within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and that such  information is accumulated and communicated to management, as appropriate, to  allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our management, with  participation of the company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial  Officer, has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the company s  disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the Securities Exchange Act  of 1934 Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by  this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.  

As previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal year ended October 31, 2005, we determined that, as of the October 31,  2005, there were two material weaknesses affecting our internal control over  financial reporting and, as a result of those weaknesses, the company s  disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. As described below, we  are in the process of remediating those material weaknesses. Consequently,  based on the evaluation described above, our management, including our Chief  Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have concluded that, as of  January 31, 2006, the company s disclosure controls and procedures were not  effective. 

Management s  Remediation Initiatives  

As previously reported in the company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the fiscal year ended October 31, 2005, management determined that, as of  October 31, 2005, there were material weaknesses in the company s internal  control over financial reporting relating to (i) ineffective controls over the  existence and valuation of its accounts payable related to inventory purchases  and (ii) ineffective controls over the accuracy of the amortization of its  capitalized costs. As reported in the Annual Report for fiscal 2005, we  initiated a number of changes in our internal controls to remediate these  material weaknesses. Although these changes were initiated during the first  quarter of fiscal 2006, the remediation effort is not yet completed.  Specifically, the company is in the process of implementing the following  measures to remediate the control deficiencies: 

The company is in the process of developing reports to assist in the    analysis of accounts payable related to inventory purchases to ensure there    is adequate and timely reconciliation of these accounts.  

The company has added an additional level of review of the    amortization of capitalized software development costs to ensure the accuracy    of the information used in this calculation. The company has also redesigned    the reconciliation schedules in this area to make it easier to review.    Further, the company has initiated a feasibility study to determine ways to    automate the inputs and/or calculation of these amounts to reduce or eliminate    the data entry involved in the current process. Although management believes    that this control is in place, it has not been tested for a sufficient period    to conclude that the control is effective. 

34 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Changes in Internal Control over  Financial Reporting  

Other than as described above, there have  been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred  during the first quarter ended January 31, 2006 that have materially affected,  or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over  financial reporting. 

35 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION  

Item  1.     Legal Proceedings  

Following the re-rating of  Grand  Theft Auto: San Andreas  by the Entertainment Software Rating Board ( ESRB )  from  M  (age 17 and over) rating to an  AO  (age 18 and over) rating in July  2005, we were notified by the staff of the Federal Trade Commission s ( FTC )  Division of Advertising Practices that it is conducting an inquiry into  advertising claims made for the title and whether we engaged in unfair or  deceptive acts or practices in violation of section 5 of the Federal Trade  Commission Act, 15 U.S.C., Section 45. We are cooperating with the FTC inquiry  and believes that it acted in accordance with all applicable laws and  regulations.   

In July 2005, we received three purported
    class action complaints against the company and its subsidiary, Rockstar
    Games, two of which were filed in the United States District Court for the
    Southern District of New York and one such complaint which was filed in the
    United States District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania. On September
    8, 2005, another similar complaint was filed in the Circuit Court for the
    Twentieth Judicial District, St. Clair County, Illinois. The plaintiffs,
    alleged purchasers of the  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas  game, allege
    that the company and Rockstar Games engaged in consumer deception, false
    advertising and common law fraud and were unjustly enriched as a result of
    the alleged failure of the company and Rockstar Games to disclose that  Grand
    Theft Auto: San Andreas  contained   hidden  content, which
    resulted in the game receiving an  M  rating from the  ESRB rather
    than an  AO  rating. The complaints seek unspecified damages,
    declarations of various violations of law and litigation costs. The New York
    actions and the Pennsylvania action have been consolidated in the Southern
    District of New York under the caption  In re Grand Theft Auto Video Game
    Consumer Litigation , (05-CV-6734 (BSJ)). The Illinois action has been
    removed to the United States District Court for the Southern District of
    Illinois, and the company has moved the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
    for an order transferring the Illinois action to the Southern District of
    New York for coordinated or consolidated proceedings with the actions pending
    in New York.   

In January 2006, the City Attorney for the City of Los Angeles filed a  complaint against the company and Rockstar Games in the Superior Court of the  State of California. The complaint alleges that the company and Rockstar Games  violated sections of the California Business and Professions Code prohibiting  untrue and misleading statements and unfair competition and that the company  and Rockstar Games were unjustly enriched as a result of the alleged failure to  disclose that  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas   contained  hidden  content which should have resulted in the game receiving an  Adults Only ( AO ) rating from the ESRB rather than a Mature ( M ) rating. The  complaint also alleges that the company made misleading statements as to the  origin of the  hidden  content. The complaint seeks injunctive relief,  restitution for purchasers of the game and civil fines. The company has also  received requests for documents

and information from the Attorneys General of  the States of North Carolina and Connecticut relating to  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . 

In February and March 2006, an aggregate
    of four purported class action complaints were filed against the company,
    its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and former Chief Global
    Operating Officer in the United States District Court for the Southern District
    of New York (the  New York  Actions ). Plaintiffs for the complaints
    are Max Kaplan, John Fenninger, David Andrews and David Toth. The complaints
    allege that the defendants violated Sections 10(b), 20(a) and Rule 10b-5
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ) by making
    or causing the company to make untrue statements or failing to disclose in
    certain press releases and SEC periodic reports that, among other things:  Grand
    Theft Auto: San Andreas   contained   hidden  content which
     should have resulted in the game receiving an Adults Only ( AO )
     rating from the ESRB rather than a Mature ( M ) rating; the  defendants
    attempted to bolster

sales of  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas  by  concealing the  adult
content  from
retailers who refused to carry AO material; the company s management failed
to keep the Board of Directors informed of important issues or failed to do so
in a timely fashion; and the company was misstating capitalized software development
costs and amortization expense and had inadequate
internal
controls and procedures to ensure accuracy in its reported financial results.
The plaintiffs seek to recover unspecified damages and their costs in these actions. 

In January 2006, the St. Clair Shores General Employees Retirement  System filed a purported class and derivative action complaint in the Southern  District of New York against the company, as nominal defendant, and certain of  the company s officers and directors and certain former officers and  directors.  The factual allegations in  this action are similar to the allegations contained in the New York Actions.  Plaintiff asserts that certain defendants breached their fiduciary duty by  selling company stock while in possession of certain material non-public  information and breached their fiduciary duty and violated Section 14(a) and  Rule 14a-9 of the Exchange Act by failing to disclose material facts in the  company s 2003, 2004 and 2005 proxy statements in which the company solicited  approval to  

36 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

increase share availability under its 2002 Stock Option Plan. Plaintiff  seeks the return of all profits from the alleged insider trading conducted by  the individual defendants who sold company stock, unspecified compensatory  damages with interest and their costs in the action.  

In February 2006, Bamboo Partners,
    LLC, filed a purported class action and derivative complaint in the Court
    of Chancery of the State of Delaware against the company as nominal defendant
    and certain officers and directors and former officers and directors.  The
    factual allegations in this action are similar to the allegations contained
    in the New York Actions. The plaintiff alleges that certain defendants breached
    their fiduciary obligations as a result of the company s misrepresentations
    regarding its business and prospects and that they disseminated materially
    false information to the company s stockholders. Plaintiff also alleges
    that individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties through mismanagement
    and a failure of oversight and by diluting the company s stock as a
    result of omissions in the company s 2003, 2004 and 2005 proxy statements
    relating to increases in share availability under its 2002 Stock Option Plan.
    Plaintiff also claims that the company is entitled to contribution and indemnification
    from the individual defendants and to a return of certain bonuses and incentive
    payments made to certain officers.  In  addition to the return of these
    payments, plaintiff seeks recovery of profits from alleged insider trading
    under theories of alleged unjust enrichment and abuse of control, and unspecified
    damages against the individual defendants, attorney s fees and costs. 

In January 2006, Todd Veeck filed a complaint in the Court of Chancery  of the State of Delaware against the company pursuant to the 8  Del. C.     220 to compel inspection of the company s books and records in order to   investigate  possible breaches of fiduciary duties with regard to the  creation, development, marketing and sale of the company s  Grand
Theft Auto  line of  products.  

In February 2005, the personal representatives
    of the Estates of Arnold Strickland and Ace Mealer brought an action in the
    Circuit Court of Fayette County, Alabama against the company, Sony Computer
    of America, Wal-Mart, GameStop and Devin Moore alleging under Alabama s
    manufacturers  liability and  wrongful death statutes that the company s
    video games designed, manufactured, marketed and/or supplied to Mr. Moore
    resulted in  copycat violence  that  caused the death of Messrs.
    Strickland and Mealer. The suit seeks damages (including punitive damages)
    against all of the defendants in excess of $600 million. Wal-Mart and Sony
    Computer of America have tendered their defense and requested indemnification
    from the company, and the company has accepted such tender. The company s
    motion to dismiss the action was denied and the company moved to have certain
    issues certified for an immediate interlocutory appeal before the Alabama
    Supreme Court.  

We intend to  vigorously defend and
    seek dismissal of these matters and, with respect to the derivative actions,
    we have been advised that the individual defendants will vigorously defend
    such actions. However, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters and,
    if determined adversely
    to the
    company,
    such
    matters,
    either singly or in the aggregate, could result in the imposition of significant
    judgments, fines and/or penalties which could have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition, cash flows or  results of operations. 

We are involved in routine litigation in the ordinary course of its  business, which in management s opinion will not have a material adverse effect  on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.  

37 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Item  1A. Cautionary Statement and Risk Factors   

Safe Harbor Statement under the Securities Litigation Reform  Act of 1995.   

We make statements in this report that are considered  forward-looking statements under federal securities laws. Such forward-looking  statements are based on the beliefs of management as well as assumptions made  by and information currently available to them. The words  expect,    anticipate,   believe,   may,   estimate,   intend  and similar expressions  are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking  statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions including, but not  limited to, the following which could cause our actual results, performance or  achievements to be materially different from results, performance or achievements,  expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  

We have incurred a net loss for the quarter  ended January 31, 2006, and we may incur future net losses.   

Although we have achieved increasing
    levels of revenue and have generated profits in each of our last three fiscal
    years, we have incurred a net loss for the quarter ended January 31, 2006
    primarily as a result of a weak retail environment during the holiday season
    and lower than expected sales of interactive entertainment products as our
    industry transitions to next generation technology. We expect to incur increased
    levels of expenses associated with significant product development and licensing
    commitments over the next year in connection with the diversification of
    our product offerings and the transition to next generation platforms. We
    anticipate that we will continue to incur losses until such time as we generate
    sufficient levels of revenues to offset these increased costs. Continued
losses could adversely affect the price of our common stock. 

Rapidly changing technology and hardware  cycles could adversely affect our operations and our ability to forecast our  operating results.    

The interactive entertainment industry
    is cyclical and is associated with rapidly changing technology. Microsoft
    introduced its next generation hardware platform into the marketplace in
    November 2005, and we expect that Sony and Nintendo will introduce their
    respective next generation hardware platforms during calendar year 2006.
    As a result, consumer demand for software for older platforms has declined
    as newer and more advanced hardware platforms achieve market acceptance.
    During the transition to next generation platforms, we expect to continue
    to devote significant development resources to products designed for current
    generation platforms, including Sony s PlayStation 2 and  Microsoft s
    Xbox. Consumers may elect to defer purchases of game software for these platforms
    until newer platforms become available.  Consumer demand for these platforms
    may continue to decline generally or as a result of the next generation platform
    transition. Additionally, we have reduced prices for our current generation
    software titles and we may continue to reduce prices for our current generation
    software titles, which may result in lower than expected sales or losses
    from products designed for older platforms. 

During the transition to next generation
    platforms, we are devoting significant development resources to products
    designed for next generation hardware platforms, initially for the Xbox 360
    video game and entertainment system from Microsoft. Our ultimate success
    will depend on our ability to accurately predict which platforms will achieve
    widespread consumer acceptance. The time, resources and costs associated
    with the development of next generation software have increased substantially,
    which increases our risk of loss in the event that new platforms do not achieve
    commercial success. It is difficult to anticipate hardware development cycles,
    and we have made and will continue to make both internal and external software
    development commitments and product investment decisions well in advance
    of the introduction of new hardware platforms, resulting in net cash outflows.
    To date, Microsoft has shipped limited quantities of the Xbox 360, resulting
    in next

generation  hardware shortages that have negatively impacted sales of next generation
    software.  If new hardware platforms are  delayed, are shipped in limited
    quantities or do not achieve consumer acceptance, we may be unable to recover
    our investments and our business and operating results could be materially
    adversely affected. Furthermore, during such transition, our operating results
    may become more volatile and more difficult to predict, which could cause
    wide fluctuations in our stock price. 

A number of software publishers who
    compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing
    online games for use by consumers over the Internet. Future increased consumer
    acceptance and increases in the availability of online games or technological
    advances in online game software sales or the Internet could result in a
    decline in platform-based software sales and negatively impact sales of our products.
    Direct sales of software over the Internet by our competitors could materially
    adversely affect our distribution business.  

38 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

The market for our titles is characterized  by short product life cycles. Delays in product releases or disruptions  following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse  effect on our operating results.   

The market for our titles is characterized
    by short product life cycles and frequent introductions of new products.
    New products may not achieve significant market acceptance or generate sufficient
    sales to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs
    associated with these products. The life cycle of a title generally involves
    a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction
    followed by a rapid decline in sales. Because revenues associated with an
    initial product launch generally constitute a high percentage of the total
    revenues associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases
    or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products
    could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our
    operating results to be materially different from expectations. We have experienced
    delays in product releases and in fiscal 2005 our revenues were negatively
     impacted by product returns due to the re-rating by the ESRB of  Grand
     Theft Auto: San Andreas  from  M  (age 17 and older) to  AO  (age
     18 and older). Such delays and disruptions may occur in the future. In addition,
     if we release a limited number of new products during any period, the failure
     of one or more of such products to achieve market acceptance could result
     in lower than anticipated revenues and significant operating losses. 

A substantial portion of our revenues is  derived from a limited number of titles, and we must continue to publish  hit   titles in order to succeed.   

Grand Theft Auto   and certain
    of our other titles are  hit  products and have historically  accounted
    for a substantial portion of our revenues. For the three months ended January
    31, 2006, our ten best selling titles accounted for approximately 41.7% of
    our revenues, with  Grand Theft Auto:  Liberty City Stories  for the
    PSP accounting for 19.5% of our revenues;  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas  for
    the PlayStation 2 accounting for 5.5% of our revenues;  Sid Meier s
    Civilization IV  for PC  accounting for 4.6% of our revenues; and  NBA
    2K6  for Xbox 360 accounting for 2.4% of our revenues. For the three
    months ended January 31, 2005, our ten best selling titles accounted for
    approximately 64.8% of our revenues, with  Grand  Theft Auto: San Andreas  for
    the PlayStation 2 accounting for 57.1% of our revenues;  Grand Theft Auto:
    Vice City   for the PlayStation accounting for 1.3% of our revenues;  ESPN
    NBA 2K5  for the PlayStation 2  accounting for 1.3% of our revenues; and  ESPN
    NFL 2K5  for the PlayStation 2 accounting for 1.1% of our revenues.  For
    the years ended October 31, 2005 and October 31, 2004, our ten best selling
    titles accounted for approximately 48.2% and 46.3%, respectively, of our
    revenues, with  Grand Theft Auto  products accounting for 38.2% and
     34.3%, respectively of such revenues for these periods. If we fail to continue
    to develop and sell new commercially successful  hit  titles or
    experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial
    release of our  hit  titles, our revenues and profits may decrease
    substantially and we may incur losses.  

We are dependent on our management and  other key personnel for our success. If we fail to retain creative and product  development personnel, our business could be seriously harmed.    

We rely on our management and other
    key personnel for the successful operation of our business. In particular,
    we are highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain
    of our Rockstar employees responsible for content creation and development
    of  Grand Theft Auto  and other titles. Although we recently  entered
    into three-year employment agreements with such Rockstar employees, and we
    have granted them incentives including an internal royalty program based
    on sales of Rockstar published products,
    there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to retain these
    personnel
    at
    current
    compensation
    levels, or at all. The compensation arrangements with such Rockstar employees
    could result in increased expenses and have a negative impact on our operating
    results. If one or more of these individuals leave the company, we may lose
    additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development
    and delays in bringing products to market, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our operating results. Additionally, failure to continue to attract
    and retain qualified management personnel could adversely affect our business
    and prospects. 

Our efforts to diversify our product  offerings and expand into the market for sports and other licensed titles may  not be successful. Our significant investments in licenses for sports titles  may not result in profitable operations.   

We have recently diversified our product offerings by capitalizing on  significant growth opportunities in the market for sports and other licensed  action and strategy titles. Our success in this market will depend in part on  our ability to attract licensors with popular properties and to enter into  favorable arrangements with these licensors, including licensors representing  the major sports leagues and players  associations. Competition for sports and  other licensed properties is intense. If we are unable to continue to obtain  and maintain licenses to popular properties, our revenue 

39 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

and profitability with respect to these products could decline  dramatically. Competition for licenses has also increased advances and  royalties payable to licensors, which currently represent substantial financial  commitments on our behalf. We may be unable to continue to enter into favorable  license agreements, for financial or other reasons, and despite our efforts to  diversify our product offerings, we may be unable to achieve increased levels  of revenues or profitability. 

Our business is dependent on our ability to  enter into favorable publishing and intellectual property licensing  arrangements with third parties.   

Our success depends on our ability
    to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. We have
    entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish
    and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed
    intellectual properties in our titles. These agreements typically require
    us to make advance payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions.
    Our advance payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop
    new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly
    increase our costs to bring particular products to market. Software development
    costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software
    developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent
    years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. Future
    sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover advances to software
    developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other
    resources to satisfy our contractual commitments, which are approximately
    $52.8 million for licensing and marketing and approximately $37.9 million
    for software development for the remainder of fiscal year ending October
    31, 2006. If we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party
    developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in
    ways that may be burdensome to us, and materially adversely affect our operating
    results. Failure to commercialize products that require significant investments
    could result in corresponding charges to earnings. See  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Contractual
    Obligations and Contingent Liabilities and Commitments.  

We are subject to product development risks  which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes  in software technologies.   

We rely on third-party software developers for the development of  certain of our titles. Quality third-party developers are continually in high  demand. Software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not  be available to develop software for us in the future. Due to the limited  number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we  exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us  on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. We depend  on third-party software developers and our internal development studios to  develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release  schedules and cost projections. The development cycle for new titles ranges  from twelve to thirty-six months and is expected to increase in connection with  the development of next generation software. After development of a product, it  may take between nine to twelve additional months to

develop the product for  other hardware platforms. If developers experience financial difficulties,  additional costs or unanticipated development delays, we will not be able to  release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. 

Additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development  studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting  software development. Any inability to respond to technological advances and  implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable.   

The interactive entertainment software  industry is highly competitive both for our publishing and distribution  operations.   

We compete for both licenses to properties
    and the sale of interactive entertainment software with Sony, Microsoft and
    Nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for
    its own platforms. Each of these competitors has the financial resources
    to withstand significant price competition and to implement extensive advertising
    campaigns, particularly for television spots. These companies may also increase
    their own software development efforts or focus on developing software products
    for third-party platforms. We also compete with domestic game publishers
    such as Electronic Arts, Activision, THQ, Midway Games and Atari and international
    publishers, such as SEGA, Vivendi, Ubi Soft, SCi Entertainment, Capcom, Konami
    and Namco. As our business is driven by hit titles, which require increasing
    budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial
    resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing
    software games. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical,
    personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets
    for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers
    for commercially 

40 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

desirable properties. Our titles also compete with other forms of  entertainment such as motion pictures, television and audio and video products  featuring similar themes, online computer programs and forms of entertainment  which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. 

Our distribution business also operates in a highly competitive  environment. Competition is based primarily on breadth, availability and  quality of product lines; price; terms and conditions of sale; credit terms and  availability; speed and accuracy of delivery; and effectiveness of sales and  marketing programs. Our competitors include regional, national and  international distributors, as well as hardware manufacturers and software  publishers. We may lose market share or be forced in the future to reduce our  prices in response to our competitors. Our distribution business has been  adversely affected by lower sales volume of software titles, a decrease in  average selling prices of interactive entertainment products as our industry  transitions to next generation technology and increased competition in the  value software market.  

Increased competition for limited shelf  space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our  business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles.   

Retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources, and  competition is intense among an increasing number of newly introduced  interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space  and promotional support. Competition for retail shelf space is expected to  increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to  maintain desirable levels of sales of our titles. Competitors with more  extensive lines and popular titles may have greater bargaining power with  retailers. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve the levels of promotional  support and shelf space that such competitors receive. 

A limited number of customers account for a  significant portion of our sales. The loss of a principal customer could  seriously hurt our business.   

A substantial portion of our product
    sales are made to a limited number of customers, two of which have recently
    merged. Sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 46.1%
    and 41.4% of our net revenues, respectively, for the three months ended January
    31, 2006 and 2005. For the fiscal year ended October 31, 2005, sales of our
    products to Wal-Mart accounted for 14.9% of our net revenues. Our sales are
    made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or
    other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with
    us at any time. Certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing
    mature content. The loss of our relationships with principal customers or
    a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product
    being re-rated to  AO  (age 18  and over), could materially adversely
    affect our business and operating results. Bankruptcies or consolidations
    of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business.  

Returns of our published titles by our  customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect  our operating results.   

We are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with  respect to our customers. Our distribution arrangements with customers  generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm  orders. However, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution  customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations to customers which  include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below  expectations. We accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with  our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated  reserves for returns and price concessions. While we believe that we can  reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and  price concessions for our published titles exceed our reserves, our revenues could  decline. 

Failure to collect our accounts receivable  on a timely basis will negatively impact our cash flow.   

Our sales are typically made on credit. We do not hold any collateral  to secure payment by our customers. As a result, we are subject to credit  risks, particularly in the event that any of our receivables represent sales to  a limited number of retailers or are concentrated in foreign markets. Although  we continually assess the creditworthiness of our customers, which are  principally large, national retailers, if we are unable to collect our accounts  receivable as they become due, it could adversely affect our financial  condition and cash flow. From time to time we purchase insurance from financial  institutions on our receivables, with certain limits, to help protect us from  loss in the event of a customer s bankruptcy or insolvency. 

41 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

We are subject to the rating of our content  by the Entertainment Software Rating Board. Failure to obtain  M  ratings for  certain of our products could negatively impact our sales. We are also subject  to a Federal Trade Commission inquiry and class action complaints.   

The Entertainment Software Rating
    Board, sometimes referred to as the ESRB, requires game publishers to provide
    consumers with information relating to graphic violence, profanity or sexually
    explicit material contained in software titles, and imposes significant penalties
    for noncompliance. Certain countries have also established similar rating
    systems as prerequisites for product sales in those countries. In some instances,
    we may be required to modify our products to comply with the requirements
    of rating systems, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products.
    Sales of certain of our titles have been prohibited in certain countries.
    Our software titles receive a rating of  E  (age 6 and older),  E10+  (age
    10 and older),  T  (age 13 and  over) or  M  (age 17
    and over). Many of our Rockstar titles have received an   M  rating.
    We believe that we comply with rating systems and properly display the ratings
    and content descriptions received for our titles. Although game publishers
    have been able to modify content to satisfy ESRB ratings standards for  M  ratings,
    if we are unable to obtain  M  ratings as a result of changes
    in the ESRB s ratings standards or for other reasons, including the
    adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be
    negatively affected. 

The ESRB requires publishers to conduct pertinent content audit  certifications with respect to certain top selling titles, the objective of  which is to assess what portion, if any, of the games on the market include  undisclosed pertinent content on the disc that undermines the accuracy of the  ESRB rating. This self audit procedure applies to certain current titles and  may be applied to additional titles in the future. In the event that any  content is found in our games in connection with any such self audit or  otherwise that could be determined to be pertinent content that causes a change  to such game s ESRB rating, we may be required to record a reserve for  anticipated product returns and inventory obsolescence which could expose us to  additional litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential  liabilities, and could adversely affect our operating results. 

In July 2005, we were notified that
    the staff of the Federal Trade Commission s Division of Advertising
    Practices is conducting an inquiry into advertising claims made for  Grand
    Theft Auto: San Andreas  following the re-rating of the title by the ESRB
    from an  M  rating to an  AO  rating (18 and over). This
    title was re-rated after an unauthorized third-party made certain content
    accessible that was not intended by us to be accessible in the playable version
    of the title. We have also received requests for documents and information
    relating to such title from certain states, and we are subject to class action
    complaints alleging consumer deception, false advertising and common law
    fraud, class action complaints alleging violations of certain federal securities
    laws and an action brought by the City Attorney of Los Angeles. We cannot
    predict the outcome of these pending matters, which could result in the imposition
    of significant fines and penalties and judgments. Additionally, we have incurred
    and may continue to incur significant legal and other professional fees and
    expenses in connection with pending regulatory matters and litigation, and
    these matters have also diverted management s attention from our business.
    See  Legal Proceedings.  

Our business and products are subject to  increasing potential legislation. The adoption of such proposed legislation  could limit the retail market for our products.    

Several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate  our industry, including a bill, referred to as The Family Entertainment  Protection Act, which was recently introduced into the Senate. Such bill  proposes to prohibit the sale of  M  rated,  AO  rated and  Rating Pending   products to under-17 audiences. If the bill is adopted into law, it may limit  the potential market for our  M  rated products, and adversely affect our  operating results. Proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators  to regulate the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing  violent or sexually explicit material by prohibiting the sale of such products  to under 17 or 18 audiences and proposing penalties for noncompliance and  certain states have adopted such laws which have been enjoined in litigation.  While such legislation has been successfully enjoined by industry and retail  groups, the adoption

into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state  jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the  retail market for our  M  rated titles.  

Content policies adopted by retailers,  consumer opposition and litigation could negatively impact sales of our  products.   

Retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software  containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that  they deem inappropriate for their businesses. If retailers decline to sell our   M  rated products or products containing graphic violence or sexually explicit  material or other objectionable content generally, or if our  M  rated products  are re-rated  AO,  we might be required to significantly change or 

42 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

discontinue particular titles, which in the case of our best selling  Grand Theft Auto  titles could seriously  hurt our business. Consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive  entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit  material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these  areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns.  Additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered  by third parties as a result of video games have been unsuccessful in the  courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time.  See Part II   Item
1.  Legal Proceedings.  

We cannot publish our console titles  without the approval of hardware licensors who are also our competitors.   

We are required to obtain a license from Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo,  who are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their  respective hardware platforms. Our existing platform licenses require that we  obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. As  a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware  platforms, and our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles  and, accordingly, our net revenues from titles for these hardware platforms,  may be limited. If any licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license  agreement at the end of its current term, or if the licensor were to terminate  our license for any reason, we would be unable to publish additional titles for  that licensor s platform. Termination of any such agreements could seriously  hurt our business and prospects. 

Microsoft released its next generation hardware platform into the  marketplace in November 2005, and we expect that each of Sony and Nintendo will  introduce their respective next generation platforms into the marketplace  during calendar year 2006. In order to publish products for a new platform, we  will be required to enter into a license agreement in advance of a platform s  commercial introduction, which gives the platform licensor the opportunity to  set our fee structure. Certain platform licensors have retained the right to  change fee structures for online game play, and each licensor s ability to set  royalty rates makes it difficult for us to forecast our costs. Increased costs  could negatively impact our operating margins. We may be unable to enter into  license agreements for certain next generation platforms on satisfactory terms  or at all. Failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt  our business.  

Sony and Nintendo are the sole manufacturers
    of the titles we publish under license from them. Games for the Xbox and
    Xbox 360 must be manufactured by manufacturers pre-approved by Microsoft.
    Each of these manufacturers also publishes software for its own platforms
    and manufactures titles for all of its other licensees and may choose to
    give priority to its own titles or those of other publishers if it has insufficient
    manufacturing capacity or if there is increased demand for its or other publishers  products.
    In addition, these manufacturers may not have sufficient production capacity
    to satisfy our scheduling requirements during any period of sustained demand.
    If manufacturers do not supply us with finished titles on favorable terms
    without delays, our operations would be materially interrupted, and we would
    be unable to obtain sufficient amounts of our product to sell to our customers.
    If we cannot obtain sufficient product supplies, our net revenues will decline
    and we could incur losses.  

Our quarterly operating results are highly  seasonal and may fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to  decline.   

We have experienced and may continue
    to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. The interactive
    entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during
    the fourth calendar quarter (our fourth and first fiscal quarters), due primarily
    to increased demand for games during the holiday buying season. Our failure
    or inability to introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations
    in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. The
    uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times,
    production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers
    and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our
    products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations.
    In future quarters, our operating results may fall below the expectations
    of securities analysts and investors and the price of our stock could decline
    significantly. 

Our expansion and acquisitions may strain  our operations, and we may not have sufficient financial resources to continue  to expand our operations at previous levels.   

We have expanded through internal growth and acquisitions, which has  placed and may continue to place a significant strain on our management,  administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We have expanded  our publishing operations, significantly increased our advances to licensors  and developers and manufacturing expenditures and enlarged our work force. To  successfully manage this growth, we must continue to implement and improve our  operating systems as well as hire, train and manage a substantial and  increasing number of 

43 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

management, technical, marketing, administrative and other personnel.  We may be unable to effectively manage our expanding and geographically  dispersed operations. 

We have acquired rights to various properties and businesses, and we  intend to continue to pursue opportunities by making selective acquisitions  consistent with our business strategy. We may be unable to successfully  integrate new personnel, properties or businesses into our operations. If we  are unable to successfully integrate personnel, properties or businesses into  our operations, we may incur significant charges.  

Our publishing and distribution activities require significant cash  resources. We may be required to seek debt or equity financing to fund the cost  of continued expansion. The issuance of equity securities would result in  dilution to the interests of our stockholders. 

Our business is subject to risks generally  associated with the entertainment industry, and we may fail to properly assess  consumer tastes and preferences.    

Our business is subject to all of
    the risks generally associated with the entertainment industry and, accordingly,
    our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control,
    including the popularity, price and timing of new hardware platforms being
    released; economic, political and military conditions that adversely affect
    discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability
    and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and
    public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot be predicted.
    In order to plan for acquisition and promotional activities, we must anticipate
    and respond to rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. A decline
    in the popularity of certain game genres or particular platforms could cause
    sales of our titles to decline dramatically. The period of time necessary
    to develop new game titles, obtain approvals of platform licensors and produce
    finished products is unpredictable. During this period, consumer appeal for
    a particular title may decrease, causing product sales to fall short of expectations. 

We may not be able to protect our  proprietary rights or avoid claims that we infringe on the proprietary rights  of others.    

We develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish  and distribute software developed by third parties. We attempt to protect our  software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret  laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and  distribution. Our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying.  Unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our  software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard  as proprietary. Well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in  recent years resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our  software over the Internet. Although we attempt to incorporate protective  measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively impact our  future profitability. 

With advances in technology, game
    content and software graphics are expected to become more realistic. As a
    result, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly
    become the subject of claims that such software infringes the intellectual
    property rights of others. From time to time, we receive notices from third
    parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of
    their proprietary rights. Although we believe that our software and technologies
    and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers
    with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate
    proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary
    rights of others has or may occur. Any claims of infringement, with or without
    merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. Moreover,
    intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue
    the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products,
    which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays.  

Our software is susceptible to errors,  which can harm our financial results and reputation.   

The technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the  development of more complex software products. As software products become more  complex, the risk of undetected errors in products when first introduced increases.  If, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after  shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely  market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenues and damage to our  reputation. 

44 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Gross margins relating to our distribution  business have been historically narrow which increases the impact of variations  in costs on our operating results.   

As a result of intense price competition, our gross margins in our  distribution business have historically been narrow and may continue to be  narrow in the future. Accordingly, slight variations in operating costs and  expenses could result in losses in our distribution business from period to  period. 

We may not be able to adequately adjust our  cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand.   

A significant portion of our selling and general and administrative  expense is comprised of personnel and facilities. In the event of a significant  decline in revenues, we may not be able to exit facilities, reduce personnel,  or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations  or without significant termination and exit costs. Management may not be able  to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate  shortfall in revenues and profit. 

Our distribution business is dependent on  suppliers to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill customer orders  on a timely basis.   

Our ability to obtain particular products in required quantities and to  fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is important to our success. In most  cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. In  certain product categories, limited price concessions or return rights offered  by publishers may have a bearing on the amount of product we may be willing to  purchase. Our industry may experience significant hardware supply shortages  from time to time due to the inability of certain manufacturers to supply  certain products on a timely basis. As a result, we have experienced, and may  in the future continue to experience, short-term hardware inventory shortages.  Further, manufacturers or publishers who currently distribute their products  through us may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their  existing distribution, through other distributors, or directly to retailers. 

We are subject to the risk that our  inventory values may decline and protective terms under supplier arrangements  may not adequately cover the decline in values.   

The interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is  characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products  and evolving industry standards. These changes may cause inventory to decline  substantially in value over time or to become obsolete. We are exposed to  inventory risk in our distribution business to the extent that supplier price  concessions are not available to us on all products or quantities. In addition,  suppliers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill price concession  obligations. 

We are subject to risks and uncertainties  of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign  currencies against the dollar.   

Sales in international markets, primarily in the United Kingdom and  other countries in Europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net  revenues. Sales in international markets accounted for approximately 28.4% and  34.3%, respectively, of our net revenues for the three months ended January 31,  2006 and January 31, 2005. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade,  including increased credit risks; tariffs and duties; fluctuations in foreign  currency exchange rates; shipping delays; and international political,  regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant  impact on our operating results. All of our international sales are made in  local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. While we may use  forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign  currency risk, our results of operations could be adversely affected by  unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. 

The market price for our common stock may  be highly volatile as a result of, among other things, factors affecting the  industry.   

The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be  highly volatile. Factors such as our operating results, announcements by us or  our competitors and various factors affecting the interactive entertainment  software industry may have a significant impact on the market price of our  common stock. 

45 

Back to Index   

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES    (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

We are subject to rapidly evolving  regulation affecting financial reporting, accounting and corporate governance  matters.   

In response to recent corporate events, legislators and government  agencies have focused on the integrity of financial reporting, and regulatory  accounting bodies have recently announced their intention to issue several new  accounting standards, including a recently adopted standard that accounts for  stock options as compensation expense. Additionally, recently enacted  legislation focused on corporate governance, auditing and internal accounting  controls imposes compliance burdens on us, and will require us to continue to  devote substantial financial, technical and personnel resources to address  various compliance issues and audit requirements. 

Item 6.  Exhibits  

46 

Back to Index   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,  the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the  undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  

TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. 

(Registrant) 

Date: March 13, 2006 

By: 

/s/ Paul Eibeler 

Paul Eibeler     Chief Executive Officer and President     (Principal Executive Officer)  

Date: March 13, 2006 

By: 

/s/ Karl H. Winters 

Karl H. Winters     Chief Financial Officer     (Principal Financial Officer) 

<EX-31.1>
 4
 b412197_ex31-1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Prepared and filed by St Ives Burrups 

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Exhibit  31.1  

CERTIFICATION  OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   Section 302 Certification  

I, Paul Eibeler, Chief Executive Officer and President of Take-Two  Interactive Software, Inc, certify that: 

1. 

I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q    for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006 of Take-Two Interactive    Software, Inc.; 

2. 

Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain    any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact    necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under    which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period    covered by this report; 

3. 

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and    other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all    material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash    flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 

The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and    procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and    internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules    13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 

Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,    including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within    those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being    prepared; 

b) 

Designed such internal control over financial    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statement    for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting    principles; 

c) 

Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and    procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such    evaluation; and; 

d) 

Disclosed in this report any change in the    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during    the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal    quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is    reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control    over financial reporting; and; 

5. 

The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over    financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of    the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent    functions): 

a) 

All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses    in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely    affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report    financial information; and 

b) 

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves    management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s    internal control over financial reporting. 

March 13, 2006 

/s/ Paul Eibeler 

Paul Eibeler 

Chief Executive Officer and President 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 b412197_ex31-2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Prepared and filed by St Ives Burrups 

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Exhibit  31.2  

CERTIFICATION  OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   Section 302 Certification  

I, Karl H. Winters, Chief Financial Officer of Take-Two Interactive  Software, Inc, certify that: 

1. 

I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q    for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006 of Take-Two Interactive    Software, Inc.; 

2. 

Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain    any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary    to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such    statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by    this report; 

3. 

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and    other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all    material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash    flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 

The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and    procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and    internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules    13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 

Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,    including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within    those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being    prepared; 

b) 

Designed such internal control over financial    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statement    for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting    principles; 

c) 

Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and    procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such    evaluation; and; 

d) 

Disclosed in this report any change in the    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during    the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal    quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is    reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control    over financial reporting; and; 

5. 

The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over    financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of    the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent    functions): 

a) 

All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses    in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which    are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,    process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves    management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s    internal control over financial reporting. 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 b412197_ex32-1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Prepared and filed by St Ives Burrups 

TAKE-TWO  INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Exhibit  32.1  

CERTIFICATION  PURSUANT TO   18 U. S. C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Take-Two Interactive Software,  Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q for the period ended January 31, 2006 as  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the   Report ), I, Paul Eibeler, as Chief Executive Officer and President of the  Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. SS 1350, as adopted pursuant to SS. 906  of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

(1) 

The Report fully complies with the requirements of    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: and 

(2) 

The information contained in the Report fairly    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of    operations of the Company. 

March 13, 2006 

/s/ Paul Eibeler 

Paul Eibeler 

Chief Executive Officer and President 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has  been provided to Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. and will be retained by  Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and  Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 7
 b412197_ex32-2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Prepared and filed by St Ives Burrups 

TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Exhibit  32.2  

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U. S. C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Take-Two Interactive Software,  Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q for the period ended January 31, 2006 as  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the   Report ), I, Karl H. Winters, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company,  certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. SS 1350, as adopted pursuant to SS. 906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

(1) 

The Report fully complies with the requirements of    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: and 

(2) 

The information contained in the Report fairly    presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of    operations of the Company. 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has  been provided to Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. and will be retained by  Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and  Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.2>

