<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060320_10-Q_edgar_data_718789_0001104659-06-018008_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1632975</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>176734</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>9217</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>942403</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>35</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-018008.hdr.sgml : 20060320
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060320165208
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-018008
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060320
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060320

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SHUFFLE MASTER INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000718789
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES [3990]
		IRS NUMBER:				411448495
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20820
		FILM NUMBER:		06699111

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1106 PALMS AIRPORT DRIVE
		CITY:			LAS VEGAS
		STATE:			NV
		ZIP:			89119
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7028977150

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1106 PALMS AIRPORT DRIVE
		CITY:			LAS VEGAS
		STATE:			NV
		ZIP:			89119

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FF4GxvYkccSzOJQcHjWWvZsSrkNBSVFY5Lxp8is/hJSVHtf2m8vWaZemmf0wxUzQ
 /yz5rHQXzSIBOwhD24waOg==

 0001104659-06-018008.txt : 20060320

10-Q
 1
 a06-7289_210q.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D)

United States 
Securities and Exchange Commission   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-Q   

(Mark One)   

   x                                  QUARTERLY
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 

   For
the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006   

   OR   

   o                                     TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 

   For
the transition period from                           to                              

   Commission
file number: 0-20820   

SHUFFLE MASTER, INC.   

  (Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)  

Minnesota   

41-1448495   

(State or Other
  Jurisdiction  

(IRS Employer  

of Incorporation
  or Organization)  

Identification
  No.)  

Registrant s Telephone
Number, Including Area Code:   (702) 897-7150    

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes  x    No  o  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See
definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act (Check one):  

Large accelerated
  filer  x  

Accelerated filer   o  

Non-accelerated filer   o  

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act).   Yes  o    No  x  

  As of March 15, 2006 there were 34,768,754 shares
of our $.01 par value common stock outstanding.  

SHUFFLE MASTER,
INC. 
QUARTERLY REPORT ON FORM 10-Q FOR THE QUARTER ENDED JANUARY 31, 2006 
TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Page   

PART I FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

Item 1.   

Financial Statements (unaudited):   

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income 
  Three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005   

1  

Condensed Consolidated
  Balance Sheets 
  January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005   

2  

Condensed Consolidated
  Statements of Cash Flows 
  Three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005   

3  

Notes
  to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements   

4  

Item
  2.   

Management s Discussion and
  Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

23  

Item
  3.   

Quantitative and Qualitative
  Disclosures About Market Risk   

45  

Item
  4.   

Controls and Procedures   

45  

PART II OTHER
  INFORMATION    

Item 1.   

Legal Proceedings   

47  

Item 1A.   

Risk Factors   

47  

Item
  2.   

Unregistered Sales of Equity
  Securities and Use of Proceeds   

55  

Item 6.   

Exhibits   

55  

Signatures   

56  

PART I   

     ITEM 1.                    FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 

     SHUFFLE MASTER, INC. 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
   (Unaudited, in thousands, except per share amounts)  

See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements     1  

SHUFFLE MASTER, INC. 
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS 
(Unaudited, in thousands)   

See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements     2  

SHUFFLE MASTER, INC. 
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(Unaudited, in thousands)   

See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements     3  

SHUFFLE MASTER, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Unaudited, in thousands, except unit and per share amounts)   

     1.   DESCRIPTION
OF BUSINESS AND INTERIM BASIS OF PRESENTATION   

     Description of
business.             We
develop, manufacture and market technology-based products for the gaming
industry for placement on the casino floor. Our products primarily relate to
our casino customers  table game activities and are focused on increasing their
profitability, productivity and security. Our Utility Products include a full
line of automatic card shufflers for use with the vast majority of card table
games and chip sorting machines for roulette. In addition, we have acquired or
are developing other products to automatically gather data and to enable casinos
to track table game play, such as our Bloodhound    and
Intelligent Table System  products. Our Entertainment Products include our line
of live proprietary poker, blackjack, baccarat, and pai gow poker-based table
games and our Table Master  product that delivers our popular branded table
game content on a multi-player video platform. In January 2005, we formed
Shuffle Up Productions , Inc.   ( Shuffle Up ) to leverage our
intellectual property and develop live and broadcast tournament events as well
as merchandise based on our extremely popular gaming offerings. In November 2005,
we hosted the finals of our Three Card Poker National Championship  with a
grand prize of $1 million. All of our product lines compete or will compete
with other gaming products, such as slot machines, blackjack tables, keno,
craps, and roulette, for space on the casino floor. 

  We sell, lease or license our products. When we sell
our products, we offer our customers a choice between a sale, a longer-term
sales-type lease or other long-term financing. When we lease or license our
products, we generally negotiate a month-to-month operating lease. We offer our
products worldwide in markets that are significantly regulated. We manufacture
the majority of our products at our headquarters and manufacturing facility in
Las Vegas, Nevada. In addition, we outsource the manufacturing of certain of
our products in the United States, Europe and Asia Pacific.  

     Stargames.             On January 12, 2006, our
wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, Shuffle Master Australasia Pty. Ltd,
initiated the acquisition of the shares of Stargames Limited ( Stargames ) by
purchasing all outstanding share options held by employees and other option
holders at AU$1.55 per share for a total Australian denominated cost of
AU$1,398 (US denominated cost of US$1,047). On January 30, 2006, we
exercised our option agreements with CVC Limited and another subsidiary of CVC
Limited which, collectively, granted us an exclusive option to acquire 17.83%
of the Stargames  shares for AU$1.55 for a total Australian denominated cost of
AU$26,218 (US denominated cost of US$19,809).  These amounts are reflected
as Cost Method Investment as of January 31, 2006. 

  On February 1, 2006, we had substantially
completed our acquisition of Stargames by purchasing 95% of the outstanding
Stargames shares for AU$1.55 per share. The cash for the shares purchase was
being held by the administrative agent managing the shares purchase on our
behalf. Accordingly, the proceeds to be used to purchase the remaining shares
is reflected in cash restricted for acquisition as of January 31, 2006. Effective
March 8, 2006, we had acquired 100% of the outstanding Stargames shares. We
will begin consolidating Stargames  operating results as of our fiscal quarter
ending April 30, 2006. The shares purchase was funded by temporary bridge
financing and we expect to secure permanent financing or an extension of the
bridge financing maturity date prior to the bridge loan s maturity. For
additional information on the bridge financing see Note 3.  

  Stargames is based in Sydney, Australia and develops,
manufactures and distributes a wide range of innovative electronic
entertainment gaming products to worldwide markets. Its product offerings
include Rapid Table Games , Vegas Star     Multi-Terminal Gaming Machines, and a broad
line of traditional  

4     

video slot machines
designed most specifically for the Australian and Asian gaming markets. The
Rapid series of games, which we already distribute in the Americas and the
Caribbean, combines a live dealer with multi-terminal electronic wagering.
Current offerings include Rapid Roulette    , Rapid Sic-Bo    and
Rapid Big Wheel   .
Vegas Star    Multi-Terminal Gaming Machines feature
animated dealers and a selection of public domain table games. The Vegas Star    Nova line utilizes Stargames existing slot
cabinet to extend the number of wagering terminals for a Vegas Star game, while
minimizing the footprint required on the gaming floor. Stargames has
approximately 190 employees including 80 in design and development. 

     Sona Mobile.             In January 2006, we
entered into a strategic alliance with Sona Mobile Holdings Corp ( Sona ) to
license, develop, distribute and market  in-casino  wireless handheld gaming
content and delivery systems to casinos throughout the world. Under the terms
of the agreement, Sona will develop a Shuffle Master-branded wireless gaming
platform for in-casino use that will feature handheld versions of our
proprietary table game content as well as other popular public-domain casino
games. Our and Sona s ability to proceed with such  in-casino  wireless gaming
is subject to approvals by the relevant regulatory and legislative authorities. 

  On January 25, 2006, we completed a private
equity investment and purchased approximately 2,300 shares of Sona s common
stock at the price of $1.30 per share for approximately $3,000. This private
equity investment is pursuant to a stock option agreement between Sona and the
Company dated December 29, 2005. Additionally, as part of our investment
in Sona, we will receive one seat on the Sona Board of Directors. This
investment was accounted for under the equity method of accounting and is
included in Other Assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Accordingly,
we will recognize net income or expense on a pro rata share of Sona s
operations.  

  Upon execution of the license agreement, Sona
delivered to us stock purchase warrants granting us the right to acquire up to
1,200 shares of duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable
shares of common stock, par value $0.01, of Sona. These warrants can be
exercised within 18 months of the date of the warrants. The warrants are at a
25% discount of the closing price of $2.70. Accordingly, the warrants have an
exercise price of $2.03 per share. The warrant shares have not been registered
and are restricted from being sold, pledged, distributed, offered for sale,
transferred or otherwise disposed of in the absence of 1) an effective
registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 or 2) an opinion of
counsel, satisfactory to the Company, that such registrations and qualification
are not required.  

  Our license agreement with Sona has an initial term of
five years. If after the expiration of the term, we choose not to renew the
license agreement, and certain revenue thresholds are not met pursuant to the
agreement, then we shall purchase all of the Sona assets specifically developed
for our purposes, as defined in the agreement.  

     Basis of
presentation.       The condensed consolidated
financial statements of Shuffle Master, Inc. as of January 31, 2006,
and for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, are unaudited,
but, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments necessary for a fair
presentation of the financial results for the interim periods. Our results of
operations for the three months ended January 31, 2006, are not
necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the fiscal year ending
October 31, 2006. These interim statements should be read in conjunction
with the audited financial statements and notes thereto included in our annual
report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005. 

     Recently issued
accounting standards.             In December 2004, the FASB
issued SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in
which an entity obtains employee services in share-based payment transactions. On
April 14, 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) announced
the adoption of a rule that defers the required effective date of SFAS
123R. The SEC rule provides that SFAS 123R is now effective for
registrants as of the beginning of the first fiscal year  

5     

beginning after June 15,
2005, instead of at the beginning of the first quarter after June 15, 2005
(as prescribed by SFAS 123R). We compute compensation expense for stock options
using the Black-Scholes valuation model and utilize the modified prospective
method under SFAS 123R. Additionally, in March 2005, the SEC issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin 107, Share-Based Payment ( SAB 107 ), which provided
interpretative guidance on SFAS 123R valuation methods assumptions used in
valuation models and the interaction of SFAS 123R with existing guidance. SAB
107 also requires the classification of share-based compensation expense to the
same financial statement line item as cash compensation, and therefore, impacts
our cost of lease and royalties, cost of sales and service, related gross
profits and margins, selling, general and administrative expenses and research
and development expenses. Adoption of SFAS 123R in our fiscal quarter ended January 31,
2006 reduced earnings consistent with past pro forma share-based compensation
disclosures. See Note 2 for additional information.  

  In May 2005, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 154 ( SFAS 154 ),  Accounting Changes and Error
Corrections , a replacement of Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 20
and SFAS No. 3. SFAS 154 changes the requirement for the accounting for
and reporting of a change in accounting principles. SFAS 154 applies to all
voluntary changes in accounting principles. It also applies to changes required
by an accounting pronouncement if the pronouncement does not include specific
transition provisions. When a pronouncement includes specific transition
provisions, those provisions should be followed. The provisions of SFAS 154
will be effective for accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2005.  

     2.   SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION   

  On November 1, 2005, we adopted the provisions of
Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard No. 123 (revised 2004) ( SFAS 123R ),  Share-Based Payment , and
SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ( SAB 107 ),  Share-Based Payment ,
requiring the measurement and recognition of all share-based compensation under
the fair value method. We implemented SFAS 123R using the modified prospective
transition method.  

  Accordingly, for the three months ended January 31,
2006, we recognized share-based compensation for all current award grants, if
any, and for the unvested portion of previous award grants based on grant date
fair values. Prior to fiscal 2006, we accounted for share-based awards under
the APB 25 intrinsic value method, which resulted in compensation expense
recorded only for restricted share awards and the modification of outstanding
unvested options. Prior period financial statements have not been adjusted to
reflect fair value of share-based compensation expense under SFAS 123R.  

  With the adoption of SFAS 123R, we changed our method
of expense attribution for fair value share-based compensation from the
accelerated approach to the straight-line approach for all new awards granted. We
anticipate that the straight-line method will provide a more meaningful measure
of costs incurred. Compensation for share-based awards granted prior to the
beginning of fiscal 2006 will continue being recognized under the accelerated
method.  

  We use historical data and projections to estimate
expected employee behaviors related to option exercises and forfeitures. SFAS
123R requires that forfeitures be included as part of the grant date estimate. The
cumulative effect of forfeitures related to previous SFAS 123 pro forma expense
was not material. Prior to adopting SFAS 123R, we reduced share-based
compensation expense when forfeitures occurred.  

  We
estimate the fair value of each stock option award on the grant date using the
Black-Scholes valuation model incorporating the assumptions noted in the
following table. Option valuation models require the input of highly subjective
assumptions, and changes in assumptions used can materially affect the fair
value estimate. Expected volatility and dividends are based on implied and
historical factors related to our common stock. Expected term represents the
estimated weighted-average time between   

6     

grant and employee exercise. Risk free rate is based
on U.S. Treasury rates appropriate for the expected term. No stock options were
issued during the quarter ended January 31, 2006.  

Reported
share-based compensation was classified as follows:  

The
following table compares net income reflecting SFAS 123R share-based
compensation of $928, net of tax, reported in the current quarter compared to
the same prior period s pro forma SFAS 123 fair value compensation of $1,451,
net of tax, and reported APB intrinsic value compensation of $94, net of tax,
consisting of restricted stock amortization.  

7     

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, we presented all
tax benefits resulting from the exercise of stock options as operating cash
inflows in the consolidated statements of cash flows, in accordance with the
provisions of the Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Issue No. 00-15,
 Classification in the Statement of Cash Flows of the Income Tax Benefit
Received by a Company upon Exercise of a Nonqualified Employee Stock Option.   SFAS 123R requires the benefit of tax
deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for those options to
be classified as financing cash inflows rather than operating cash inflows, on
a prospective basis. This amount is shown as  Excess tax benefit from exercise
of stock options  on the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of cash
flows.  

    Restricted stock       During    the three
months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, we issued 0 and 50 shares of
restricted stock, respectively, with an aggregate fair value of $0 and $1,353,
respectively. The total value of each restricted stock grant, based on the fair
market value of the stock on the date of grant, is initially reported as
deferred compensation under shareholders  equity. This deferred compensation is
then amortized to compensation expense over the related vesting period. Net
income, as reported, for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005,
reflects $200 and $94, respectively, net of tax, of amortization of restricted
stock compensation. 

      3.    SHORT TERM FINANCING OF STARGAMES
ACQUISITION   

  On January 25, 2006, we entered into a Credit
Agreement with Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch, as Lender, Deutsche Bank
AG New York Branch, as Administrative Agent, and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.,
as Sole Arranger and Book Manager (the  Credit Agreement ), pursuant to which
we obtained a bridge loan (the  Bridge Loan ) in the amount of $115,000, in
order to finance the acquisition of Stargames. The Bridge Loan will mature on April 24,
2006. For more information regarding the Bridge Loan, see Note 7.  

  Management intends and
believes it has the ability, to refinance the Bridge Loan on a long-term basis.
Financing options currently under consideration, include, but are not limited
to (i) an extension of the existing Credit Agreement, (ii) a senior
secured bank credit facility and (iii) convertible or other debt to be
issued by private placement pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act
of 1933.  

     4.   ACQUISITIONS,
DISPOSITIONS AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS   

     Patent Purchase
Agreement.             On June 13,
2005, we entered into a patent purchase agreement (the  Two-Party Agreement )
with International Game Technology ( IGT ). Based on the terms of the Two-Party
Agreement, IGT paid us a non-refundable initial cash payment of $10,510. If IGT
desires to continue its rights under the Two-Party Agreement, IGT is required
to make a $4,875 payment in June 2007. Under the terms of the Two-Party
Agreement, we sold to IGT an equal ownership interest in our recently acquired
radio frequency identification ( RFID ) patents from ENPAT Inc. ( ENPAT ), U.S.
patent numbers 5,735,742 and 5,651,548, which relate to the use of RFID at
gaming tables and throughout a casino. Previously granted licenses to
Progressive Gaming International Corporation ( PGIC ) and Gaming Partners
International for the use of these RFID patents will remain in effect. In
addition, we sold IGT a fifty-percent ownership interest in our Schubert and
Fishbine patents, U.S. patent numbers 6,313,871, 5,781,647 and 6,532,297, which
relate to the use of optical bet recognition and chip tracking at gaming tables.
As part of the equal ownership in the optical patents, IGT has been added as a
named plaintiff in the MP Games I lawsuit (see Note 13). Further, and as part
of the initial $10,510 payment, IGT reimbursed us for certain legal fees
incurred on the MP Games I lawsuit, for the period prior to May 23, 2005,
totaling $1,471. IGT will bear 50% of the legal fees related to the MP Games I
lawsuit going forward and share in any results. The $1,471 reimbursement in
legal fees was recorded as a reduction of legal expense and the balance of the
proceeds of $9,039 was recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the
patents. Additionally, the Two-Party Agreement contains certain non-compete
provisions related to our ability to market any new optical and/or RFID product
for periods of three and six years, respectively,  

8     

(subject to shortening,
based on certain future events), as discussed in the agreement. As co-owners of
the patents, we share with IGT in future royalties associated with third party
licensing of the purchased RFID patents. Finally, if IGT elects not to make the
$4,875 payment in June 2007, IGT would lose its ownership rights to the
RFID patents, and our non-compete obligations would be substantially
eliminated.  

  In conjunction with the Two-Party Agreement, we
entered into a separate worldwide product integration agreement (the  Three-Party
Agreement ) with IGT and PGIC to create a comprehensive, automated table
management solution using complementary capabilities, technologies, and
resources of the three companies. Under the terms of the Three-Party Agreement,
we will be the provider of automatic card shufflers, card reading intelligent
shoes, card and chip sorters and verifiers. IGT will be the provider of
back-end table gaming management systems, including player tracking, patron
loyalty and rewards, as well as bonusing applications. PGIC will be the
provider of RFID bet recognition, automated gaming chip tracking and payoff
recognition. Each company will cooperatively interface their respective
products into a combined product offering to be known as the Intelligent Table
System ( ITS ). The Three-Party Agreement also provides a framework for the
cooperative development of new technologies and products that build on
automated table management and real-time monitoring of table game player
activity.  

  These agreements do not impact our ability to continue
to separately market and sell our products which are a part of the projects
which are the subject of the Two-Party Agreement and the Three-Party Agreement.  

     Bet the Set  21 .             Effective June 29, 2005,
we acquired certain assets from Magnum Gaming, Inc. The acquired assets,
which have been assigned to our Entertainment Products segment, included the
Bet the Set  21      side bet table
game and related pending patent and trademark applications, game marks, license
and sub-license rights, and other intellectual property, as well as the  Bet
the Set  name. The acquired installed base of the Bet the Set  21  side bet
table game was 205 units as of the acquisition date and was 181 units as of January 31,
2006. 

  The acquisition price included an initial cash payment
of $540 paid in July 2005 and contingent consideration of $560. The
contingent consideration consists of quarterly payments of 22.5% of  adjusted
gross revenues,  as defined, attributed to the Bet the Set  21  side bet table
game up to a maximum of $560. The balance at January 31, 2006, was $549.  

     Spur Gaming Systems.             Effective
August 1, 2005, we purchased certain assets from MultiShift, Inc.,
dba Spur Gaming Systems ( SPUR ), a privately held corporation that develops
and distributes table games and related products to casinos throughout North
America. As a result of the acquisition, we now own the underlying patents and
trademarks for five additional proprietary games including Jackpot Pai Gow
Poker  and Progressive Jackpot Pai Gow Poker  as well as a multishift drop box.
The acquired installed base of games was 53 units as of the acquisition date
and 47 units as of January 31, 2006. 

  The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase
method of accounting. The acquisition price included a cash payment of $2,778
paid in August 2005, and consulting fees payable to SPUR, pursuant to a
separate consulting agreement, in the amount of $25 per year, commencing on the
closing date (August 1, 2005), and continuing for a period of five years,
for a maximum of $125. Additionally, per the terms of the asset acquisition
agreement by and among Shuffle Master, Inc., and SPUR ( Spur Agreement ),
contingent royalty payments are due quarterly equal to 20% of any adjusted
gross revenues, defined as any revenues or amount received by Shuffle Master, Inc.,
for placements of the Casino Cribbage Game and the Break Insurance Game. No
such games were placed into service as of January 31, 2006.  

     VIP Gaming
Solutions.             In August 2005,
we acquired VIP, a privately held corporation with headquarters located in
Sydney, Australia. As a result of the acquisition, we acquired a broader direct
sales presence within the Asia-Pacific region and expanded our product
offerings to include a variety of table game related equipment and accessories. 

9     

The
acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and,
accordingly, the acquired assets and liabilities assumed were recorded at their
estimated fair values. The cash purchase price of $404 includes the initial
payment of $308 and other direct costs in the amount of $96. The total purchase
price was comprised of the following:  

The
preliminary allocation of the purchase price, which is subject to change based
on a final valuation of the intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed,
is comprised of the following:  

Intangible assets relate to a non-compete provision
that is effective for a period of twenty-four months after the cessation of an
employment agreement between the Company and a key employee at VIP. Under the
terms of such employment agreement, we do not expect to begin amortizing the
value of this non-compete provision until the years 2011 and 2012.  

  Accrued liabilities were comprised of vendor-related
obligations, a deferred tax obligation and a loan to shareholder. Other current
assets consist of a tax credit claim.  

     Discontinued slot
operations.       In December 2003, our board
of directors approved and we committed to a plan to divest our North America
slot products operations and assets, based on our determination that this
product line was no longer a strategic fit with our refocused core business strategy
of providing products and services for the table game area of casinos.  Revenues and costs associated with our slot
products are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. In January 2004,
we entered into agreements pursuant to which we sold substantially all of our
slot products assets to IGT. 

  Discontinued
operations consisted of the following:  

10     

5.      ACCOUNTS
RECEIVABLE, SALES-TYPE LEASES AND NOTES RECEIVABLE, INVENTORIES, AND LEASED
PRODUCTS   

We maintain provisions for bad debts for estimated
credit losses that result from the inability of our customers to make required
payments. The provisions for bad debts are estimated based on historical
experience and specific customer collection issues.  

11  

Sales-type
leases and other notes receivables related to our financing for sales of our
intellectual property products are interest-bearing at market interest rates,
require monthly installment payments over periods ranging generally from 30 to
60 months and contain bargain purchase options.  

6.                     INTANGIBLE
ASSETS AND GOODWILL 

     Amortized intangible assets.             Substantially all of our
recorded intangible assets are subject to amortization. Amortization expense
was $1,639 for the three months ended January 31, 2006. Amortized
intangible assets are comprised of the following: 

Trademark.             Intangibles with an
indefinite life consisting of the CARD trademark are not amortized. Changes in
the carrying amount of our unamortized intangibles for the three months ended January 31,
2006, are as follows: 

12     

Goodwill.       Changes
in the carrying amount of goodwill for the three months ended January 31,
2006, are as follows: 

All of our goodwill
originated from the acquisitions of foreign subsidiaries. For foreign income
tax purposes, goodwill is amortized using the straight-line method and deducted
over its statutory fifteen year life.  

   7.                     NOTES
PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM LIABILITIES 

  Notes
payable and long-term liabilities are summarized as follows:  

Contingent
convertible senior notes.             In
April 2004, we issued $150,000 of contingent convertible senior notes due
2024 (the  Notes ) through a private placement under Rule 144A of the
Securities Act of 1933. The Notes are unsecured and bear interest at a fixed
rate of 1.25% per annum. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on April 15
and October 15 of each year, beginning October 15, 2004. 

  Holders may convert any outstanding Notes into cash
and shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price per share of
$28.07. This represents a conversion rate of approximately 35.6210 shares of
common stock per $1,000 in principal amount of Notes. The value of the cash and
shares of our common stock, if any, to be received by a holder converting
$1,000 principal amount of the Notes will be determined based on the applicable
Conversion Rate, Conversion Value, Principal Return, and other factors, each as
defined in the indenture covering these Notes.  

  The Notes are
convertible, at the holders  option, into cash and shares of our common stock,
under any of the following circumstances:  

             during
any fiscal quarter commencing after the date of original issuance of the Notes,
if the closing sale price of our common stock over a specified number of
trading days during the previous quarter is more than 120% of the conversion
price of the Notes on the last trading day of the previous quarter; 

             if
we have called the Notes for redemption and the redemption has not yet
occurred; 

             during
the five trading day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day
period in which the trading price of the Notes per $1,000 principal amount for
each day of such period was less than 95% of the product of the closing sale
price of our common stock on such day multiplied  

13     

by the number of shares of
our common stock issuable upon conversion of $1,000 in principal amount of the
Notes, provided that, if on the date of any conversion pursuant to this trading
price condition, our common stock price on such date is greater than the
conversion price but less than 120% of the conversion price, then the holder
will be entitled to receive Conversion Value (as defined in the indenture
covering these Notes) equal to the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued
and unpaid interest including liquidated damages, if any; or  

             upon
the occurrence of specified corporate transactions. 

  We may call some or all of the Notes at any time on or
after April 21, 2009, at a redemption price, payable in cash, of 100% of
the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest and including
liquidated damages, if any, up to but not including the date of redemption. In
addition, the holders may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their
Notes on April 15, 2009, 2014 and 2019, at 100% of the principal amount of
the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest and including liquidated damages,
if any, up to but not including the date of repurchase, payable in cash. Upon a
change in control, as defined in the indenture governing the Notes, holders may
require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes, payable in cash equal
to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest
and liquidated damages, if any, up to but not including the date of repurchase.  

     Bridge loan.             On January 25, 2006, we
entered into a Credit Agreement with Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch, as
a Lender, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as Administrative Agent, and
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as Sole Arranger and Book Manager (the  Credit Agreement ),
pursuant to which we obtained a bridge loan (the  Bridge Loan ) in the amount
of $115,000, in order to finance the acquisition of Stargames. The Bridge Loan
will mature on April 24, 2006. The interest rate under the Credit
Agreement is based on the sum of the relevant Base Rate or Eurodollar Rate plus
the Applicable Margin, as defined, each as in effect from time to time. The
Bridge Loan is unsecured. The obligations under the Bridge Loan are guaranteed
by each wholly-owned domestic subsidiary of the Company that is not an
immaterial subsidiary and each wholly-owned domestic subsidiary that is not an
immaterial subsidiary of the Company established, created or acquired after January 25,
2006, if any. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative
covenants for transactions of this nature, including but not limited to
restrictions and limitations on the following: 

             Incurrence
of indebtedness; 

             Granting
or incurrence of liens; 

             Pay
dividends and make other distributions in respect of our equity securities; 

             Acquire
assets and make investments; 

             Sales
of assets; 

             Transactions
with affiliates; 

             Mergers;
and 

             Agreements
to restrict dividends and other payments from subsidiaries. 

  As of March 20, 2006, we are in compliance with all
of the affirmative and negative covenants pursuant to the Credit Agreement. Additional
information on these covenants may be found in Section 7 and Section 8
of the Credit Agreement included in our Current Report on Form 8-K,
dated January 25, 2006.  

  Total debt issuance costs incurred with the issuance
of long-term debt are capitalized and amortized as interest expense using the
effective interest method. Total amortization of debt issuance costs were $258
and $242 for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Unamortized debt issuance   

14     

costs of $3,350 as of January 31,
2006, are included in other assets on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.  

     BTI liabilities.       In
connection with our acquisition of certain assets from BTI, we recorded an
initial estimated liability of $7,616 for contingent installment payments
computed as the excess fair value of the acquired assets over the fixed
installments and other direct costs. Beginning November 2004, we pay
monthly note installments based on a percentage of certain revenue from BTI
games for a period of up to ten years, not to exceed $12,000. The balance of
this liability as of January 31, 2006, was $5,901. 

     ENPAT note payable.             In December 2004, we
purchased two RFID technology patents from ENPAT for $12,500. The purchase
price was comprised of an initial payment of $2,400 followed by a $1,100
payment in January 2005 and non-interest bearing annual installments
through December 2007. The balance as of January 31, 2006, of $5,604
represents the discounted present value of the future payments, including
imputed interest of approximately $47. The remaining principal and interest
payments of $3,000 each are due in December 2006 and 2007. 

     Bet the Set  21 
contingent consideration.             In
connection with our acquisition of Bet the Set  21 , we recorded contingent
consideration of $560. The contingent consideration consists of quarterly
payments of 22.5% of  adjusted gross revenues,  as defined, attributed to the
Bet the Set  21  side bet table games up to a maximum of $560. The balance of
this liability as of January 31, 2005, was $549. 

     VIP note payable.             In connection with our
acquisition of VIP in August 2005, we recorded a note payable with annual
installments due each July through 2010. The balance of this liability as
of January 31, 2005 was $322. 

   8.                     SHAREHOLDERS 
EQUITY 

  The
following table reconciles the changes in our shareholders  equity during the
three months ended January 31, 2006:  

Stock splits.             In December 2004, our
board of directors approved a three-for-two common stock split, with new shares
distributed in the form of a dividend on January 14, 2005, to shareholders
of record on January 3, 2005 (the  January 2005 Split ). Share and
per share amounts have been adjusted for all periods  

15     

presented herein to
reflect the January 2005 Split. In connection with the January 2005
Split, we paid cash of $68 for fractional shares and reclassified to common
stock the par value of $0.01 per newly issued share.  

   In      March 2004, our board of directors approved a
three-for-two common stock split, with new shares distributed in the form of a
dividend on April 16, 2004, to shareholders of record on April 5,
2004 (the  April 2004 Split ). Share and per share amounts have been adjusted
for all periods presented herein to reflect the April 2004 Split. In
connection with the April 2004 Split, we paid cash of $138 for fractional
shares and reclassified to common stock the par value of $0.01 per newly issued
share.  

     Common stock repurchases.       Our
board of directors periodically authorizes us to repurchase shares of our
common stock. Under our existing board authorizations, during the three months
ended January 31, 2006, no shares of our common stock were repurchased
compared to 150 shares of our common stock repurchased for a total cost of
$4,350 at an average price of $29.00 for the same prior year period. We did not
have any common stock repurchases during the quarter ended January 31, 2006 in
anticipation of closing the Stargames acquisition and as a result of the delay
in filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005. As
of January 31, 2006, $8,831 remained outstanding under our board
authorizations. We cancel shares that we repurchase. 

     Tax benefit from
stock option exercises.       During the three
months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, we realized income tax benefits of
$618 and $3,440, respectively, related to deductions for employee stock option
exercises. These tax benefits, which reduced income taxes payable and
additional paid-in capital by an equal amount, had no affect on our provision
for income taxes. 

     Preferred stock purchase rights.       In
February 2005, we amended our Shareholder Rights Agreement, dated June 26,
1998 (the  Rights Agreement ). As more fully described therein, and subject to
the terms thereof, the Rights Agreement, as amended, generally gives holders of
our common stock rights to acquire shares of our preferred stock upon the
occurrence of specified events. The amendment (a) eliminated all
requirements in the Rights Agreement that actions, approvals and determinations
to be taken or made by our board of directors be taken or made by a majority of
the  Continuing Directors,  and (b) reflects the change of the name of our
stock transfer agent to Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. The amendment eliminated from
the Rights Agreement those provisions commonly referred to as  dead hand 
provisions. 

   9.                     EARNINGS
PER SHARE 

  Shares
used to compute basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations
are as follows:   

16  

We account for our
contingent convertible notes in accordance with EITF 04-08,  The Effect of
Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings Per Share  which requires us
to include the dilutive effect of our outstanding Notes shares in our diluted
earnings per share calculation, regardless of whether the market price trigger
or other contingent conversion feature has been met. Because our Notes include
a mandatory cash settlement feature for the principal payment, we applied the
treasury stock method. This method results in incremental dilutive shares when
the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the
initial conversion price per share of $28.07. For the three months ended January 31,
2006, the average fair value of our common stock did not exceed $28.07,
resulting in no additional dilutive shares. The average fair value of our
common stock did exceed the initial conversion price in the prior year period,
and therefore had an effect on the reported diluted earnings per share in the
prior year period.  

   10.              EQUITY
INCENTIVE PLANS 

     Restricted stock.             During the three months ended
January 31, 2006 and 2005, we issued 0 and 50 shares of restricted stock,
respectively, with an aggregate fair value of $0 and $1,353, respectively. The
total value of each restricted stock grant, based on the fair market value of
the stock on the date of grant, is initially reported as deferred compensation
under shareholders  equity. This deferred compensation is then amortized to
compensation expense over the related vesting period. Net income, as reported,
for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, reflects $200 and
$94, respectively, net of tax, of amortization of restricted stock
compensation. 

     Stock options.             During the three months ended
January 31, 2006, our stock option activity and weighted average exercise
prices were as follows: 

11.              OTHER
INCOME (EXPENSE) 

  Other
income (expense) is comprised of the following:   

Interest income increased
primarily as a result of a greater investment in interest bearing sales-type
leases and notes receivable as of January 31, 2006. For the three months
ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, interest income related to sales-type
leases and notes receivable was $291 and $192, respectively.  

17     

Interest expense is
primarily related to the $150,000 of contingent convertible senior notes due in
April 2024 (the  Notes ) and the  $115,000 Bridge Loan due April 2006. 

  During the three months
ended January 31, 2006, we experienced foreign currency losses related to
unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  

   12.              OPERATING
SEGMENTS 

  We have two reportable
segments which are classified as continuing operations, Utility Products and
Entertainment Products. Utility Products includes our Shufflers, Chip Sorting
Machines and ITS product lines. Entertainment Products includes our Proprietary
Table Games, Table Master products and Shuffle Up. Each segment s activities
include the design, development, acquisition, manufacture, marketing,
distribution, installation and servicing of its product lines. All periods
presented have been reclassified to conform to our current reportable segments.  

  Segment revenues include
sale, lease or licensing of products within each reportable segment. Segment
operating income includes revenues and expenses directly and indirectly
associated with the product lines included in each segment. Direct expenses
primarily include depreciation of leased assets, amortization of intangible
assets, cost of products sold, shipping, installation, commissions, product
approval costs, research and development and product related litigation. Indirect
expenses include an activity-based allocation of other general product-related
costs, the most significant of which are service and selling expenses,
including stock option expense, and manufacturing overhead. Corporate general
and administrative expenses are not allocated to segments. Capital expenditures
include amounts reported in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows
for purchases of leased products, property and equipment, and intangible assets
plus the financed or non-cash portion of these purchases which is excluded from
cash flows.  

  The following
provides financial information concerning our reportable segments of our
continuing operations:  

18     

13.              COMMITMENTS
AND CONTINGENCIES 

     Purchase commitments.       From
time to time, we enter into commitments with our vendors to purchase inventory
at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities. As of January 31, 2006, our
significant inventory purchase commitments totaled $7,642 which are primarily
related to our Table Master products, one2six shufflers, and the Easy Chipper
roulette chip sorter machine. 

     Employment agreements.       We
have entered into employment contracts with our Corporate Officers and certain
other key employees with durations ranging typically from one to three years. Significant
contract provisions include minimum annual base salaries, healthcare benefits,
bonus compensation if performance measures are achieved, and non-compete
provisions. These contracts are primarily  at will  employment agreements,
under which the employee or we may terminate employment. If we terminate any of
these employees without cause, then we are obligated to pay the employee
severance benefits as specified in their individual contract. As of January 31,
2006, minimum aggregate severance benefits totaled $5,018. 

     Legal proceedings.       Our
current material litigation and our current assessments are described below. Litigation
is inherently unpredictable. Our assessment of each matter may change based on
future unknown or unexpected events. Subject to the foregoing, we believe we
will prevail in each of the material litigation actions described below. If any
litigation were to have an adverse result that we did not expect, there could
be a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. We
believe costs associated with litigation will not have a material impact on our
financial position or liquidity, but may be material to the results of
operations in any given period. We assume no obligation to update the status of
pending litigation, except as may be required by applicable law, statute or
regulation. 

  Certain of our litigation
relate to products or patents associated with our discontinued slot products
operations. Legal expenses and settlement proceeds or payments associated with
these matters, if any, are included in the Discontinued Operations caption on
our condensed consolidated statements of income.  

   Continuing operations    

   VendingData   I     On
July 12, 2005, we settled our litigation (known as VendingData I) with
VendingData Corporation ( VendingData ) over VendingData s Random Ejection
shuffler. Under the terms of the settlement, VendingData was required to pay us
$800, one-half of which was received on July 14, 2005, and the other half
of which is payable in May 2006. VendingData signed a Confession of
Judgment related to the second payment of $400 which was filed and entered by
the Court. We granted VendingData a conditional Covenant Not to Sue concerning
our U.S. patents 6,028,258 and 6,325,373 (except for claims 6 and 7 of the
6,325,373 patent), which were the patents at issue in the VendingData I
litigation. Each party has completely and fully released the other for any acts
or omissions committed prior to July 12, 2005, except that, these releases
have no effect with respect to our patent infringement claims against
VendingData s PokerOne  shuffler in the VendingData II litigation. The
VendingData I settlement does not restrict either party s ability to bring new
actions for any wrongful acts or acts of infringement committed after July 12,
2005. 

   VendingData   II        In    October 2004,
we filed a second patent infringement lawsuit against VendingData Corporation ( VendingData
II ). This second suit alleges that the use, importation and offering for sale
of VendingData s PokerOne  shuffler infringes another patent owned by us (a
different patent than the patents that were the subject of the VendingData I
case mentioned above). VendingData II was filed in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Nevada (the  Court ) in Las Vegas, Nevada. The complaint seeks
an unspecified amount of damages against VendingData and a preliminary and
permanent injunction against VendingData s infringing conduct. VendingData has
denied infringement and has also filed a counterclaim for a declaratory
judgment of non-infringement. 

  On November 29, 2004,
the Court granted our motion for a preliminary injunction (the  Injunction ).
The Injunction became effective upon our posting of a $3,000 cash security with
the Court on   

19     

November 30,
2004. This security deposit is included in other assets on our consolidated
balance sheet and included in cash flows from investing activities in our
consolidated statement of cash flows. On December 17, 2004, the Court
denied VendingData s two emergency motions to modify the Injunction.  

  In March 2005, the
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the  Federal Circuit ) stayed the
Injunction based on a technical defect in the Court s process in granting the
Injunction, and not on its merits. In May 2005, the Court held a Markman
hearing for construction of the claims. On September 26, 2005, U.S. Magistrate
Judge Lawrence R. Leavitt for the District of Nevada issued his Claim
Construction Report and Recommendation in the Markman hearing concerning
VendingData s PokerOne  shuffler. The Magistrate Judge s findings were limited
to his interpretation of certain words in the patent claim asserted by us, and
he agreed with the interpretation put forth by VendingData. The Magistrate
Judge s Recommendation is not a determination of whether the PokerOne  infringes
the asserted patent, nor does it speak to the validity of our claims. We have
filed a written objection with the Court to the Magistrate Judge s ruling. This
objection is now pending.  

  On December 27, 2005,
the Federal Circuit vacated the Injunction and ordered the Court to perform a
more complete claim construction analysis in order to deal with any future
motions on whether or not to reinstate the Injunction. Two of the three judges
on the Federal Circuit panel stated that they did not believe that infringement
exists under VendingData s claim construction. We continue to believe that
infringement exists under either our claim construction or VendingData s claim
construction, and we continue to believe that our claim construction is the
proper one. The Federal Circuit did not rule on whether our claim
construction or VendingData s claim construction is the proper one. There can
be no guarantee that the Court or, upon any further appeal, the Federal Circuit
will agree with our claim construction. We intend to continue to enforce our
intellectual property rights by moving the litigation forward to resolve our
patent infringement claim.  

    TCS    On
July 15, 2005, we executed a settlement agreement with Technical Casino
Supplies, Ltd. ( TCS ). As part of the settlement agreement, each party has
completely and fully released the other for any acts or omissions committed
prior to June 27, 2005. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we
paid TCS a one-time payment of $215 in settlement of disputed invoices and
commissions relating to the previously terminated International Distribution
Agreement with TCS (the  TCS Agreement ). The TCS Agreement had been terminated
by the Arbitrator on December 22, 2004. 

    GEI    In
July 2004, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Gaming
Entertainment, Inc. ( GEI ) in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Nevada, in Las Vegas, Nevada. The lawsuit alleges that GEI s 3-5-7 Poker  game
infringes one of our Three Card Poker  patents. We are seeking a permanent
injunction and an as yet undetermined amount of damages against GEI. GEI has
answered our complaint, denying infringement, and also seeking a ruling that
the patent is invalid. The case is presently in the discovery phase. In November 2005,
the Court held a Markman hearing for construction of the claims. The Markman
decision is now pending. 

    Awada        On April 25th and April 26th, 2005, our
rescission trial was held in the District Court in Clark County, Nevada in the
Awada and Gaming Entertainment, Inc. case against us and our CEO, Mark
Yoseloff. At the conclusion of the trial, the court granted our rescission
motion, ordering that the subject contract, called the  Game Option Agreement ,
be rescinded and/or void. On May 18, 2005, the Court entered Findings of
Fact/Conclusions of Law confirming the Court s rescission ruling. Among the
findings, the Court found that the actions of plaintiffs Yehia Awada and Gaming
Entertainment, Inc. demonstrated that the plaintiffs never had any
intention of conveying to us the exclusive license to the 3-Way Action game, as
they had agreed and were required to do under the Game Option Agreement. The
Court further found that we had established by a preponderance of the evidence
that the plaintiffs had materially failed to perform their obligations under
the Game Option Agreement and that we were entitled to the remedy of rescission.
On May 5, 2005, the Court ruled on the parties  damages requests in
connection with the case and as required under Nevada law. Plaintiffs were
seeking approximately $13,000 in damages. The Court  

20     

ordered that the
total damages under Nevada law due to the successful rescission of the Game
Option Agreement was $130, including all interest. We had fully reserved for
this amount. On June 1, 2005, the Court dismissed with prejudice all other
claims asserted by plaintiffs.  

  Plaintiffs have appealed
the Court s order granting the rescission of the  Game Option Agreement  to the
Nevada Supreme Court.  

    Awada II       On     September 12,
2005, we filed a new lawsuit against defendants Awada and Gaming Entertainment, Inc.
The lawsuit alleges that our Four Card Poker  game is being infringed and
illegally copied by the defendants  Play Four Poker game. The lawsuit claims
that the defendants are violating the federal Lanham Act by infringing the
trademark/trade dress of our Four Card Poker  game layout, and that the
defendants are committing acts of unfair competition, interference with
prospective business advantage and conversion. Our action seeks appropriate
injunctive relief against defendants  Play Four Poker game layout, as well as
unspecified monetary damages. On September 15, 2005, the U.S. District
Court for the District of Nevada issued a temporary restraining order
prohibiting the defendants from displaying or advertising the infringing
layout. 

  On or about December 6,
2005, the defendants answered our complaint and denied all liability. They also
filed counterclaims for alleged patent misuse, anti-trust violations based on
said patent misuse, patent invalidity, unfair competition, unfair trade
practices, and other related claims. The counterclaims seek an unspecified
amount of damages, disgorgement of our profits as a result of our alleged
unfair trade practices, and preliminary and permanent injunctive relief against
our alleged unfair trade practices. The defendants filed these counterclaims
against both us and our CEO. We completely and uncategorically deny the
defendants  counterclaims, and intend to vigorously oppose them. On January 9,
2006, we filed a motion to dismiss all of defendants  counterclaims. On January 24,
2006, defendants filed an opposition to our motion to dismiss. The Court set a
hearing date of March 27, 2006 to hear our motion to dismiss, as well as
our motion for a preliminary injunction.  

    MP Games I        In July 2004, we filed a complaint against MP Games
LLC and certain other defendants in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Nevada, in Las Vegas, Nevada. The complaint alleges that the defendants  MP21
System infringes two patents owned by us. The complaint also alleges
misappropriation of trade secrets against certain, but not all, of the
defendants, and also includes claims for correction of named inventor on
certain related patents held in the name of certain of the defendants. We are
seeking a permanent injunction and an as yet undetermined amount of damages
against all of the defendants. The defendants have answered our complaint
denying infringement and also claiming that the two patents are invalid. The
defendants have also counterclaimed against us, claiming that we infringe
several of their patents, and that we misappropriated certain of their trade
secrets, and are seeking damages against us. We deny any infringement,
misappropriation or wrongdoing. In May 2005, the Court dismissed
defendants  breach of contract counterclaim. The case is currently in the
discovery phase. In the recent Two-Party Agreement transaction with IGT, IGT
purchased a 50% ownership interest in the two patents which are the subject of
this lawsuit, and IGT has been added as a named plaintiff in this lawsuit. In June 2005,
the defendants filed the same, previously dismissed, breach of contract claim,
and several other related claims as a new lawsuit in the U.S. District Court
for the Western District of Washington, as explained below. On December 20,
2005, the Court entered its Markman order, construing the disputed claims in
the various patents-in-suit. The Court ruled in our favor on a number of
disputed terms and in the defendants  favor on others. Some or all of these
rulings may be overturned on appeal. Litigation will continue on all claims in
the case. 

    MP Games II        In June 2005, MP Games LLC, Alliance
Gaming and Bally Gaming, which are among the defendants in MP Games I, filed a
complaint against us in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Washington, in Seattle, Washington. The complaint includes the breach of
contract claim which had been dismissed from the MP Games Nevada litigation,
discussed above, as well as related claims of misappropriation of trade secrets
and patent infringement. The complaint seeks a permanent injunction  

21     

against our MD2
shuffler with card recognition, an unspecified amount of damages and other
relief. We deny the plaintiffs  allegations. We filed a motion to dismiss
and/or stay some of the plaintiffs  allegations. On February 22, 2006, the
Court denied our motion to dismiss the trade secret claim and granted our
motion to stay the trade secrets and breach of contract claims pending further
order of the Court. A scheduling conference was set for March 21, 2006. We
will vigorously contest and deny any liability.  

   Discontinued operations    

    IGCA       In    April 2001,
we were sued by Innovative Gaming Corporation of America ( IGCA ), a Minnesota
corporation. The suit was filed in the Second Judicial District Court of the
State of Nevada, in Washoe County, Nevada. The defendants are us and Joseph J.
Lahti, our former Chairman. The complaint alleges breach of contract,
negligence, misrepresentation and related theories of liability, all relating
to a confidentiality agreement with respect to what the plaintiff claims to be
its intellectual property. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of
damages. We have answered the complaint by denying any liability and raising
various affirmative defenses. We deny the plaintiff s claims. In 2004, IGCA
filed for bankruptcy and a trustee was appointed. In December 2005, we
entered into a settlement agreement with the trustee to settle all of IGCA s
claims for $150. On January 25, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court approved the
settlement agreement. A written order has been issued and the time for appeal,
if any, has not yet run. 

  In the ordinary course of
conducting our business, we are, from time to time, involved in other
litigation, administrative proceedings and regulatory government investigations.
We believe that the final disposition of any of these or other matters will not
have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations
or liquidity.  

   14.              SUBSEQUENT
EVENTS 

     Stargames.             On February 1, 2006, we
had substantially completed our acquisition of Stargames by purchasing 95% of
the outstanding Stargames shares for AU$1.55 per share. The cash for the shares
purchase was being held by the administrative agent managing the shares purchase
on our behalf. Accordingly, the proceeds to be used to purchase the remaining
shares is reflected in cash restricted for acquisition as of January 31,
2006. Effective March 8, 2006, we had acquired 100% of the outstanding
Stargames shares. We will begin consolidating Stargames  operating results as
of our fiscal quarter ending April 30, 2006. The shares purchase was
funded by temporary bridge financing and we expect to secure permanent
financing or an extension of the bridge financing maturity date prior to the
bridge loan s maturity. For additional information on the bridge financing see
Note 3. 

  Stargames is based in
Sydney, Australia and develops, manufactures and distributes a wide range of
innovative electronic entertainment gaming products to worldwide markets. Its
product offerings include Rapid Table Games, Vegas Star Multi-Terminal Gaming
Machines, and a broad line of traditional video slot machines designed most
specifically for the Australian and Asian gaming markets. The Rapid series of
games, which we already distribute in the Americas and the Caribbean, combines
a live dealer with multi-terminal electronic wagering. Current offerings
include Rapid Roulette, Rapid Sic-Bo and Rapid Big Wheel. Vegas Star
Multi-Terminal Gaming Machines feature animated dealers and a selection of
public domain table games. The Vegas Star  Nova line utilizes Stargames
existing slot cabinet to extend the number of wagering terminals for a Vegas
Star game, while minimizing the footprint required on the gaming floor. Stargames
has approximately 190 employees including 80 in design and development.  

22  

ITEM 2.                    MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

     BUSINESS OVERVIEW 
(In thousands, except units)   

  We develop, manufacture and market technology-based
products for the gaming industry for placement on the casino floor. Our
products primarily relate to our casino customers  table game activities and
are focused on increasing their profitability, productivity and security. Our
Utility Products include a full line of automatic card shufflers for use with
the vast majority of card table games and chip sorting machines for roulette.
In addition, we have acquired or are developing other products to automatically
gather data and to enable casinos to track table game play, such as our
Bloodhound     and Intelligent Table System  products. Our
Entertainment Products include our line of live proprietary poker, blackjack,
baccarat, and pai gow poker-based table games and our Table Master  product
that delivers our popular branded table game content on a multi-player video
platform. In January 2005, we formed Shuffle Up Productions TM , Inc.   ( Shuffle
Up ) to leverage our intellectual property and develop live and
broadcast tournament events as well as merchandise based on our extremely
popular gaming offerings. In November 2005, we hosted the finals of our
Three Card Poker National Championship TM  with a grand prize of $1 million. All of our
product lines compete or will compete with other gaming products, such as slot
machines, blackjack tables, keno, craps, and roulette, for space on the casino
floor. 

  We sell, lease or license our products. When we sell
our products, we offer our customers a choice between a sale, a longer-term
sales-type lease or other long-term financing. When we lease or license our
products, we generally negotiate a month-to-month operating lease. We offer our
products worldwide in markets that are significantly regulated. We manufacture
the majority of our products at our headquarters and manufacturing facility in
Las Vegas, Nevada. In addition, we outsource the manufacturing of certain of
our products in the United States, Europe and Asia Pacific.  

  Our internet address is www.shufflemaster.com. Through
the  Investor Relations  page on our internet website, our annual report
on Form 10-K, proxy statement, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge, as soon as reasonably
practical after such information has been filed or furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission. Additional information regarding Shuffle Up can be
accessed at www.shuffleupproductions.com.  

  Management s Discussion
and Analysis contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on
current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and
uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors
discussed in  Forward Looking Statements  elsewhere in this quarterly report.  

     SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION   

  On November 1, 2005,
we adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB )
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004) ( SFAS
123R ),  Share-Based Payment , and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ( SAB
107 ),  Share-Based Payment , requiring the measurement and recognition of all
share-based compensation under the fair value method. Under the fair value
recognition provisions of this statement, share-based compensation cost is
estimated at the grant date based on the value of the award and is recognized
as expense over the vesting period. Option valuation models require the input
of highly subjective assumptions, and changes in the assumptions used can
materially affect the fair value estimate. Additionally, judgment is required
in estimating stock price volatility, expected dividends, and expected term for
options that remain outstanding. Actual results, and future estimates, may
differ substantially from our current estimates. See Note 2 of our condensed
consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the
adoption of SFAS 123R.  

23     

ACQUISITIONS,
DISPOSITIONS AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS   

     Patent Purchase
Agreement.             On June 13,
2005, we entered into a patent purchase agreement (the  Two-Party Agreement )
with International Game Technology ( IGT ). Based on the terms of the Two-Party
Agreement, IGT paid us a non-refundable initial cash payment of $10,510. If IGT
desires to continue its rights under the Two-Party Agreement, IGT is required
to make a $4,875 payment in June 2007. Under the terms of the Two-Party
Agreement, we sold to IGT an equal ownership interest in our recently acquired
radio frequency identification ( RFID ) patents from ENPAT Inc. ( ENPAT ), U.S.
patent numbers 5,735,742 and 5,651,548, which relate to the use of RFID at
gaming tables and throughout a casino. Previously granted licenses to
Progressive Gaming International Corporation ( PGIC ) and Gaming Partners
International for the use of these RFID patents will remain in effect. In
addition, we sold IGT a fifty-percent ownership interest in our Schubert and
Fishbine patents, U.S. patent numbers 6,313,871, 5,781,647 and 6,532,297,
which relate to the use of optical bet recognition and chip tracking at gaming
tables. As part of the equal ownership in the optical patents, IGT has been
added as a named plaintiff in the MP Games I lawsuit (see Note 13 to our
condensed consolidated financial statements). Further, and as part of the
initial $10,510 payment, IGT reimbursed us for certain legal fees incurred on
the MP Games I lawsuit, for the period prior to May 23, 2005, totaling
$1,471. IGT will bear 50% of the legal fees related to the MP Games I lawsuit
going forward and share in any results. The $1,471 reimbursement in legal fees
was recorded as a reduction of legal expense and the balance of the proceeds of
$9,039 was recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the patents. Additionally,
the Two-Party Agreement contains certain non-compete provisions related to our
ability to market any new optical and/or RFID product for periods of three and
six years, respectively, (subject to shortening, based on certain future
events), as discussed in the agreement. As co-owners of the patents, we share
with IGT in future royalties associated with third party licensing of the
purchased RFID patents. Finally, if IGT elects not to make the $4,875 payment
in June 2007, IGT would lose its ownership rights to the RFID patents, and
our non-compete obligations would be substantially eliminated. 

  In conjunction with the Two-Party Agreement, we
entered into a separate worldwide product integration agreement (the  Three-Party
Agreement ) with IGT and PGIC to create a comprehensive, automated table
management solution using complementary capabilities, technologies, and
resources of the three companies. Under the terms of the Three-Party Agreement,
we will be the provider of automatic card shufflers, card reading intelligent
shoes, card and chip sorters and verifiers. IGT will be the provider of
back-end table gaming management systems, including player tracking, patron
loyalty and rewards, as well as bonusing applications. PGIC will be the
provider of RFID bet recognition, automated gaming chip tracking and payoff
recognition. Each company will cooperatively interface their respective
products into a combined product offering to be known as the Intelligent Table
System ( ITS ). The Three-Party Agreement also provides a framework for the
cooperative development of new technologies and products that build on automated
table management and real-time monitoring of table game player activity.  

  These agreements do not impact our ability to continue
to separately market and sell our products which are a part of the projects
which are the subject of the Two-Party Agreement and the Three-Party Agreement.  

     Bet the Set  21 .             Effective June 29, 2005,
we acquired certain assets from Magnum Gaming, Inc. The acquired assets,
which have been assigned to our Entertainment Products segment, included the
Bet the Set  21   TM  side bet table
game and related pending patent and trademark applications, game marks, license
and sub-license rights, and other intellectual property, as well as the  Bet
the Set  name. The acquired installed base of the Bet the Set  21  side bet
table game was 205 units as of the acquisition date and was 181 units as of January 31,
2006. 

  The acquisition price included an initial cash payment
of $540 paid in July 2005, and contingent consideration of $560. The
contingent consideration consists of quarterly payments of 22.5% of  adjusted   

24     

gross revenues,  as
defined, attributed to the Bet the Set  21  side bet table game up to a maximum
of $560. The balance at January 31, 2006, was $549.  

     Spur Gaming Systems.             Effective August 1,
2005, we acquired certain assets from MultiShift, Inc., dba Spur Gaming
Systems ( SPUR ), a privately held corporation that develops and distributes
table games and related products to casinos throughout North America. As a
result of the acquisition, we now own the underlying patents and trademarks for
five additional proprietary games including Jackpot Pai Gow Poker TM  and Progressive Jackpot Pai Gow Poker TM  as well as a multishift drop box. The acquired
installed base of games was 53 units as of the acquisition date and 47 units as
of January 31, 2006. 

  The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase
method of accounting. The acquisition price included a cash payment of $2,778
paid in August 2005, and consulting fees payable to SPUR, pursuant to a
separate consulting agreement, in the amount of $25 per year, commencing on the
closing date or August 1, 2005, and continuing for a period of five years,
for a maximum of $125. Additionally, per the terms of the Asset Acquisition
Agreement by and among Shuffle Master, Inc., and SPUR ( Spur Agreement ),
contingent royalty payments are due quarterly equal to twenty percent of any
adjusted gross revenues, defined as any revenues or amount received by Shuffle
Master, Inc., for placements of the Casino Cribbage Game and the Break
Insurance Game. No such games were placed into service as of January 31,
2006.  

     VIP Gaming
Solutions.             In August 2005,
we acquired VIP Gaming Solutions Pty. Limited ( VIP ), a privately held
corporation with headquarters located in Sydney, Australia. As a result of the
acquisition, we acquired a broader direct sales presence within the
Asia-Pacific region and expanded our product offerings to include a variety of
table game related equipment and accessories. The acquisition price consisted
of a cash payment of $404, of which $96 was related to other direct costs, and
a note payable of $320. 

     Stargames.             As discussed elsewhere, on February 1,
2006, we had substantially completed our acquisition of Stargames Limited ( Stargames )
by purchasing 95% of the outstanding Stargames shares for AU$1.55 per share. The
cash for the shares purchase was being held by the administrative agent
managing the shares purchase on our behalf. Accordingly, the proceeds to be
used to purchase the remaining shares is reflected in cash restricted for
acquisition as of January 31, 2006. Effective March 8, 2006, we had
acquired 100% of the outstanding Stargames shares. We will begin consolidating
Stargames  operating results as of our fiscal quarter ending April 30,
2006. The shares purchase was funded by temporary bridge financing and we
expect to secure permanent financing or an extension of the bridge financing
maturity date prior to the bridge loan s maturity. For additional information
on the bridge financing see Note 3 to our condensed consolidated financial
statements. 

  Additional information
regarding our bridge loan is included in Notes 3 and 7 to our condensed
consolidated financial statements. Additional information regarding our
acquisitions is included in Note 4 to our condensed consolidated financial
statements.  

     DISPOSITIONS   

  In December 2003, our board of directors approved
and we committed to a plan to divest our North America slot products operations
and assets, based on our determination that this product line was no longer a
strategic fit with our refocused core business strategy of providing products
and services for the table game area of casinos. Revenues and costs associated
with our slot products are reported as discontinued operations for all periods
presented. In January 2004, we entered into agreements pursuant to which
we sold substantially all of our slot products  assets and substantially
completed our divestiture plans. Further detail is included under the heading  Discontinued
Operations.   

25  

CONSOLIDATED
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
 (In thousands, except per share amounts)   

Our revenue and results of
operations are most affected by unit placements, through sale or lease, of our
products. The number and mix of products placed and the average lease or sales
price are the most significant factors affecting our gross margins. These
factors are, in turn, affected by the gaming industry generally and our
customers  assessment of our products. To a lesser extent, our overall
financial results are affected by fluctuations in selling, general and
administrative expenses and our continued investment in research and
development activities.   

26     

REVENUE AND GROSS
MARGIN   

We earn our revenue in several ways. Either by leasing
or licensing our products to casino customers, generally under month-to-month
fixed fee contracts (product lease contracts typically include parts and
service) or we offer most of our products for sale with an optional parts and
service contract. A more detailed discussion of our revenue components and
related revenue recognition policies is included under the heading  Critical
Accounting Policies.   

  Our overall revenue growth was due to increases in
both leased and sold units installed base in both our product segments. The
increase in the number of units leased and sold resulted from the introduction
of new products, greater placements of existing products, acquisitions of
products, and to a lesser extent the expansion of legal gaming into new
jurisdictions. A more detailed discussion of our revenue is included for each
of our operating segments under the heading  Segment Operating Results.     

  Overall gross margin
dollars increased for the three months ended January 31, 2006. However, as
a percentage of revenue, our gross margin percentage decreased 6.4% for the
three months ended January 31, 2006, compared to the same prior year
period. The decline in our gross margin percentage is attributed to the product
shift year-over-year. Our sales of the Easy Chipper and Table Master, higher
cost products, have increased year-over-year and have unfavorably impacted our
overall margin. The gross margin for the Easy Chipper is negatively impacted by
the amortization expense associated with the acquired CARD product.  Additionally, we
had fewer lifetime license sales in the current period which typically has a
favorable impact on gross margin dollars and our Table Master products have
overall lower gross margins than our other table game products. 

27     

OPERATING EXPENSES   

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses ( SG A ).             SG A dollars increased
for the three months ended January 31, 2006. However, as a percentage of
revenue, SG A decreased slightly from the prior year period. The
fluctuation in SG A expenses primarily reflects the following: 

             Corporate
legal fees were $1,489 and $1,805 for the three months ended January 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively. The reduction in legal fees quarter over quarter
is attributable to the settlement of the TCS and Vending Data I lawsuits in
fiscal 2005. We expect that our legal fees will continue to vary from period to
period depending on our level of legal activity to protect our intellectual
property and our involvement in non-routine transactions. 

             Share-based
compensation expense under SFAS 123R was $1,203, including $316 of amortization
of restricted stock compensation, for the three months ended January 31,
2006, compared to $144, consisting only of amortization of restricted stock
compensation, in the same prior year period. 

             Fees
related to outside consulting and professional fees associated with the
preparation, finalization and filing of the delayed Annual Report on Form 10-K
for fiscal 2005 were approximately $700 for the three months ended January 31,
2006, compared to no expense in the same prior year period. Additionally, fees
related to our Sarbanes-Oxley 404 compliance were $136 for the three months
ended January 31, 2006 compared to no expense in the prior year period. 

             SG A
related to CARD and VIP were $1,110 for the three months ended January 31,
2006, compared to $888 for CARD in the same prior year period. 

             Payroll
and related expenses, excluding CARD and VIP, increased approximately $896 for
the three months ended January 31, 2006 primarily due to an increase in
the number of employees in order to support the growth of our business. 

  Excluding the impact of the costs associated with the
expensing of share-based compensation and our additional professional fees
related to the delayed filing of our Form 10-K for fiscal 2005, SG A
decreased as a percentage of revenue to 24.3% as compared to 31.1% in the prior
year quarter.  

     Research and
Development Expenses ( R D ).             Our R D in both periods
presented is distributed among all of our product lines, as we have continued
to invest in new product development. For the three months ended January 31,
2006, R D increased primarily due to ITS product development while CARD products
under development contributed $77 to the increase during the three months ended
January 31, 2006. Additionally, share-based compensation expense under SFAS 123R was
$79 for the three months ended January 31, 2006, compared to no expense in
the same prior year period. 

  R D includes
amortization of our patents for products still under development. Amortization
related to the RFID patents was $83 for the three months ended January 31,
2006, compared to $199 expense in the same prior year period. In accordance
with the Two-Party Agreement with IGT and the related sale of   

28     

a 50%
ownership interest in these RFID patents, amortization expense was favorably
impacted. As a result, this favorable impact will continue for future periods
over the life of the RFID patents.  

     OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)   

  Other
income (expense) is comprised of the following:   

Interest income increased primarily as a result of a
greater investment in interest bearing sales-type leases and notes receivable
as of January 31, 2006. For the three months ended January 31, 2006
and 2005, interest income related to sales-type leases and notes receivable was
$291 and $192, respectively.  

  Interest expense is primarily related to the $150,000
of contingent convertible senior notes due in April 2024 (the  Notes ) and
the  $115,000 Bridge Loan due April 2006. The increase in
interest expense is primarily attributed to the Bridge Loan entered into in January 2006.
A more detailed discussion of the Notes and the Bridge Loan are included below
under the heading  Liquidity and Capital Resources.  

  During the three months
ended January 31, 2006, we experienced foreign currency losses related to
unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  

     INCOME TAXES   

  Our effective tax rates for continuing operations were
34.1% and 35.0% for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. The effective tax rate for the current quarter was favorable
impacted by a true-up of fiscal 2005 state taxes related to stock option
exercises. Looking forward, our annual effective tax rate may fluctuate due to
changes in our amount and mix of U.S. and foreign income, changes in tax
legislation and changes in our estimates of federal tax credits and other tax
deductions. We estimate that our fiscal 2006 annual effective tax rate will be
approximately 35.0%.  

  During the three months
ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, we realized income tax benefits of $618
and $3,440, respectively, related to deductions for employee stock option
exercises. These tax benefits, which reduced income taxes payable and increased
additional paid-in capital by an equal amount, had no affect on our provision
for income taxes.  

29     

EARNINGS PER SHARE   

In December 2004, our board of directors approved
a three-for-two common stock split, with new shares distributed in the form of
a dividend on January 14, 2005, to shareholders of record on January 3,
2005 (the  January 2005 Split ). Share and per share amounts have been
adjusted for all periods presented herein to reflect the January 2005
Split.  

   In      March 2004, our board of directors approved a three-for-two
common stock split, with new shares distributed in the form of a dividend on April 16,
2004, to shareholders of record on April 5, 2004 (the  April 2004
Split ). Share and per share amounts have been adjusted for all periods
presented herein to reflect the April 2004 Split.  

30  

SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS   
(Dollars in thousands, except units and per unit amounts)   

     SEGMENT OVERVIEW   

  We have two reportable segments which are classified
as continuing operations, Utility Products and Entertainment Products. Utility
Products include our Shufflers, Chip Sorting Machines and ITS product lines.
Entertainment Products include our Proprietary Table Games, Table Master
products and Shuffle Up. Each segment s activities include the design,
development, acquisition, manufacture, marketing, distribution, installation
and servicing of its product lines.  

     Utility Products.             Our strategy in the Utility
Products segment is the development of products for our casino customers that
enhance table game speed, productivity and security. Currently, Utility Products
segment revenue is derived substantially from our automatic card shufflers. We
develop and market a full complement of automatic card shufflers for use with
the vast majority of card table games placed in casinos and other gaming
locations, including our own proprietary table games. In addition to selling
and servicing, we also lease shufflers, which provide us with recurring revenue.
Our current shuffler product portfolio consists of 6 distinct models, including
both second and third generation shufflers, in the categories of single deck,
multi-deck batch and multi-deck continuous card shufflers. As of January 31,
2006, our shuffler installed base totaled 19,264 units, a 20.1% increase from
16,040 as of January 31, 2005. Our growth strategy for our shuffler
business is the development and distribution of next generation, patent
protected shufflers which enhance the value proposition for our customers
through technological advancements. As a result, we expect to replace our older
generation shufflers over time, while at the same time, increasing the
penetration of our shufflers in the marketplace. 

  As part of the CARD acquisition in May 2004, we
acquired a next generation chip sorting machine, the Easy Chipper. The Easy
Chipper simplifies the handling of gaming chips and accurately tracks chip
volume and value, which increases the productivity and security on high volume
chip tables such as Roulette. During May 2005, we announced our first Easy
Chipper orders, marking the first release of a new product developed by CARD
since the acquisition. During the quarter ended January 31, 2006, we sold
151 Easy Chipper units, compared to no units sold for the same prior year
period. For fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2006, total revenue
contribution from the Easy Chipper was approximately $3,000.  

  Our ITS products remain in the development stage,
including our Intelligent Shoe which increases table game security by reading
each card as it is removed from the shoe to reduce game manipulation.  

     Entertainment
Products.             Our
strategy in the Entertainment Products segment is the development and delivery
of proprietary table game content, which enhances our casino customers  table
game operations. Currently, Entertainment Products segment revenue is derived
substantially from our live proprietary table game content. We develop and
market a full complement of poker, pai gow poker, baccarat and blackjack table
game content. Our current table game portfolio consists of 14 revenue
generating titles, including industry leading brands such as Three Card Poker   , Let It Ride   , Four Card Poker    and
Fortune Pai Gow Poker   .
The majority of these games are licensed to our customers, which provides us
with recurring revenue. In fiscal 2003, we began selling lifetime licenses of
our older proprietary table games to allow access to expanded casino floor
space for our newer table game introductions. As of January 31, 2006, our
proprietary table game installed base totaled 3,786 games, a 13.7% increase
from 3,329 games as of January 31, 2005. Our growth strategy for our live
proprietary table games business is to broaden our content through increased
development and/or acquisition. As a result, we expect to further increase the
penetration of our content in the marketplace, as well as create a longer-term
replacement opportunity. 

  In late fiscal 2004, we expanded on the distribution
of our proprietary table game portfolio with the introduction of our Table
Master product. Table Master is a five station, electronic table game featuring
a video screen with a virtual dealer who interacts with players. In addition to
selling and servicing, we also   

31     

lease our Table Master
product, which provides us with recurring revenue. As of January 31, 2006,
our Table Master installed base totaled approximately 125 units, a 346.4%
increase from 28 units as of January 31, 2005. For fiscal quarter ended January 31,
2006, total revenue contribution from Table Master was approximately $2,300. Our
growth strategy for Table Master is to position the product as a more cost
effective way to offer lower stakes table games to our casino customers. Additionally,
our Table Master platform enables us to offer table game content into markets
where live table games are not permitted, such as racino, video lottery and
arcade markets.  

  In January 2005, through the formation of Shuffle
Up, we broadened the distribution of our branded content and intellectual
property outside of our traditional live table game offerings by developing
live and broadcast tournament events and retail merchandise. In June 2005,
we commenced with our plans to host a Three Card Poker National Championship 
offering participants the chance to compete for a $1 million grand prize. The
tournament consisted of a series of regional tournaments, with the finals held
in Las Vegas, Nevada in late November 2005. Additionally, we have
contracted with LMNO Productions to develop and produce a television program
based on the tournament, which we expect will air in April 2006. Our
long-term strategy through Shuffle Up is further development of additional
distribution channels for our branded content and intellectual property,
including  for fun  gaming activities on the internet, cellular phones,
wireless hand-held devices, board games and home computer games.  

  Segment revenues include sale, lease or licensing of
products within each reportable segment. We measure segment revenue performance
in terms of dollars and Installed Unit Base. Installed Unit Base is the sum of
product units under lease or license agreements and inception-to-date sold
units. We believe that Installed Unit Base is an important gauge of segment
performance because it measures historical market placements of leased and sold
units and it provides insight into potential markets for service and
next-generation products. Some sold units may no longer be in use by our casino
customers or may have been replaced by other models or products. Accordingly,
we are unable to determine precisely the number of units currently in active
use.  

  Segment operating income
includes revenues and expenses directly and indirectly associated with the
product lines included in each segment. Direct expenses primarily include
depreciation of leased assets, amortization of intangible assets, cost of
products sold, shipping, installation, commissions, product approval costs,
research and development and product related litigation. Indirect expenses
include an activity-based allocation of other general product-related costs,
the most significant of which are service and selling expenses, including
share-based compensation expense, and manufacturing overhead. Corporate general
and administrative expenses are not allocated to segments.  

32     

UTILITY
PRODUCTS SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS   

Utility Products segment revenue is derived
substantially from our shuffler product line. Revenue from our former,
non-automated Bloodhound product is not material for the periods presented and
our automated Bloodhound and ITS products remain in the development stage.  

  For the three months ended January 31, 2006,
Utility Products segment revenue increased 63.8%, compared to the same prior
year period, primarily due to a 97.2% increase in Utility Products sales and
service revenue. Additionally, Utility Products lease revenue increased 13.1%,
compared to the same prior year period.  

  The increase in
Utility Products lease revenue for the three months ended January 31,
2006, compared to the same prior year period, primarily reflects:  

             A
net increase of 227 shuffler units on lease. 

             The
increase in net shuffler lease additions was comprised primarily of additional
placements of our third generation shuffler products, including the Deck Mate,
one2six and MD2 shufflers. Net shuffler lease additions include the conversion
of 274 leased units to sold units in the current period and 133 leased
units to sold units in the prior year period. Shuffler conversions for the
current period were comprised primarily of second generation ACE  shufflers, in
anticipation of  

33     

introducing the next
generation specialty table game shuffler, and Deck Mate and MD2 shufflers.  Shuffler conversions for the same prior year
period were comprised primarily of ACE, MD2 and Deck Mate shufflers.  

  The increase in
Utility Products sales and service revenue for the three months ended January 31,
2006, compared to the same prior year period primarily reflects:  

             An
increase of 399 shuffler units sold from 558 to 957. 

             The
increase in sold shuffler units was comprised primarily of additional sales of
Deck Mate, one2six and MD2 shufflers of 374, 220 and 164, respectively, in the
current quarter compared to 106, 197 and 60, respectively, in the prior year
quarter. Further, approximately 12% of domestic shuffler sales in the current
quarter represented replacements of older generation shufflers. 

             We
sold 151 Easy Chipper units, compared to no units sold for the same prior year
period. For fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2006, total revenue
contribution from the Easy Chipper was approximately $3,000. 

  Utility Products segment
operating income and operating margin for the three months ended January 31,
2006, increased 120.5% and 12.6%, respectively, compared to the same prior year
period, primarily due to greater sales volume of our shuffler business and increased
sales of the Easy Chipper product . This increase was partially offset by a larger percentage of one2six
shuffler sales and Easy Chipper sales, which carry a lower gross margin due to
amortization expense related to these acquired CARD products. Amortization
expense associated with the one2six shuffler and Easy Chipper was $849 for the
three months ended January 31, 2006, compared to $599 for the same prior
year period. 

34     

ENTERTAINMENT
PRODUCTS SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS   

For the three months ended January 31, 2006,
Entertainment Products segment revenue decreased 4.5%, compared to the same
prior year period, primarily due to a decrease in lifetime license sales,
partially offset by increases in revenue related to our Table Master products.  

  The increase in
Entertainment Products royalty and lease revenue for the three months ended January 31,
2006, compared to the same prior year period, primarily reflects:  

             A
net increase of 187 table game royalty units on lease. 

             The
increase in net table game lease additions comprised primarily of unit
increases in Four Card Poker, Fortune Pai Gow Poker, Dragon Bonus   , and our more recently acquired games. Additionally,
effective January 1, 2006, we increased the monthly lease rate for Three
Card Poker, which partially benefited the current quarter. The table game
royalty unit increases were offset by the conversion of 60 royalty units to
lifetime license sales, consisting primarily of Three Card Poker and Let It
Ride which currently yields higher average monthly royalty rates than our more
recent game introductions. These conversions are consistent with our
replacement sale strategy of selling our older proprietary table games to allow
access to expanded casino floor space for our newer  

35     

table game introductions. Prior
period conversions totaled 196 royalty units and consisted primarily of Three
Card Poker and Let It Ride.  

             A
net increase of 29 Table Master units on lease. 

  The decrease in Entertainment Products sales and
service revenue for the three months January 31, 2006, compared to the
same prior year period is primarily attributed to a decline in  lifetime license
sales during the three months ended January 31, 2006. The decrease was
partially offset by additional sales of our Table Master products which
totaled 26 for the three months ended January 31, 2006, compared to 5 in
same prior year period. 

  Entertainment Products
segment operating income and operating margin for the three months ended January 31,
2006, decreased compared to the same prior year period. The decreases were
primarily attributed to lower lifetime license sales in the current period
which typically has a favorable impact on margin dollars and our Table Master
products have overall lower margins than our other table game products. Additionally,
our margins in the current period were impacted by introductory pricing
discounts on some of our newer products.  

     DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS   

  In December 2003,
our board of directors approved and we committed to a plan to divest our North
America slot products operations and assets, based on our determination that
this product line was no longer a strategic fit with our refocused core
business strategy of providing products and services for the table game area of
casinos. Revenues and costs associated with our slot products are reported as discontinued
operations for all periods presented. In January 2004, we entered into
agreements pursuant to which we sold substantially all of our slot products 
assets and substantially completed our divestiture plans. Discontinued
operations consisted of the following:  

36  

LIQUIDITY
AND CAPITAL RESOURCES   
(In thousands, except ratios and per share amounts)   

  Our primary historical
source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our
profitable operations. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets,
including accounts receivable, inventory, sales-type leases and notes
receivable and to fund new products through both research and development and
strategic acquisition of businesses and  intellectual property. In April 2004, we
obtained additional capital resources, through the issuance of $150,000 of
Notes. Additionally, in January 2006, we entered into a credit agreement
among the Company, Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch as Lender, Deutsche
Bank AG New York Branch as Administrative Agent and Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc. as Sole Arranger and Book Manager (the  Credit Agreement ). The Credit
Agreement provided for a Bridge Loan (the  Bridge Loan ) in the amount of
$115,000. The proceeds of this Bridge Loan were used to finance the acquisition
of Stargames. 

     LIQUIDITY   

     Working capital.             The following summarizes our
cash, cash equivalents and working capital: 

The decrease in the
current ratio is primarily a result of cash restricted for acquisition and the
short-term bridge financing. Excluding cash restricted for acquisition of
$91,291 and the short-term bridge financing of $115,000, the current ratio was
approximately 4.3 as of January 31, 2006.  

    Cash flows.    

    Operating Activities       Significant    items
included in cash flows from operating activities are as follows: 

Non-cash items are
comprised of depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense,
provision for bad debts, and provision for inventory obsolescence. The increase
in non-cash items for the three months ended January 31, 2006, is
substantially due to share-based compensation of $1,311 for the three months
ended January 31, 2006, compared to $144 in the same prior year period. Additionally,
amortization of intangible assets acquired from BTI and CARD in February and
May 2004, respectively, was $1,203 and $922 for the three months ended January 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively. 

37     

Income tax related items
include deferred income taxes, tax benefit from stock option exercises, prepaid
income taxes and is net of excess tax benefit from stock option exercises. 

             We utilize sales-type
leases and notes receivable as a means to provide financing alternatives to our
customers. It is our intent to continue offering a variety of financing
alternatives, including sales, sales-type leases and notes receivable, and
operating leases, to meet our customers  product financing needs, which may
vary from quarter to quarter. We expect that some of our customers will
continue to choose sales-type leases and notes receivable as their preferred
method of purchasing our products. The volume of sales-type leases and notes
receivable in any period may fluctuate, largely due to our customers 
preferences. 

             Other changes in operating
assets and liabilities primarily consisted of net changes in accounts
receivable, inventories, and accounts payable and accrued liabilities. 

    Investing Activities       Significant    items
included in cash flows from investing activities are as follows: 

Net purchases of
investments consist primarily of the cost method investment of $20,856 related
to the acquisition of Stargames, a $3,000 equity method investment related to
Sona and the net of proceeds from the sale and maturities of investments of
$9,900. 

             Capital expenditures
include purchases of product for lease, property and equipment, and intangible
assets. 

             Cash restricted for
acquisition is related to the proceeds from the bridge financing to be used for
the Stargames acquisition. 

             During the three months
ended January 31, 2005, we posted security deposits of $3,000 related to
preliminary injunctions that we were granted by certain judicial courts. 

    Financing Activities       Significant     items
included in cash flows from financing activities are as follows: 

38     

During the three months
ended January 31, 2006, no shares of our common stock were repurchased,
compared to 150 shares of our common stock at an average price of $29.00 for
the same prior year period. 

             Our employees and directors
exercised 167 options during the three months ended January 31, 2006, at
an average exercise price of $10.61 per share, compared to 566 options at an
average exercise price of $5.92 per share during the same prior year period. 

             We received $114,719
proceeds, net of debt issuance costs, from bridge financing used for the
Stargames acquisition. 

             With
the adoption of SFAS 123R the benefit of tax deductions in excess of the
compensation cost recognized for those options are classified as financing cash
inflows rather than operating cash inflows. 

             During the three months
ended January 31, 2006, we made installment payments of $2,609 for the
ENPAT note payable and $267 for BTI liabilities. 

  On January 25, 2006, we
entered into a Credit Agreement with Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch, as
Lender, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as Administrative Agent, and Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc., as Sole Arranger and Book Manager (the  Credit
Agreement ), pursuant to which we obtained a bridge loan (the  Bridge Loan ) in
the amount of $115,000, in order to finance the acquisition of Stargames.  The Bridge Loan will mature on April 24,
2006.  

  Management intends and
believes it has the ability, to refinance the Bridge Loan on a long-term
basis.  Financing options currently under
consideration, include, but are not limited to (i) an extension of the existing
Credit Agreement, (ii) a senior secured bank credit facility and (iii)
convertible or other debt to be issued by private placement pursuant to Rule
144A under the Securities Act of 1933  

     CAPITAL RESOURCES   

  Excluding any significant
acquisitions of businesses, and assuming we are successful in obtaining
permanent financing related to our recent acquisition of Stargames, we believe
our existing cash, investments, debt financing and projected cash flow from
future operations will be sufficient to fund our operations, long-term
obligations, capital expenditures, and new product development for the
foreseeable future. Projected cash flows from operations are based on our
estimates of revenue and expenses and the related timing of cash receipts and
disbursements. If actual performance differs from estimated performance,
projected cash flows could be positively or negatively impacted.  

     STOCK
REPURCHASE AUTHORIZATIONS   

  Our board of directors
periodically authorizes us to repurchase shares of our common stock. Under our
existing board authorizations, during the three months ended January 31,
2006, no shares of our common stock were repurchased compared to 150 shares of
our common stock repurchased for a total cost of $4,350 at an average price of
$29.00 for the same prior year period. We did not have any common stock
repurchases during the quarter ended January 31, 2006 in anticipation of
closing the Stargames acquisition and as a result of the delay in filing our
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005. As of January 31,
2006, $8,831 remained outstanding under our board authorizations. We cancel
shares that we repurchase.  

  The timing of our
repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our board of directors 
authorization is dependent on future opportunities and on our views, as they
may change from time to time, as to the most prudent uses of our capital
resources, including cash and borrowing capacity. Alternatives that we consider
as possible uses of our capital resources include investment in new products,
acquisitions, funding of internal growth in working capital, and investments in
sales-type leases and notes receivable.  

39     

CONTRACTUAL
OBLIGATIONS AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS   

  Except for the bridge loan
discussed elsewhere, our contractual obligations have not changed materially
from the amounts disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended October 31, 2005. We do not have material off-balance sheet
arrangements.  

     LONG-TERM
LIABILITIES   

     Contingent convertible senior notes.             In April 2004, we issued
$150,000 of contingent convertible senior notes due 2024 (the  Notes ) through
a private placement under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. The
Notes are unsecured and bear interest at a fixed rate of 1.25% per annum. Interest
is payable semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of
each year, beginning October 15, 2004. 

  Holders may convert any
outstanding Notes into cash and shares of our common stock at an initial
conversion price per share of $28.07. This represents a conversion rate of
approximately 35.6210 shares of common stock per $1,000 in principal amount of
Notes. The value of the cash and shares of our common stock, if any, to be
received by a holder converting $1,000 principal amount of the Notes will be determined
based on the applicable Conversion Rate, Conversion Value, Principal Return,
and other factors, each as defined in the indenture covering these Notes.  

  The
Notes are convertible, at the holders  option, into cash and shares of our
common stock, under any of the following circumstances:  

             during
any fiscal quarter commencing after the date of original issuance of the Notes,
if the closing sale price of our common stock over a specified number of
trading days during the previous quarter is more than 120% of the conversion
price of the Notes on the last trading day of the previous quarter; 

             if
we have called the Notes for redemption and the redemption has not yet
occurred; 

             during
the five trading day period immediately after any five consecutive trading day
period in which the trading price of the Notes per $1,000 principal amount for
each day of such period was less than 95% of the product of the closing sale
price of our common stock on such day multiplied by the number of shares of our
common stock issuable upon conversion of $1,000 in principal amount of the
Notes, provided that, if on the date of any conversion pursuant to this trading
price condition, our common stock price on such date is greater than the
conversion price but less than 120% of the conversion price, then the holder
will be entitled to receive Conversion Value (as defined in the indenture
covering these Notes) equal to the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued
and unpaid interest including liquidated damages, if any; or 

             upon
the occurrence of specified corporate transactions. 

  We may call some or all of
the Notes at any time on or after April 21, 2009, at a redemption price,
payable in cash, of 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and
unpaid interest and including liquidated damages, if any, up to but not
including the date of redemption. In addition, the holders may require us to
repurchase all or a portion of their Notes on April 15, 2009, 2014 and
2019, at 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid
interest and including liquidated damages, if any, up to but not including the
date of repurchase, payable in cash. Upon a change in control, as defined in
the indenture governing the Notes, holders may require us to repurchase all or a
portion of their Notes, payable in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount
of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any,
up to but not including the date of repurchase.  

     Bridge loan.             On January 25, 2006, we
entered into a Credit Agreement with Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch, as
a Lender, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as Administrative Agent, and
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as Sole Arranger and Book Manager (the  Credit Agreement ),
pursuant to which we obtained a bridge loan (the  Bridge Loan ) in the amount
of $115,000, in order to finance the  

40     

acquisition of Stargames. The Bridge Loan will mature
on April 24, 2006. The interest rate under the Credit Agreement is based on
the sum of the relevant Base Rate or Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable
Margin, as defined, each as in effect from time to time. The Bridge Loan is
unsecured. The obligations under the Bridge Loan are guaranteed by each
wholly-owned domestic subsidiary of the Company that is not an immaterial
subsidiary and each wholly-owned domestic subsidiary that is not an immaterial
subsidiary of the Company established, created or acquired after January 25,
2006, if any. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative
covenants for transactions of this nature, including but not limited to
restrictions and limitations on the following:  

             Incurrence
of indebtedness; 

             Granting
or incurrence of liens; 

             Pay
dividends and make other distributions in respect of our equity securities; 

             Acquire
assets and make investments; 

             Sales
of assets; 

             Transactions
with affiliates; 

             Mergers;
and 

             Agreements
to restrict dividends and other payments from subsidiaries. 

  As of March 20, 2006,
we are in compliance with all of the affirmative and negative covenants
pursuant to the Credit Agreement. Additional information on these covenants may
be found in Section 7 and Section 8 of the Credit Agreement included
in our Current Report on Form 8-K, dated January 25, 2006.  

  Total debt issuance costs
incurred with the issuance of long-term debt are capitalized and amortized as
interest expense using the effective interest method. Total amortization of
debt issuance costs were $258 and $242 for the three months ended January 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively. Unamortized debt issuance costs of $3,350 as of January 31,
2006, are included in other assets on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.  

     BTI liabilities.       In
connection with our acquisition of certain assets from BTI, we recorded an
initial estimated liability of $7,616 for contingent installment payments
computed as the excess fair value of the acquired assets over the fixed
installments and other direct costs. Beginning November 2004, we pay
monthly note installments based on a percentage of certain revenue from BTI
games for a period of up to ten years, not to exceed $12,000. The balance of
this liability as of January 31, 2006, was $5,901. 

     ENPAT note payable.             In December 2004, we
purchased two RFID technology patents from ENPAT for $12,500. The purchase
price was comprised of an initial payment of $2,400 followed by a $1,100
payment in January 2005 and non-interest bearing annual installments
through December 2007. The balance as of January 31, 2006, of $5,604
represents the discounted present value of the future payments, including
imputed interest of approximately $47. The remaining principal and interest
payments of $3,000 each are due in December 2006 and 2007. 

    Bet the Set  21  contingent
consideration.       In connection with
our acquisition of Bet the Set  21 , we recorded contingent consideration of
$560. The contingent consideration consists of quarterly payments of 22.5% of
 adjusted gross revenues,  as defined, attributed to the Bet the Set  21  side
bet table games up to a maximum of $560. The balance of this liability as of
January 31, 2006, was $549. 

41  

VIP note payable.             In connection with our
acquisition of VIP in August 2005, we recorded a note payable with annual
installments due each July through 2010. The balance of this liability as
of January 31, 2006 was $322. 

     Spur Gaming Systems.             Effective August 1,
2005, we purchased certain assets from SPUR, a privately held corporation that
develops and distributes table games and related products to casinos throughout
North America. Pursuant to a separate consulting agreement, consulting fees
payable to SPUR in the amount of $25 per year, commencing on the closing date
or August 1, 2005, and continuing for a period of five years, for a
maximum of $125. 

     CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES   

  The preparation of our condensed consolidated
financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America requires that we adopt accounting
policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of
assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities,
and our reported amounts of revenue and expenses. We periodically evaluate our
policies, estimates and related assumptions, including: revenue recognition;
amortization, depreciation, and valuation of long-lived tangible and intangible
assets; inventory obsolescence and costing methods; provisions for bad debts;
accounting for share-based compensation; and contingencies. We base our
estimates on historical experience and expectations of the future. Actual
reported and future amounts could differ from those estimates under different
conditions and assumptions.  

  We believe that the following accounting policies and
related estimates are critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial
statements.  

    Revenue    Recognition.         We
recognize revenue when the following criteria are met: 

             persuasive
evidence of an arrangement between us and our customer exists, 

             shipment
has occurred or services have been rendered, 

             the
price is fixed or determinable, and 

             collectibility
is reasonably assured. 

  Specifically, we earn our revenue in a variety of ways.
We offer our products for lease or sale. We also sell service and warranty
contracts for our sold equipment. Proprietary table games are sold under
lifetime licensing agreements or licensed on a monthly or daily fee basis.  

    Lease
and royalty revenue Lease    and royalty revenue is
earned from the leasing of our tangible products and the licensing of our
intangible products, such as our proprietary table games. We recognize revenue
monthly, based on a monthly fixed fee, generally through indefinite term
operating leases. Lease and royalty revenue commences upon the completed
installation of the product. 

   Sales   and service revenue We     generate
sales revenue through the sale of equipment in each product segment, including
sales revenue from sales-type leases and the sale of lifetime licenses for our
proprietary table games. Financing for intangible property and sales-type
leases for tangible property have payment terms ranging generally from 30 to 60
months and are interest-bearing at market interest rates. Revenue from the sale
of equipment is recorded upon shipment. If a customer purchases existing leased
equipment, revenue is recorded on the effective date of the purchase agreement.
Revenue on service and warranty contracts is recognized over the terms of the
contracts, which are generally one year. Revenue from the sale of lifetime
licenses, under which we have no continuing obligations, is recorded on the
effective date of the license agreement. 

42     

Some of our revenue arrangements contain multiple
deliverables, such as a product sale combined with a service element or the
delivery of a future product. If an arrangement requires the delivery or
performance of multiple elements, we recognize the revenue separately for each
element only if the delivered item has stand-alone value to the customer and
the fair value of the undelivered item can be reliably determined. If these
criteria are not met, we do not recognize revenue until all essential elements
have been delivered.  

  Some of our sales
are made through distributorships, particularly for sales in our international
markets.  We evaluate these sales for
proper revenue recognition by evaluating, among other factors, the following,
which, if present, might indicate that an arrangement represents a consignment
of inventory rather than a sale:  

      the distributor pays us only if the product is
ultimately sold to the end customer, 

      the sale is completely financed by us, 

      we dictate the number of units and type
purchased by the distributor under a  quota  system, 

      we take a very active interest in the internal
management of the distributor, 

      we have taken over many of our
distributorships as a result of the distributor s failure to pay for or sell
previously delivered products, and 

      extended payment terms are granted that are
substantially different from those given to normal customers. 

  Certain of our
products contain software, and as such we have considered the guidance
contained in Statement of Position ( SOP )
No. 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as modified by SOP 98-9,
Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain Transactions. Under this
guidance when selling or leasing
software we consider whether the
software component is incidental to the product as a whole based on the
following criteria:  

             Whether
the software is a significant focus of the marketing effort or is sold
separately. 

             Whether
post-contract customer support or PCS (PCS includes the right to receive
services or unspecified upgrades/enhancements, or both, offered to users or
resellers) is provided. 

             Whether
the development and production costs of the software as a component of the cost
of the product is incidental (as defined in SFAS 86). 

             Whether
an agreement includes service elements (other than PCS related services), such
as training or installation, and whether such services are essential to the
functionality of the software or whether such software is considered  off-the-shelf 
(off-the-shelf software is software that is marketed as a stock item that can
be used by customers with little or no customization). Conversely,  core
software  requires significant customization of the software in order for the
software to be used by the end customer. 

  Based on such guidance we have concluded that 1) the
software associated with our shuffler and chipper products is incidental to the
product as a whole and 2) the software associated with our Table Master and
Bloodhound products is  off-the-shelf  and we have satisfied the customer-specified
objective criteria (e.g., it has been designed and tested to operate in a
similar environment to that of our customers and the product is shipped ready
for our customers to install). In all instances, we recognize revenue when the
criteria above are met.  

     Intangible Assets
and Goodwill.             We
have significant investments in intangible assets and goodwill. Intangible
assets primarily include values assigned to acquired products, patents,
trademarks, licenses and  

43     

games. Significant
accounting policies that affect the reported amounts for these assets include
the determination of the assets  estimated useful lives and the evaluation of
the assets  recoverability based on expected cash flows and fair value.  

  Except for the trademark related to the CARD
acquisition, which is not subject to amortization and is tested periodically
for impairment, all of our significant intangible assets are definite lived and
amortized over their expected useful lives. We estimate useful lives based on
historical experience, estimates of products  commercial lives, the likelihood
of technological obsolescence, and estimates of the duration of commercial
viability for patents, trademarks, licenses and games. We amortize
substantially all of our intangible assets proportionate to the related
projected revenue from the utilization of the intangible asset. We believe this
method reflects the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible
asset are consumed or otherwise used up. For certain other intangibles, we use
the straight-line amortization method. Should the actual useful life of an
asset differ from the estimated useful life, future operating results could be
positively or negatively affected.  

  We review our intangible assets for impairment
annually or when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be fully recoverable from undiscounted estimated future cash flows. We
would record an impairment loss if the carrying amount of the intangible asset
is not recoverable and the carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value.  

  We review our goodwill for impairment in October annually
using a two step impairment test. The review is performed at the reporting unit
level, which we have determined is the equivalent to our reportable segments.
In the first step, we estimate the fair value of the reporting unit and compare
it to the book value of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. If the fair
value is less than the book value, then we would perform a second step to
compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill to its book
value. The implied fair value of the goodwill is determined based on the
estimated fair value of the reporting unit less the fair value of the reporting
unit s identifiable assets and liabilities. We would record an impairment
charge to the extent that the book value of the reporting unit s goodwill
exceeds its fair value.  

  Tests for impairment and recoverability of assets
involve significant estimates and judgments regarding products  lives and
utility and the related expected future cash flows. While we believe that our
estimates are reasonable, different assumptions could materially affect our
assessment of useful lives, recoverability and fair values. An adverse change
to the estimate of these cash flows could necessitate an impairment charge that
could adversely affect operating results.  

     Inventory
Obsolescence and Costing Methods.             We value our inventory at the
lower of cost, determined on a first-in-first-out basis, or market and estimate
a provision for obsolete or unsalable inventories based on assumptions about
the future demand for our products and market conditions. If future demand and
market conditions are less favorable than our assumptions, additional
provisions for obsolete inventory could be required. Likewise, favorable future
demand could positively impact future operating results if fully-reserved-for
inventory is sold. 

     Provisions for Bad
Debts.             We
maintain provisions for bad debts for estimated credit losses that result from
the inability of our customers to make required payments. Provisions for bad
debts are estimated based on historical experience and specific customer
collection issues. Changes in the financial condition of our customers could
result in the adjustment upward or downward in the provisions for bad debts,
with a corresponding impact to our operating results. 

     Share-based
Compensation.             On November 1,
2005, we adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB )
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004) ( SFAS
123R ),  Share-Based Payment , and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ( SAB
107 ),  Share-Based Payment , requiring the measurement and recognition of all
share-based  

44     

compensation under the
fair value method. We implemented SFAS 123R using the modified prospective
transition method.  

    Restricted
Stock The    total value of each restricted stock grant,
based on the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant, is initially
reported as deferred compensation under shareholders  equity. This deferred
compensation is then amortized to compensation expense over the related vesting
period. 

     Contingencies   .          We assess our exposures to
loss contingencies including legal and income tax matters and provide for an
exposure if it is judged to be probable and reasonably estimable. If the actual
loss from a contingency differs from our estimate, there could be a material
impact on our results of operations or financial position. Operating expenses,
including legal fees, associated with contingencies are expensed when incurred. 

     ITEM 3.                    QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (In thousands) 

  We are exposed to
market risks, which arise during the normal course of business from changes in
interest rates and foreign exchange rates. A discussion of our primary market
risks are presented below.  

    Interest    rate risk.             Our current investment portfolio primarily consists
of fixed income and investment grade securities. Our investment policy
emphasizes return of principal and liquidity and is focused on fixed returns
that limit volatility and risk of principal. Because of our investment
policies, the primary market risk associated with our portfolio is interest
rate risk. If interest rates were to change by 10%, the net hypothetical change
in fair value of our investments would be $105. 

    Contingent    convertible senior notes.         We
estimate that the fair value of our Notes as of January 31, 2006 is
$157,688. The fair value of our Notes is sensitive to changes in both our stock
and interest rates. Assuming interest rates are held constant, a 10% decrease
in our stock price would decrease the fair value of our Notes by $8,343.
Assuming our stock price remains constant, a 10% increase in interest rates
would decrease the fair value of our Notes by $1,031. 

    Foreign    currency risk.             We operate in numerous countries around the world. Historically,
our business has been denominated in U.S. currency, and accordingly, our
exposure to foreign currency risk has been immaterial. With our acquisition of
CARD in May 2004 and Stargames in February 2006, our volume of
business that is denominated in foreign currency will increase. As such, we
expect an increase in the exposure to our cash flows and earnings that could
result from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. When appropriate,
we may attempt to limit our exposure to changing foreign exchange rates by
entering into foreign currency exchange contracts. However, as of January 31,
2006, we have not entered into any foreign currency exchange contracts. 

     ITEM 4.                    CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES 

     Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

  We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that
are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be
disclosed in our reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded,
processed, summarized, and reported within the time period specified in the
Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms and that such
information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  

  As required by Rule 13a-15(b) promulgated
under the Exchange Act, our management, with the participation of our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the design and
operating effectiveness as of January 31, 2006 of our disclosure controls
and procedures, as defined in   

45     

Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated
under the Exchange Act. Based on this evaluation our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures
were not effective as of January 31, 2006. Such conclusion resulted from
the identification of deficiencies that were determined to be a material
weakness as reported in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K
dated February 27, 2006, and described under  Changes in Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting.   

  Notwithstanding management s
evaluation that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of
January 31, 2006, we believe that the condensed consolidated financial
statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q correctly
present our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the
periods covered thereby in all material respects.  

    Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    

  As reported in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K
dated February 27, 2006, management concluded that its internal control
over financial reporting was not effective as of October 31, 2005. Such
conclusion resulted from the identification of deficiencies that were
determined to be a material weakness. Specifically, we did not have appropriate
internal controls specific to the recognition of revenue related to the
identification and communication of non-standard transactions. This included
the lack of a comprehensive process to address the sales, legal and financial
functions , identification and communication, of such non-standard transactions.
The controls in place were not adequate to identify and evaluate the
appropriate accounting treatment for revenue transactions with non-standard
terms, including extended payment terms, future commitments and establishment
of reasonable assurance of collectibility that affected the timing and amount
of revenue recognized.  

  Subsequent to January 31,
2006, we have undertaken, and will continue to undertake, extensive work to
remedy the material weakness described above. This includes the following
remediation initiatives:  

             Improving
the contract administration process to ensure the approval and circulation of
non-standard contracts, arrangements or transactions; 

             Providing
additional and on-going training to finance and accounting staff (including our
foreign subsidiaries) on the application of technical accounting
pronouncements, especially in the area of revenue recognition. Additionally, we
will provide training to our sales organization to heighten the awareness of
revenue recognition concepts, with emphasis on non-standard contracts; and 

             Employing
additional finance and accounting staff as well as adding additional qualified
personnel and consultants to assist in the remediation and monitoring of
internal control deficiencies. 

  The implementation of these initiatives and additional
procedures being developed remains a priority for us during fiscal 2006.  

  Except for the material
weakness described elsewhere, there have been no changes in our internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during our fiscal quarter ended January 31,
2006, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  

46  

PART II   

     ITEM 1.                    LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS 

  For information on Legal Proceedings, see Note 13 to
our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in
Part 1, Item 1 of this quarterly report.  

  Litigation is inherently
unpredictable. Our current assessment of each matter may change based on future
unknown or unexpected events. If any litigation were to have an adverse result
that we did not expect, there could be a material impact on our results of
operations or financial position. We believe costs associated with litigation
will not have a material impact on our financial position or liquidity, but may
be material to the results of operations in any given period. We assume no
obligation to update the status of pending litigation, except as may be required
by applicable law, statute or regulation. We believe that the final disposition
of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
position, results of operations or liquidity.  

       ITEM 1A.            RISK
FACTORS 

     Forward Looking Statements   

  There are statements herein which are forward-looking
statements that are based on management s beliefs, as well as on assumptions
made by and information available to management. We consider such
statements to be made under the safe harbor created by the federal securities
laws to which we are subject, and, other than as required by
law, we assume no obligation to update or supplement such statements.  

  These statements can be identified by the fact that
they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, and are based on
management s current beliefs and expectations about future events, as well as
on assumptions made by and information available to management. These
forward-looking statements include statements that reflect management s
beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, anticipations, and intentions
with respect to our financial condition, results of operations,
future performance and business, including statements relating
to our business strategy and our current and future
development plans. When used in this report, words such as  anticipate,   believe, 
 estimate,   expect,   intend,   project,   might,   may,   could,   will  and
similar expressions or the negative thereof, as they relate
to us or our management, identify forward-looking
statements.  

  Forward-looking
statements reflect and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from expectations. Risk factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially from expectations include, but are
not limited to, the following:  

             changes
in the level of consumer or commercial acceptance of our existing products
and new products as introduced; 

             increased
competition from existing and new products for floor space in casinos; 

             acceleration
and/or deceleration of various product development, promotion and distribution
schedules; 

             product
performance issues; 

             higher
than expected manufacturing, service, selling, legal, administrative, product
development, promotion and/or distribution costs; 

             changes
in our business systems or in technologies affecting our products or
operations; 

             reliance
on strategic relationships with distributors and technology and manufacturing
vendors; 

             current
and/or future litigation, claims and costs or an adverse judicial finding; 

47     

tax
matters including changes in tax legislation or assessments by taxing
authorities; 

             acquisitions
or divestitures by us or our competitors of various product lines or
businesses and, in particular, integration of businesses that we may acquire; 

             changes
to our intellectual property portfolio, such as the issuance of new
patents, new intellectual property licenses, loss of licenses, claims of
infringement or invalidity of patents; 

             regulatory
and jurisdictional issues (e.g., technical requirements and changes, delays in
obtaining necessary approvals, or changes in a jurisdiction s regulatory scheme
or approach, etc.) involving us and our products specifically or the
gaming industry in general; 

             general
and casino industry economic conditions; 

             the
financial health of our casino and distributor customers, suppliers and
distributors, both nationally and internationally; 

             our
ability to meet debt service obligations and to refinance
our indebtedness, including our senior convertible notes and our bridge
loan, which will depend on our future performance and other conditions or
events and will be subject to many factors that are beyond our control; 

             various
risks related to our customers  operations in countries outside the United
States, including currency fluctuation risk, which could increase the
volatility of our results from such operations; and 

             our
ability to successfully and economically integrate the operations of any
acquired companies, such as Stargames. 

  Additional information on
these and other risk factors that could potentially affect our financial
results may be found in other documents filed by us with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, including our annual reports on From 10-K, other
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
We urge you to carefully read the following discussion of specific risks and
uncertainties that could affect our business.  

      Our intellectual property may be infringed or
misappropriated or subject to claims of infringement or invalidity.    

  We protect our intellectual property rights through a
combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as
licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements.
Because of the differences in foreign patent, trademark and other laws
concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property may not receive the
same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United
States. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our
intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

  We have numerous patents and trademarks, and utilize
patent protection in the U.S. relating to certain existing and proposed
processes and products. We cannot assure you that all of our existing patents
are valid or will continue to be valid, or that any pending patent applications
will be approved. Our competitors have in the past challenged, are currently
challenging, and may in the future challenge the validity or enforceability of
our patents. The patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or
circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to
provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. We cannot
assure you that competitors will not infringe on any of our patents. Further,
we cannot assure you that we will have adequate resources to enforce our
patents.  

  We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is
possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology
or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade
secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants,
advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot
assure you that these agreements   

48     

will provide meaningful
protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in
the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade
secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to
maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could be materially
adversely affected.  

  We rely on our trademarks, trade names, and brand
names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and
have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. We cannot
assure you that our trademark applications will be approved. Third parties may
also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the
trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we
could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand
recognition, and could require us to devote resources advertising and marketing
new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe
our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our
trademarks.  

  We also face the risk that we have infringed third
parties  intellectual property rights. For example, our competitors in both the
U.S. and foreign countries, some of which have substantially greater resources
and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, have applied
for and obtained, and may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that may
prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our
products.  

  Significant
litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. We
have in the past made, are currently making, and may in the future make,
enforcement claims against third parties, and third parties have in the past
made, are currently making, and may in the future make, claims of infringement
against us or against our licensees or manufacturers in connection with their use
of our technology. For information on Legal Proceedings, see Note 13 to our
unaudited consolidated financial statements. As discussed in Note 13 to our
unaudited consolidated financial statements for the three months ended January 31,
2006, we are currently in litigation over various intellectual property matters.
Any claims, even those made by third parties which are without merit, could:  

             be
expensive and time consuming to defend; 

             cause
one or more of our patents to be ruled or rendered unenforceable or invalid; 

             cause
us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged
intellectual property; 

             require
us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products, if feasible; 

             divert
management s attention and resources; or 

             require
us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right
to use a necessary product, process or component. 

  Any royalty or licensing
agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at
all. A successful challenge to or invalidation of one of our patents or
trademarks, or a successful claim of infringement against us or one of our
licensees in connection with its use of our technology, could adversely affect
our business.  

    The gaming industry
is highly regulated, and we must adhere to various regulations and maintain our
licenses to continue our operations.    

  Our products are subject to extensive regulation under
the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdictions where they are used.
We will also become subject to regulation in any other jurisdiction where our
customers operate in the future. These laws, rules and regulations
generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the
owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in gaming   

49     

operations, including
makers of gaming equipment such as ourselves. Some jurisdictions, however,
empower their regulators to investigate participation by licensees in gaming
outside their jurisdiction and require access to and periodic reports concerning
gaming activities. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in
disciplinary action in other jurisdictions.  

  In addition, legislative
and regulatory changes may affect the demand for our products. Such changes
could affect us in a variety of ways, including the introduction of limitations
on our products or opportunities for the use of our products, and the fostering
of competitive games or technologies at our or our customers  expense. For
example, current regulations in a number of jurisdictions where our customers
operate limit the amount of space allocable to slot machines, and substantial
changes in those regulations may adversely affect demand for our products. We
cannot assure you that changes in current or future laws or regulations or future
judicial intervention in any particular jurisdiction would not have a material
adverse effect on our existing and proposed foreign and domestic operations.
Our business will also suffer if our products became obsolete due to changes in
laws or regulations or the regulatory framework.  

    Litigation may subject us to significant legal
expenses and liability.    

  As discussed in Note 13 to
our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended January 31,
2006, we are currently in litigation over various intellectual property matters.
Our current assessment of each matter may change based on future unknown or
unexpected events. Litigation requires the expenditure of significant time and
resources, and is inherently unpredictable. If any litigation were to have an
adverse result that we did not expect, there could be a material impact on our
results of operations or financial position.  

    Our products currently in development may not achieve
commercial success.    

  A number of our products are in various stages of
development. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon
our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop, introduce and
market new products and improvements to our existing products. As a result, we
expect, as needed, to continue to make a significant investment in product
development. Our development of products is dependent on factors such as
reaching definitive agreements with third parties and obtaining requisite
governmental approvals.  

  Future technological advances in the gaming products
industry may result in the availability of new products (or increase the
efficiency of existing products). If a technology becomes available that is
more cost-effective or creates a superior product, we may be unable to access
such technology or its use may involve substantial capital expenditures which
we may be unable to finance. We cannot assure you that existing, proposed or as
yet undeveloped technologies will not render our technology less profitable or
less viable, or that we will have available the financial and other resources
to compete effectively against companies possessing such technologies.  

  While we are pursuing and
will continue to pursue product development opportunities, there can be no
assurance that such products will come to fruition or become successful.
Furthermore, while a number of those products are being tested, we cannot
provide any definite date by which they will be commercially available. We
cannot assure you that these products will prove to be commercially viable, or
that we will be able to obtain the various gaming licenses necessary to
distribute them to our customers. We may experience operational problems with
such products after commercial introduction that could delay or defeat the
ability of such products to generate revenue or operating profits. Future
operational problems could increase our costs, delay our plans or adversely
affect our reputation or our sales of other products which, in turn, could
materially adversely affect our success and our ability to satisfy our
obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including the notes. We cannot
predict which of the many possible future products will meet evolving industry
standards and consumer demands. We cannot assure you that we will   

50     

be able
to adapt to such technological changes or offer such products on a timely basis
or establish or maintain a competitive position.  

    We compete in a
single industry, and our business would suffer if our products become obsolete
or demand for them decreases.    

  We derive substantially
all of our revenues from the sale, lease, licensing and other financing
arrangements of products for the gaming industry. Our business would suffer if
the gaming industry in general, and table games in particular, suffered a
downturn or loss in popularity, if our products became obsolete or if use of
our products decreased. Our operating lease agreements with our customers are
typically month-to-month leases and provide that they can be terminated upon
30 days  prior notice by either party. Accordingly, consistent demand for
and satisfaction with our products by our customers is critical to our
financial condition and future success, and problems, defects or
dissatisfaction with our products could cause us to lose customers or our
revenues from leases with minimal notice. Additionally, our success depends on
our ability to keep pace with technological changes and advances in our
industry and to adapt and improve our products in response to evolving customer
needs and industry trends. If demand for our products weakens due to lack of
market acceptance, technological change, competition or other factors, our
business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to
achieve sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness, including the senior
notes, will be materially adversely affected.  

    We operate in a very competitive business environment.    

  There is intense competition in the gaming products
industry. The development of new competitive products or the enhancement of
existing competitive products in any market in which we operate could have a
negative impact on our business in that market.  

   In general, w e compete
with other gaming and entertainment products for space on the casino customer s
floor, as well as for our customer s capital spending. Some of the larger
gaming supply companies with whom we compete with in this regard are IGT,
Alliance Gaming Corporation, WMS Industries, Inc., and Aristocrat Leisure
Limited.  

   In the Utility Products
segment, w e compete with VendingData Corporation, a U.S. company that
markets batch and continuous versions of its multi-deck shuffler, the Random
Ejection Shuffler   and
more recently their single deck shuffler, the Poker One . Additionally, other companies may develop and market shufflers
and seek to develop and obtain regulatory approvals of additional shuffler
products. We cannot provide assurances that a competitive product will not gain
substantial placements or cause price erosion of our shufflers in the future. With respect to our recently-introduced Easy
Chipper product, several companies also manufacture and sell competitive
chipper products. We believe the most successful of these products is the
Chipper Champ Plus , sold by TCS John Huxley. 

   In our Entertainment Products
segment, t he market for live table games is characterized by numerous
competitors who develop and license proprietary table games. Some of our
competitors  widely known proprietary table game titles include PGIC s
Caribbean Stud     and
Texas Hold em Bonus , Galaxy
Gaming s Lucky Ladies  and Masque
Publishing s Spanish 21   ,
among others. Competition in the table game market is typically on the basis of
price, brand recognition, and the strength of underlying intellectual property.
Smaller developers and vendors are more able to participate in developing and
marketing table games, compared to other gaming products, because of the lower
cost and complexity associated with the development of these products. In the
future, table game competitors could market table games that might displace our
products. There are also numerous other companies that manufacture and/or sell
multi-player games, which are similar to our Table Master product. These
companies include, but are not limited to, Elektroncek, (also known as
Interblock), PokerTek, Inc. and TableMAX Holdings. 

51     

With respect to our
efforts to develop the player tracking and data gathering technologies of our
Intelligent Table System, we believe that several existing gaming companies are
working to develop similar competitive technologies. These companies, or
others, may own intellectual property that is either superior to ours, has
priority over ours or prevents us from marketing our Intelligent Table System without
a license arrangement concerning such intellectual property. We cannot assure
you that we will be able to compete effectively in this market, or that our
competitors will not develop superior technologies or products.  

    If we do not retain
our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees our
business may suffer.    

  If we fail to retain and recruit the necessary
personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new
products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. The
success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key
management personnel and on our key employees. Our employment contracts with
our corporate officers and certain other key employees are primarily  at will 
employment agreements, under which the employee or we may terminate employment.
If any of these persons were to leave our company it could be difficult to
replace them, and our business could be harmed. We do not have key-man life
insurance.  

  Our success also depends
on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled service, sales,
marketing and engineering personnel. Competition for these persons in our
industry is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or
retain qualified personnel.  

    A downturn in
general economic conditions or in the gaming industry or a reduction in demand
for gaming may adversely affect our results of operations.    

  Our business operations
are affected by international, national and local economic conditions. A
recession or downturn in the general economy, or in a region constituting a
significant source of our customers, or a reduction in demand for gaming, could
harm the health of casino operators and our other customers, and consequently
result in fewer customers purchasing or leasing our products, which would
adversely affect our revenues.  

    Acts of terrorism
as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending and travel,
have impacted our industry and may harm our operating results.    

  The potential for future
terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist
attacks and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and
political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of
operations. Future acts of terror or hostilities could reduce our customers 
guests  willingness to travel, with the result that our customers  operations
would suffer, which could have an impact on our operating results.  

    Economic, political
and other risks associated with our international sales and operations could
adversely affect our operating results.    

  Since we sell our
products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing
business internationally. Our sales to customers outside the United States,
primarily Canada, Europe and Australasia, accounted for approximately 23% of
our consolidated revenue in fiscal 2005. We expect the percentage of our
international sales to increase during fiscal 2006 and thereafter due to our
acquisition of CARD in May 2004 and our acquisition of Stargames Limited
in Australia in February 2006. Accordingly, our future results could be
harmed by a variety of factors, including:  

             changes
in foreign currency exchange rates; 

             exchange
controls; 

52     

changes
in regulatory requirements; 

             changes
in a specific country s or region s political or economic conditions; 

             tariffs,
other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; 

             potentially
negative consequences from changes in tax laws; 

             difficulty
in staffing and managing widespread operations; 

             changing
labor regulations; 

             requirements
relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by
subsidiaries; 

             different
regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; 

             restrictions
on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new
businesses in these jurisdictions; and 

             restrictions
on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries. 

  Our international operations are affected by global
economic and political conditions. Changes in economic or political conditions
in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate
movement, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed
on our operations.  

  Fluctuations in the value
of the U.S. dollar, the Euro or the Australian dollar may adversely affect our
results of operations. Because our financial results are reported in dollars,
if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those
results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the
amount of those sales or earnings.  

    We could face considerable business and financial risk
in implementing acquisitions.    

  As part of our overall growth strategy, we have in the
past acquired, and will continue to seek to acquire, complementary products,
assets and businesses. We regularly engage in discussions with respect to and
investigate possible acquisitions. Future acquisitions could result in
potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant expenditures
of cash, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in
amortization expenses, which could have a material adverse effect upon our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  

  The risks associated with acquisitions could have a
material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of
operations. We cannot assure that we will be successful in consummating future
acquisitions on favorable terms or at all or that any future acquisition will
work out as we expect.  

  Our acquisition of
CARD and Stargames, and any other future potential acquisitions, may not
produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipate, and
the acquisition of Stargames may not perform as expected for a variety of
reasons, including:  

             difficulties
in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel,
including those caused by national, geographic and cultural differences; 

             risks
of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; 

             difficulties
in the use, development or sale of intellectual property or future or present
products; 

             potential
loss of employees; 

             currency
fluctuations or changes in exchange rates in connection with sales to customers
in foreign currencies; 

53     

diversion
of management s attention away from other business concerns; and 

             expenses
of any undisclosed or potential legal liabilities. 

  Both Stargames, an
Australian company, and CARD, an Austrian company, substantially increase our
exposure to the risks of international operations. Additionally, all of the
risks applicable to our business also apply to Stargames and CARD. Any one or a
combination of these factors may cause our revenues or earnings to decline.  

    We have completed
our tender offer for shares of Stargames Limited with the proceeds from
temporary bridge financing. We anticipate that we will need to secure permanent
financing. Currently, we do not have commitments for permanent financing and
cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain such financing on terms
reasonably satisfactory to us.    

  On February 1, 2006, our wholly owned indirect
subsidiary, Shuffle Master Australasia Pty. Ltd., substantially completed its
acquisition of Stargames by purchasing 95% of the outstanding Stargames shares
for AU$1.55 per share. Effective March 8, 2006, we had acquired 100% of
the outstanding Stargames shares. As a result, we will begin consolidating
Stargames  operating results as of our fiscal quarter ending April 30,
2006.  

  On January 25, 2006,
we entered into a Credit Agreement with Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch,
as a Lender, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as Administrative Agent, and
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as Sole Arranger and Book Manager (the  Credit
Agreement ), pursuant to which we obtained a bridge loan (the  Bridge Loan ) in
the amount of $115,000, in order to finance the acquisition of Stargames. The
Bridge Loan will mature on April 24, 2006. We expect to secure permanent
financing or an extension of the bridge financing maturity date prior to the
bridge loan s maturity. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to
refinance or extend our bridge loan facility on commercially reasonable terms
or at all. For additional information on the bridge loan see Notes 3 and 7 to
our condensed consolidated financial statements.  

    If our products contain defects, our reputation could
be harmed and our results of operations adversely affected.    

  Some of our products are
complex and may contain undetected defects. The occurrence of defects or
malfunctions could result in financial losses for our customers and in turn
termination of leases, cancellation of orders, product returns and diversion of
our resources. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or
delay in market acceptance of our products and loss of sales.  

    Our business is subject to quarterly fluctuation.    

  Historically, our revenues
and earnings are highest in our fourth fiscal quarter ending October 31
and lowest in our first fiscal quarter ending January 31. Quarterly
revenue and net income may vary based on the timing of the opening of new
gaming jurisdictions, the opening or closing of casinos or the expansion or
contraction of existing casinos, gaming regulatory approval or denial of our
products and corporate licenses, the introduction of new products or the
seasonality of customer capital budgets, and our operating results have
historically been lower in quarters with lower sales. As a result, our
operating results and stock price could be volatile, particularly on a
quarterly basis.  

    Our ability to meet
debt service obligations is subject to many factors that are beyond our control
and may affect future operations.    

  As of January 31,
2006, we had total consolidated indebtedness of approximately $277,511,
consisting primarily of the $150,000 of convertible notes and the Bridge Loan
in the amount of $115,000. Our ability to meet debt service obligations
and to refinance our indebtedness, including our convertible notes and the

54     

bridge
loan, which will depend on our future performance and other conditions or
events and will be subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Our
debt service obligations may:  

             increase
our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 

             limit
our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and
industry; 

             place
us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors;
and 

             limit our ability to borrow
additional funds. 

     ITEM
2.                    UNREGISTERED SALES
OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 

(a) 

Not applicable  

(b)  

Not applicable  

(c)  

In May 2005,
  our board of directors authorized management to repurchase up to $30,000 of
  our common stock in the open market under a share repurchase program with no
  expiration. We did not have any common share repurchases during the quarter
  in anticipation of closing the Stargames acquisition and as a result of the
  delay in filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
  October 31, 2005. As of January 31, 2006, $8,831 remained
  outstanding under our existing board authorizations. Repurchases under all
  previous authorizations have been substantially completed.  

ITEM 6.                    EXHIBITS 

*                       Exhibits 32.1
and 32.2 are furnished to accompany this report on Form 10-Q but
shall not be deemed  filed  for the purposes of Section 18 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise and shall not be deemed
incorporated by reference into any registration statements filed under the
Securities Act of 1933. 

55  

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant
to the requirements of Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
authorized.  

SHUFFLE MASTER, INC.   

(Registrant)  

Date: March 20,
  2006  

/s/ MARK L. YOSELOFF  

Mark L. Yoseloff  

Chairman
  of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   

(Principal
  Executive Officer)   

/s/ RICHARD L. BALDWIN  

Richard L.
  Baldwin  

Senior
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

(Principal
  Accounting Officer)   

56  

<EX-31.1>
 2
 a06-7289_2ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.1   

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

     CERTIFICATION   

  I, Mark L.
Yoseloff, certify that:  

  1.                    I
have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Shuffle Master, Inc.; 

  2.                    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                    The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting  (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

  a)                  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

  b)                 Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

  c)                  Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures,
as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

  d)                 Disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

  5.                    The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent function): 

  a)                  All significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

  b)                 Any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 20,
  2006 

/s/ MARK L. YOSELOFF  

Mark L. Yoseloff  

Chairman
  of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   

1  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 a06-7289_2ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.2   

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

     CERTIFICATION   

  I, Richard L. Baldwin,
certify that:  

  1.                    I have reviewed
this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Shuffle Master, Inc.; 

  2.                    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                    The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting  (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

  a)                  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  b)                 Designed such internal control over
financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting
to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

  c)                  Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures,
as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

  d)                 Disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

  5.                    The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent function): 

  a)                  All significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

  b)                 Any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 20, 2006 

/s/ RICHARD L. BALDWIN  

Richard L.
  Baldwin  

Senior
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

1  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 a06-7289_2ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.1   

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
(18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350)   

  In connection with
the Quarterly Report of Shuffle Master, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q
for the period ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Mark L. Yoseloff,
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, certify, pursuant to section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. section 1350), that to the
best of my knowledge:  

  (1)             The Report fully
complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

  (2)             The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: March 20, 2006 

/s/ MARK L. YOSELOFF  

Mark L. Yoseloff  

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   

1  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 a06-7289_2ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.2   

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
(18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350)   

  In connection with
the Quarterly Report of Shuffle Master, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-Q
for the period ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Richard L. Baldwin,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, certify, pursuant to section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. section 1350), that to the best
of my knowledge:  

  (1)             The Report fully
complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

  (2)             The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: March 20, 2006 

/s/ RICHARD L. BALDWIN  

Richard L. Baldwin  

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

1  

</EX-32.2>

