<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060209_10-Q_edgar_data_890634_0000950136-06-000832_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>826329</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>73756</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>621</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>686626</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>21</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950136-06-000832.hdr.sgml : 20060209
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060209141057
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950136-06-000832
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060209
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060209

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALLIED HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000890634
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES [8082]
		IRS NUMBER:				133098275
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11570
		FILM NUMBER:		06592178

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		555 MADISON AVENUE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10022
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2127500064

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		555 MADISON AVENUE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10022

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TRANSWORLD HEALTHCARE INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19970610

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TRANSWORLD HOME HEALTHCARE INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940728

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 POTKSog24cT+cvzC+ai/JhiwrMOcBALGAZlr3EdymHHyDEEUgYUDwYWkd7nMOV27
 yNkikiEfSWNfdbqwvSV+Vw==

 0000950136-06-000832.txt : 20060209

10-Q
 1
 file001.htm
 FORM 10-Q

UNITED
STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C.
20549 

FORM
10-Q 
 
 For The Quarterly Period Ended December  31,
2005 
 OR 

From the transition period from
                      to

Commission File
Number 1-11570 

ALLIED HEALTHCARE
INTERNATIONAL INC. 
 (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its
charter) 

New
York   
   
   13-3098275   

(State
or other jurisdiction of  incorporation or
organization)  
   
  (I.R.S. Employer  Identification
No.)  

555 Madison Avenue, New York, New York
10022 
 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip
Code) 

Registrant s telephone number, including
area code:  (212) 750-0064 
 Indicate by check mark
whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90
days. 
 YES        NO     
 Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 
 YES        NO     
 Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). 
 YES        NO     
 Indicate
the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes
of common stock, as of the latest practicable
date. 

ALLIED HEALTHCARE
INTERNATIONAL INC. 
 FIRST QUARTER REPORT ON FORM
10-Q 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 PART
I 

Item
1.  
   
  Financial
Statements
(Unaudited)  
   
  3  

Condensed
Consolidated Balance Sheets   December  31,  2005
(Unaudited) and September  30,
2005  
   
  4  

Condensed Consolidated
Statements of Operations (Unaudited)   For the Three Months Ended December  31,  2005 and December
31,  2004  
   
  5  

Condensed
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)   For the Three Months Ended December  31,  2005 and
December  31,
2004  
   
  6  

Notes to Condensed
Consolidated Financial Statements
(Unaudited)  
   
  7  

Item
2.  
   
  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of
Operations  
   
  17  

Item 3.  
   
  Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk  
   
  24  

Item 4.  
   
  Controls and
Procedures  
   
  24  

PART
II   

Item 6.  
   
  Exhibits  
   
  26  

Forward-Looking
Statements:      The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995 provides a   safe harbor   for
forward-looking statements. Certain statements contained in this
Quarterly Report may be forward-looking statements. These
forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and
projections about future events. Actual results could differ materially
from those discussed in, or implied by, these forward-looking
statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from
those implied by the forward-looking statements include: Allied
Healthcare International Inc. s (the
  Company  ) ability to continue to recruit
and retain qualified flexible healthcare staff; ability to enter into
contracts with hospitals and other healthcare facility customers on
terms attractive to the Company; the general level of patient occupancy
at hospital and healthcare facilities of the Company s
customers; the ability to successfully implement acquisition and
integration strategies; dependence on the proper functioning of the
Company s information systems; the effect of existing or future
government regulation of the healthcare industry, and ability to comply
with these regulations; the impact of medical malpractice and other
claims asserted against the Company; the effect of regulatory change
that may apply to the Company and that may increase costs and reduce
revenue and profitability; the ability to use net operating loss carry
forwards to offset net income; and the impairment of goodwill, of which
the Company has a substantial amount on the balance sheet, may have the
effect of decreasing earnings or increasing losses. Other factors that
could cause actual results to differ from those implied by the
forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report include those
described in the Company s most recently filed SEC documents,
such as its most recent annual report on Form 10-K, all quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q and any current reports on Form 8-K filed since
the date of the last Form 10-K. The Company undertakes no obligation to
publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or
otherwise. 
 2 

Part
I 
 Item 1.    Financial Statements (Unaudited). 
 The
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Allied Healthcare
International Inc. (the   Company  ) begin
on page 4. 
 3 

ALLIED HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL
INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 (In thousands,
except per share data) 

See
notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
 4 

ALLIED HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL
INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
 (In
thousands, except per share data) 
 
 (Unaudited) 

See
notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 
 5 

ALLIED HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL
INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 (In
thousands) 
 
 (Unaudited) 

See
notes to condensed consolidated financial
statements. 
 6 

ALLIED
HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 (In thousands, except per share
data) 
 
 (Unaudited) 

1. Basis
of Presentation: 
 Allied Healthcare International Inc.
and its subsidiaries (the   Company  ) is a
leading provider of flexible, or temporary, healthcare staffing to the
United Kingdom (  U.K.  ) healthcare
industry as measured by revenues, market share and number of staff. At
December  31,  2005, the Company operated an integrated
network of approximately 100 branches throughout most of the U.K. The
Company s healthcare staff consists principally of nurses,
nurses aides and home health aides (known as carers in the U.K.), which
comprises its staffing segment
(  Staffing  ). The Company focuses on
placing its staff on a per diem basis in hospitals, nursing homes, care
homes and private homes. The Company maintains a pool of over 22,000
nurses, nurses aides and home health aides. The Company also supplies
medical-grade oxygen for use in respiratory therapy to the U.K.
pharmacy market and Northern Ireland and oxygen concentrators to
customers in Northern Ireland, which comprised its oxygen segment
(  Oxygen  ). 
 The Condensed
Consolidated Financial Statements presented herein are unaudited and
include all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments)
which are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair
presentation of the financial position and results of operations of the
interim periods pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities
and Exchange Commission. Certain information and footnote disclosures
normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America (  U.S.  ) have been condensed or
omitted. The balance sheet at September  30,  2005 has been
derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date, but
does not include all information and footnotes required by U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial
statements. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be
read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included
in the Company s Form 10-K for the year ended September
30,  2005. Although the Company s operations are not
highly seasonal, the results of operations for the three months ended
December  31,  2005 are not necessarily indicative of
operating results for the full year. 
 Certain prior
period balances have been reclassified to conform to the current period
presentation. 
 2. Stock-Based
Compensation: 
 Prior to October  1,  2005,
the Company accounted for its stock-based compensation plans using the
intrinsic value method prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , and related
interpretations ("APB No. 25  ) and provided
the required pro forma disclosures of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation . 
 In December  2004, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (the   FASB  ) issued FAS No. 123R,
 Share-Based Payment  (  FAS No.
123R  ), which requires companies to measure, at the
grant date, and recognize in the financial statements compensation
expense for all stock-based payments at fair value over the requisite
service period. Effective the beginning of fiscal 2006, the Company
adopted FAS No. 123R using the modified prospective application method.
In accordance with the modified prospective application method of FAS
No. 123R, financial results for the prior periods have not been
restated. As a result of adopting FAS No. 123R, stock-based
compensation cost recognized in selling, general and administrative
expenses lowered income before income taxes and net income for the
three months ended December  31,  2005, by $164, compared
with if the Company had continued to account for stock-based
compensation under APB No. 25. The adoption of FAS No. 123R had no
impact on basic and diluted earnings per shares
(  EPS  ) for the three months ended
December  31,  2005. The Company recognizes compensation
expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. As
of December  31,  2005, there was $849 of total
unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation
awards, net of estimated forfeitures, which the Company expects to
recognize over a weighted average period of approximately 1.7
years. 
 7 

ALLIED
HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 (In thousands, except per share
data) 
 
 (Unaudited) 

Stock
Options 
 Under the shareholder approved 1992 Stock
Option Plan and 2002 Stock Option Plan, the Company may grant incentive
and non-qualified options to purchase its common stock to key
employees, officers, directors and non-employee independent
contractors. Effective with the adoption of the Company s 2002
Stock Option Plan, no further options may be granted under the 1992
Stock Option Plan. Stock options are issued at an exercise price per
share which is not less than the fair market value of the stock on the
grant date and generally expire ten years from the grant date. Options
granted under the plans generally may be exercised upon payment of the
option price in cash or by delivery of shares of our common stock with
a fair market value equal to the option price. Certain option awards
provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control. Shares
delivered under the 2002 Stock Option Plan will be available from
authorized but unissued shares of common stock or from shares of common
stock reacquired by the Company. Shares available for future grant
under the 2002 Stock Option Plan were 2,063 shares at December
31,  2005. 
 Following is a summary of stock option
activity during the three months ended December  31,
2005: 

The
weighted average grant-date fair value of stock options granted during
the three months ended December  31,  2005 was $3.81. No
options were granted in the three months ended December
31,  2004. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during
the three months ended December  31,  2005 and 2004 was $71
and $21, respectively. For options exercised during the three months
ended December  31,  2005, $134 was received in cash to
cover the exercise price of the options exercised. For the three months
ended December  31,  2004, 19 option shares were used to
cover the exercise price of the options exercised. The fair value of
each option granted is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions: 

The
average risk-free interest rate is based on the three-year U.S.
treasury security rate in effect as of the grant date. The Company
determined expected volatility using a weighted average of its
historical month-end close stock price. The expected life was
determined using the simplified method. 
 8 

ALLIED
HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 (In thousands, except per share
data) 
 
 (Unaudited) 

Following is a summary of
the status of the Company s nonvested stock options as of
December  31,  2005 and the activity for the three months
ended December  31,
2005: 

The
total fair value of share options vested during the three months ended
December  31,  2005 and 2004 was $361 and $418,
respectively. 
 Prior Year Pro Forma Stock Options
Expense 
 The following presents pro forma net income and
related per share amounts as if a fair value based method had been used
to account the Company s stock options for the first quarter of
fiscal
2005: 

Three
Months Ended December 31, 2004  

Net income
available to common shareholders, as reported

$  
  4,827  

Add: Stock-based compensation
included in reported net income, net of related tax
effect  

21  

Less: Total stock-based
compensation expense determined under fair value based method for all
awards, net of related tax
effects  

(274  
  )   

Pro forma
net income available to common
shareholders  
   
  $  
  4,574  

Basic
and diluted net income per share per
share:  

As
reported  
   
  $  
  0.11  

Pro
forma  
   
  $  
  0.10  

Stock-based
compensation expense does not reflect any significant income taxes as
the Company has a full valuation allowance for its net deferred tax
asset associated with its historical U.S.
activities. 
 3.    Cash and Cash
Equivalents: 
 Included in cash and cash equivalents are
amounts placed in escrow deposits for the potential payments on
contingent consideration that is dependent upon future earnings of the
Company s acquisition of certain flexible staffing agencies.
These escrow deposits totaled $2,146 and $2,483 at December  31,
2005 and September  30,  2005, respectively. 
 4.    Property and Equipment: 
 Property and
equipment, including revenue-producing equipment, is carried at cost,
net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Revenue-producing
equipment consists of oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators and oxygen
valves. Depreciation for revenue-producing equipment is provided on the
straight-line method over their estimated useful lives ranging from
seven to twenty years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the
related lease terms or estimated useful lives, whichever is
shorter. 
 9 

ALLIED
HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 (In thousands, except per share
data) 
 
 (Unaudited) 

Major classes of property and
equipment, net, consist of the following at December  31,
2005 and September  30,
2005: 

Depreciation
and amortization of property and equipment for the three months ended
December  31,  2005 and 2004 were $970 and $619,
respectively. The net book value of revenue producing equipment was
$11,918 and $8,417 at December  31,  2005 and
September  30,  2005, respectively. 
 5.    Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets: 
 Goodwill and other
intangible assets are carried at cost, net of accumulated
amortization. 
 In accordance with FAS No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , all goodwill and
intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are no longer subject
to amortization but are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company
completed its annual impairment test required under FAS No. 142 during
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 and determined there was no
impairment to its recorded goodwill balance. 
 The
following table presents the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill
for the three months ended December  31,
2005: 

The
goodwill associated with acquisitions during the prior twelve months is
subject to revision based on the finalization of the determination of
the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Included in
the goodwill acquired during the period ended December
31,  2005 are the re-allocations of net excess purchase price
from assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with prior
year acquisitions of $5. 
 Intangible assets subject to
amortization are being amortized on the straight-line method and
consist of the
following: 

10 

ALLIED
HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 (In thousands, except per share
data) 
 
 (Unaudited) 

Amortization
expense for other intangible assets still subject to amortization was
$448 for the three months ended December  31,  2005. At
December  31,  2005, estimated future amortization expense
of other intangible assets still subject to amortization is as follows:
approximately $1,288 for the nine months ending September
30,  2006 and $1,714, $1,638, $1,601 and $1,425 for the fiscal
years ending September  30,  2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010,
respectively. 
 6.    Note Payable: 
 During the
quarter ended December  31,  2004, the Company repaid,
through its U.K. subsidiary, a note payable of $1,866 that was issued
in fiscal 2003 in connection with the acquisition of a certain flexible
staffing agency. 
 7.    Accrued
Expenses: 
 Accrued expenses consist of the following at
December  31,  2005 and September  30,
2005: 

8. Business
Combinations: 
 During the three months ended
December  31,  2005, the Company acquired the entire issued
share capital of Primary Care Training Limited (a home care training
agency) for approximately $778 in cash and additional contingent cash
consideration of up to $860 dependent upon (i) future earnings in
fiscal 2006, (ii) providing a set minimum of training programs and
(iii) the sellers continuing employment with the Company until at least
December  31,  2006. 
 The pro-forma results
of operations and related per share information for this acquisition
has not been presented as the amounts are considered immaterial. 
 During the three months ended December  31,
2005, the Company completed its purchase price allocation for two of
its fiscal 2005 acquisitions. Accordingly, tangible assets, separately
identifiable intangible assets and liabilities were assigned values of
approximately $1,482, $1,251 and $371, respectively, with the remaining
portion of $1,895 attributable to goodwill. 
 The
preliminary purchase price allocations for the remaining fiscal 2005
and fiscal 2006 acquisitions are subject to adjustments and will be
finalized once additional information concerning asset and liability
valuations are obtained. Accordingly, final asset and liability fair
values may differ from those  
 11 

ALLIED
HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 (In thousands, except per share
data) 
 
 (Unaudited) 

set forth on the accompanying condensed
consolidated balance sheet at December  31,  2005; however,
the changes are not expected to have a material effect on the
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows of
the Company. 
 9.    Reorganization: 
 In the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, in response to the changing structure of
the method of supply to the NHS, the Company reorganized its U.K.
operations. Thus, instead of operating through a number of different
subsidiaries to supply healthcare staff, the Company s
healthcare staffing business was reorganized into two main operations.
One part of the Company s flexible healthcare staffing business
is operated by its Allied Staffing Professionals Limited subsidiary,
which provides staff to the NHS under the NHS Framework Agreements and
also provides staff to its operations in the northern England. The
remainder of the Company s healthcare staffing business is
operated by its Allied Healthcare Group Limited subsidiary, and
includes the rest of its NHS business and all its homecare work. As a
result of this reorganization, and in accordance with FAS No. 146,
   Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities ,   the Company recognized pre-tax
charges of $631 to satisfy existing lease obligations on the closure of
several of its U.K. offices and $442 for severance and employee related
costs in its fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. At December
31,  2005, $498 to satisfy existing lease obligations on the
closure of several of its U.K. offices has not been paid. At
September  30,  2005, $601 to satisfy existing lease
obligations on the closure of several of its U.K. offices and $50 for
severance and employee related costs had not been
paid. 
 In 2005, the U.K. Department of Health sought to
unify the supply of oxygen to NHS patients in England and Wales. The
current system uses pharmacies to supply cylindered gases, while oxygen
concentrators are supplied via regional contracts with homecare
providers. Under the revised system homecare providers will be
permitted to supply cylindered gas and liquid oxygen as well as oxygen
concentrators. The Company submitted a re-tender offer for such
businesses and in 2005, the Company received two written contracts for
the South East of England which will commence in February  2006.
As the existing cylinder business is organized on a National
distribution structure, the award of the areas in the South East of
England only will require a reorganization of some of the
Company s facilities from the center of the U.K. to the South
East of England in the current fiscal year. The Company s supply
of cylindered gases in Northern Ireland and Scotland is unaffected, as
is its contract to supply oxygen concentrator services in Northern
Ireland. These changes have resulted in the Company incurring
additional charges and capital expenditures in fiscal 2006 as it
migrates from the existing contracts to the new contracts
awarded. 
 10.    Financial Instruments: 
 On
March  20,  2003, the Company entered into a Rate Cap and
Floor Collar Agreement that capped its interest rate at LIBOR of
5.50% and its interest floor at LIBOR of 4.47%, subject
to special provisions, on approximately $86,040 of the Company s
floating rate debt under a contract which would have expired on
March  20,  2008. In February  2005, the Company sold
this derivative instrument for approximately $100. 
 On
February  8,  2005, the Company entered into two interest
rate swap agreements, which expire on July  20,  2009, the
objective of which is to protect the Company against the potential
rising of interest rates on its floating rate debt. The two interest
rate swap agreements cover approximately $51,624 of the
Company s floating rate debt until January  21,
2008 and then decreases by $5,162 each six month period, in order to
reflect the amortizing effect of the Company s floating rate
debt, until the end of the interest rate swap agreements. The interest
rate under the swap agreements is fixed at 4.935% and is payable
semi-annually. In the third quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company
designated the two interest  
 12 

ALLIED
HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 (In thousands, except per share
data) 
 
 (Unaudited) 

rate swap agreements as cash flow hedges. In
accordance with FAS No. 133,  Accounting for Certain Derivative
Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities , as amended by FAS No.
138 and related implementation guidance (  FAS No.
133  ), the Company calculated the fair value of the
interest rate swap agreements to be a liability of $689 at
December  31,  2005. Prior to the cash flow hedge
designation, changes in the value from period to period of the interest
rate swap agreements was recorded as other expense or income, as
appropriate. At December  31,  2005, the effective portion
of the loss on the interest rate swap agreements designated as cash
flow hedges was $359, net of income tax, and is included in other
comprehensive income. The Company will continue to assess the
effectiveness of these cash flow hedges on a quarterly
basis. 
 11.   Income Taxes: 
 The Company
recorded a provision for income taxes amounting to $1,211 or
26.2% of income before income taxes for the three months ended
December  31,  2005, compared to a provision of $1,958 or
28.9% of income before income taxes for the three months ended
December  31,  2004. The difference in the effective tax
rate between the three months ended December  31,  2005 and
the three months ended December  31,  2004 is mainly due to
permanent differences in the U.K. The Company records reserves for
estimates of probable settlements relating to certain U.S. and U.K. tax
matters. The results of these matters and negotiations with the taxing
authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. These
tax reserves are included in current liabilities. 
 12.   Earnings Per Share: 
 Basic earnings per
share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding. Diluted EPS adjusts basic EPS for the effects of stock
options and warrants only when such effect is dilutive. The Company
uses the treasury stock method to calculate the effect of outstanding
shares, which require it to compute total assumed proceeds as the sum
of (a) the amount the employee must pay upon exercise of the award, (b)
the amount of unrecognized share-based compensation costs attributed to
future services and (c) the amount of tax benefits, if any, that would
be credited to additional paid-in capital assuming exercise of the
award. Share-based compensation awards for which total assumed proceeds
exceed the average market price over the applicable period have an
antidilutive effect on EPS and are excluded from the calculation of
diluted EPS. At December  31,  2005 and 2004, the Company
had outstanding stock options and warrants to purchase 1,014 and 1,466
shares, respectively, of common stock ranging in price from $5.65 to
$7.25 and $5.41 to $7.25 per share, respectively, that were not
included in the computation of diluted EPS because they were
antidilutive. 
 The weighted average number of shares
used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations for the
three months ended December  31,  2005 and 2004 are as
follows: 

13.   Comprehensive
(Loss) Income: 
 Components of comprehensive (loss)
income include net income and all other non-owner changes in equity,
such as the change in the cumulative translation adjustment and
unrealized losses from cash  
 13 

ALLIED
HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 (In thousands, except per share
data) 
 
 (Unaudited) 

flow hedging activities, which are the only
items of other comprehensive (loss) income impacting the Company. The
following table displays comprehensive (loss) income for the three
months ended December  31,  2005 and
2004: 

14.   Commitments
and Contingencies: 
 
 Acquisition
Agreements : 
 Related to the Company s
acquisitions of certain flexible staffing agencies, the Company has
entered into agreements to pay additional amounts, payable in cash, of
up to $11,748 at December  31,  2005, in contingent
consideration dependent upon future earnings of such acquired
entities. 
 
 Guarantees : 
 The senior credit
facility is secured by a first priority lien on the assets of Allied
Healthcare Group Holdings Limited and certain of its subsidiaries.
Together with Allied Healthcare Group Holdings Limited and certain of
its subsidiaries, the Company is guaranteeing the debt and other
obligations of certain wholly-owned U.K. subsidiaries under the senior
credit facility. At December  31,  2005 and
September  30,  2005, the amounts guaranteed, which
approximate the amounts outstanding, totaled $60,228 and $64,342,
respectively. 
 
 Employment
Agreements : 
 The Company has three employment
agreements with its executive officers that provide for minimum
aggregate annual compensation of approximately $1,000 in fiscal
2006. 
 
 Operating Leases : 
 The
Company has entered into various operating lease agreements for office
space and equipment. Certain of these leases provide for renewal
options. At December  31,  2005, the Company had $8,390 of
lease obligations that reflect future minimum rental commitments
required under operating leases that have non-cancelable lease
terms. 
 
 Contingencies : 
 Some of
the Company s subsidiaries were Medicare Part B suppliers who
submitted claims to the designated carrier who is the
government s claims processing administrator. From time to time,
the carrier may request an audit of Medicare Part B claims on a
prepayment or postpayment basis. If the outcome of any audit results in
a denial or a finding of an overpayment, then the affected subsidiary
has appeal rights. Under postpayment audit procedures, the supplier
generally pays the alleged overpayment and can pursue appeal rights for
a refund of any paid overpayment incorrectly assessed against the
supplier. 
 The Company believes that it is in
compliance, in all material respects, with the applicable provisions of
the federal statutes, regulations and laws and applicable state laws,
together with all applicable laws and regulations of other countries in
which the Company operates. Due to the broad and  
 14 

ALLIED
HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 (In thousands, except per share
data) 
 
 (Unaudited) 

sometimes vague nature of these laws and
regulations, there can be no assurance that an enforcement action will
not be brought against the Company, or that the Company will not be
found to be in violation of one or more of these provisions. At
present, the Company cannot anticipate what impact, if any, subsequent
administrative or judicial interpretation of the applicable federal and
state laws and those of other countries may have on the
Company s consolidated financial position, cash flows or results
of operations. 
 The Company is involved in various other
legal proceedings and claims incidental to its normal business
activities. The Company is vigorously defending its position in all
such proceedings. Management believes these matters should not have a
material adverse impact on the consolidated financial position, cash
flows or results of operations of the
Company. 
 15.   Operations by Business Segments and Geographic
Areas: 
 The Company s operations are in the U.K.
The U.K. operations derive its revenues from flexible healthcare
services, consisting principally of nurses, nurses aides and home
health aides, and supply of medical-grade oxygen for use in respiratory
therapy products to the U.K. pharmacy market and in Northern Ireland
and also provides oxygen concentrators to customers in Northern
Ireland. 
 The Company evaluates performance and allocates
resources based on profit and loss from operations before corporate
expenses, interest and income taxes. The accounting policies of the
business segment are the same as those described for the Company. 
 The following tables present certain financial information
by reportable business segment for the three months ended
December  31,  2005 and
2004. 

15 

ALLIED
HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 (In thousands, except per share
data) 
 
 (Unaudited) 

16.   Profit
Sharing Plan: 
 The Company maintains a defined
contribution plan, pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue
Code, covering all U.S. employees who meet certain requirements. In
addition to the U.S. plan, the Company s U.K. subsidiaries also
sponsor personal pension plans that operate as salary reduction plans.
The Company expects to contribute $12 to such plans in fiscal
2006. 
 17.   Recent Accounting Standards: 
 In
May  2005, the FASB issued FAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and
Error Corrections (   FAS No.
154  ). FAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in
accounting principle and requires retrospective application to prior
periods  financial statements of changes in accounting
principle, unless it is impracticable to determine the effect of a
change. FAS No. 154 also makes a distinction between
  retrospective application   of an
accounting principle and the
  restatement   of financial statements to
reflect the correction of an error. FAS No. 154 is effective for
accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years
beginning after December  15,  2005. The Company does not
believe the adoption of FAS No. 154 will have a material impact on its
consolidated financial position and results of
operations. 
 16 

Item
2.    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations 
 General 
 The
following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with
the information contained in the Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains, in addition to
historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks
and uncertainty. Our actual results could differ materially from the
results discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that
could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed
on page 2 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under
  Forward-Looking Statements.   
 We
are a leading provider of flexible, or temporary, healthcare staffing
to the United Kingdom (  U.K.  ) healthcare
industry as measured by revenues, market share and number of staff. At
December  31,  2005, we operated an integrated network of
approximately 100 branches throughout most of the U.K. Our healthcare
staff consists principally of nurses, nurses aides and home health
aides (known as carers in the U.K). We focus on placing our staff on a
per diem basis in hospitals, nursing homes, care homes and private
homes. We maintain a pool of over 22,000 nurses, nurses aides and home
health aides. We also supply medical-grade oxygen for use in
respiratory therapy to the U.K. pharmacy market and Northern Ireland
and oxygen concentrators to customers in Northern Ireland. 
 The
National Health Services (the   NHS  ) has
divided England into eight regions and requires any healthcare staffing
company that provides temporary staff to the NHS hospitals in a region
to enter into a Framework Agreement setting forth, among other things,
applicable quality standards and maximum payment rates. The
introduction and further extension of the NHS Framework Agreements has
continued to impact our financial results by reducing our margins from
that source of business. In addition, we have experienced reduced
revenues from the NHS as a result of the NHS Framework Agreements, as
well as the efforts of the NHS to source more of its work from its own
employee base and its in-house agency (NHS
Professionals). 
 Critical Accounting Policies 
 The
preparation of our financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures in a
given reporting period. We believe the following accounting policies
are critical areas affecting our financial condition and results of
operations where estimates are required. 
 
 Accounts
Receivable 
 
 We are required to estimate the collectibility
of our accounts receivable, which requires a considerable amount of
judgment in assessing the ultimate realization of these receivables,
including the current credit-worthiness of each customer. Significant
changes in required reserves may occur in the future as we continue to
expand our business and as conditions in the marketplace change. 
 
 Intangible Assets 
 
 We have significant amounts of
goodwill and other intangible assets. The determination of whether or
not goodwill has become impaired involves a significant amount of
judgment. Changes in strategy and/or market conditions could
significantly impact these judgments and require adjustments to
recorded amounts of goodwill. We have recorded goodwill and separately
identifiable intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions through
December  31,  2005. Goodwill is tested for impairment
annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. A more frequent
evaluation will be performed if indicators of impairment are present.
We completed the annual impairment test of goodwill during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2005 and determined that there was no impairment to
our goodwill balance. The calculation of fair value used for an
impairment test includes a number of estimates and assumptions,
including future income and cash flow projections, the identification
of appropriate market multiples and the choice of an appropriate
discount rate. If we are required to record an impairment charge in the
future, it could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial
position or results of operations. 
 17 

Deferred Income Taxes 
 
 We
account for deferred income taxes based upon differences between the
financial reporting and income tax bases of our assets and liabilities.
Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce
deferred tax assets to the amounts expected to be realized. The
determination of whether or not valuation allowances are required to be
recorded involves significant estimates regarding the future
profitability of our company, as well as potential tax strategies for
the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. 
 
 Contingencies 
 
 Related to our acquisitions of certain
flexible staffing agencies, we have entered into agreements to pay
additional amounts, payable in cash, in contingent consideration
dependent upon future earnings of such acquired entities. 
 Also,
we are involved in various legal proceedings and claims incidental to
our normal business activities. We are required to assess the
likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as
well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the
amount of reserves required, if any, for these contingencies are made
after careful analysis of each individual issue. The required reserves
may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or
changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing
with these matters. 
 
 Revenue Recognition 
 
 Patient
services and respiratory therapy revenues are recognized when services
are performed and substantiated by proper documentation. For patient
services, which are billed at fixed rates and account for approximately
97% of our company s business, revenue is recognized upon
completion of timesheets that also require the signature of the
recipient of services. Revenues from the rental of home medical
equipment are recognized over the rental period (typically on a
month-to-month basis). Revenues from the sale of oxygen and supplies
for use in respiratory therapy are recognized when products are
shipped, a contractual arrangement exists, the sales price is either
fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured. 
 We
receive a majority of our revenue from the NHS and other U.K.
governmental payors. Certain revenues are subject to review by
third-party payors and adjustments, if any, are recorded when
determined. 
 
 Purchase Accounting 
 
 We account for our
acquisitions as purchase business combinations. At acquisition,
preliminary values and useful lives are allocated based upon fair
values that have been determined for assets acquired and liabilities
assumed and management s best estimates for values that have not
yet been finalized. We obtain a third-party valuation in order to
complete our purchase price allocations. Accordingly, final asset and
liability fair values as well as useful lives may differ from
management s original estimates and could have an adverse impact
on our consolidated financial position or results of
operations. 
 Results of Operations 
 
 Three Months Ended
December  31,  2005 vs. Three Months Ended December
31,  2004 

Revenues 
 
 Total revenues for
the three months ended December  31,  2005 were
$75.9  million compared to $86.6  million for the three
months ended December  31,  2004, a decrease of
$10.7  million or 12.4%. This was mainly due to less
demand and price pressures arising from the extension of the NHS
framework agreements and the unfavorable effects of changes in foreign
exchange ($5.1  million). The decrease was offset by acquisitions
in the social service sector ($6.3  million). 
 
 Gross
Profit 
 
 Total gross profit decreased by $1.5  million
to $23.7  million for the three months ended December
31,  2005 from $25.2  million for the three months ended
December  31,  2004, a decrease of  
 18 

5.9%. The unfavorable effects of
changes in foreign exchange accounted for $1.6  million of the
decrease. As a percentage of total revenue, gross profit for the three
months ended December  31,  2005 increased to 31.3%
from 29.1% for the comparable prior period. Gross margins for
patient services increased (30.6% for the three months ended
December  31,  2005 versus 28.6% for the comparable
prior period) mainly due to management s focus on supplying
healthcare staff to our higher margin customers and acquisitions being
focused on higher margin businesses which offset the impact of lower
margins in our NHS business. Gross margins in respiratory, medical
equipment and supplies sales increased (54.7% for the three
months ended December  31,  2005 versus 47.9% for
the comparable prior period) mainly due to an increased focus on sales
of portable oxygen therapy equipment and a steady increase in the
number of patients in Northern Ireland, while keeping costs
static. 
 
 Selling, General and Administrative
Expenses 
 
 Total selling, general and administrative expenses
increased by $0.9  million to $18.1  million for the three
months ended December  31,  2005 from $17.2  million
for the three months ended December  31,  2004, an increase
of 5.2%. This increase was mainly due to an increased level of
overhead, principally related to new acquisitions, increased IT
depreciation and maintenance costs arising from the implementation of
our new computerized accounting and payroll systems ($0.8
million), stock-based compensation ($0.2  million), costs
associated with our company obtaining a dual listing on the AIM stock
exchange in the U.K. ($0.2 million) and additional costs in the
respiratory, medical equipment and supplies business in preparation for
the introduction of their new contracts in the South East of England
beginning in February  2006 (see Note 9 of the Notes to Condensed
Consolidated Financial Statements for further details). The increase
was partially offset by changes in foreign exchange ($1.2
million). 
 
 Interest Income 
 
 Total interest income
for the three months ended December  31,  2005 was
$0.03  million compared to $0.07  million for the three
months ended December  31,  2004. The decrease in interest
income was attributable to a lower level of funds
invested. 
 
 Interest Expense 
 
 Total interest expense
for the three months ended December  31,  2005 was
$1.0  million compared to $1.3  million for the three
months ended December  31,  2004, which represents a
decrease of $0.3  million. This decrease was principally due to
the recording of a $0.3  million charge related to the change in
the fair value of our company s interest rate cap and floor
collar agreement in the three months ended December  31,
2004. 
 
 Provision for Income Taxes 
 
 We recorded a
provision for income taxes amounting to $1.2  million or
26.2% of income before income taxes for the three months ended
December  31,  2005, compared to a provision of $2.0
million or 28.9% of income before income taxes for the three
months ended December  31,  2004. The difference in the
effective tax rate between the three months ended December
31,  2005 and the three months ended December  31,
2004 is mainly due to permanent differences in the U.K. 
 
 Net
Income 
 
 As a result of the foregoing, we recorded net income
of $3.4  million for the three months ended December
31,  2005 compared to net income of $4.8  million for the
three months ended December  31,  2004. 
 Liquidity
and Capital Resources 
 General 
 For the three
months ended December  31,  2005, we generated $10.8
million of cash from operating activities. Cash requirements for the
three months ended December  31,  2005 for capital
expenditures  
 19 

($7.2  million), payments for
acquisitions and acquisitions payable ($2.7  million) and net
payments on revolving loan ($2.6  million), were met through
operating cash flows and cash on hand. 
 In January  2001,
we initiated a stock repurchase program, whereby we may purchase up to
approximately $1.0  million of our outstanding shares of common
stock in open-market transactions or in privately-negotiated
transactions. In May  2003, we initiated a second stock
repurchase program, pursuant to which we may purchase up to an
additional $3.0  million of our outstanding shares of common
stock in open-market transactions or in privately-negotiated
transactions. As of December  31,  2005, we had acquired
407,700 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of
$1.3  million pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, which
are reflected as treasury stock in the condensed consolidated balance
sheet at December  31,  2005. In addition, as of
December  31,  2005, we had acquired 177,055 shares of our
common stock for an aggregate value of $1.0  million related to
delivery to us of our company shares by certain executives for payment
on promissory notes issued by them to our company. 
 We believe
the existing capital resources and those generated from operating
activities and available under existing borrowing arrangements will be
adequate to conduct our operations for the next twelve months. 
 Accounts Receivable 
 We maintain a cash management
program that focuses on the reimbursement function, as growth in
accounts receivable has been the main operating use of cash
historically. At December  31,  2005 and September
30,  2005, $27.3  million (9.1%) and $33.4
million (11.0%), respectively, of our total assets consisted of
accounts receivable. The decrease in the accounts receivable from
fiscal year end is mainly due to timing of cash collections and lower
volume of business. 
 Our goal is to maintain accounts receivable
levels equal to or less than industry average, which would tend to
mitigate the risk of negative cash flows from operations by reducing
the required investment in accounts receivable and thereby increasing
cash flows from operations. Days sales outstanding
(  DSOs  ) is a measure of the average
number of days taken by our company to collect its accounts receivable,
calculated from the date services are rendered. At December
31,  2005 and September  30,  2005, our average DSOs
were 32 and 36, respectively. 
 Borrowings 
 
 General 
 
 In the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2004, our U.K. subsidiary obtained a new senior
credit facility. Subject to the terms of the senior credit facility,
ancillary facilities, in the form of an additional facility or
financial accommodation (including an interest rate swap, cap, or other
arrangement for the hedging or fixing of interest) are available up to
a maximum of  15  million. 
 The senior credit
facility is secured by a first priority lien on the assets of Allied
Healthcare Group Holdings Limited (  Allied
Holdings  ) and certain of its subsidiaries. Together
with Allied Holdings and certain of its subsidiaries, our company is
guaranteeing the debt and other obligations of certain wholly-owned
U.K. subsidiaries under the senior credit facility. 
 The senior
credit facility consists of the
following: 

Repayment of the term loan A
commenced in January  2005 and continues semi-annually until
final maturity. Repayment of loan B shall be on the last day of its
interest period. Both A and B loans bear interest at rates equal to
LIBOR plus any bank mandatory costs (if applicable) plus 0.70%
to 0.90% per annum (depending on consolidated debt to
consolidated profit ratios). As of December  31,  2005, we
had outstanding borrowings of $41.3  million and $18.9
million relating to term loan A and revolving loan B, respectively,
under the senior credit facility, that bore interest at rates ranging
from 5.37% to 5.58%. 
 20 

The senior credit facility agreement is
based on the U.K.'s Loan Markets Association Multicurrency Term
and Revolving Facilities agreement which is a standard form designed to
be commercially acceptable to the corporate lending
market. 
 Subject to certain exceptions, the senior credit facility
prohibits or restricts the following, among other
things: 

incurring liens and granting security
interests; 

incurring additional
indebtedness; 

making certain fundamental
corporate changes; 

paying dividends (including
the payment of dividends to us by our
subsidiaries); 

making specified investments,
acquisitions or disposals; and 

entering into
certain transactions with affiliates. 

The senior credit facility
contains affirmative and negative financial covenants customarily found
in agreements of this kind, including the maintenance of certain
financial ratios, such as debt to earnings (including amounts provided
for depreciation and amortization), earnings (before interest and
taxes) to interest expense, minimum net worth, maximum ancillary
facilities indebtedness and the prohibition of off balance sheet
funding. We are also obligated to ensure that the guarantors of the
senior credit facility must not at any time represent less than
90% of the consolidated gross assets, turnover or earnings
before interest and taxes of the U.K. subsidiaries. As of
December  31,  2005, we were in compliance with such
covenants. 
 
 Notes Due in Connection with
Acquisitions 
 
 During the quarter ended December
31,  2004, we repaid, through our U.K. subsidiary, a note payable
of $1.9  million issued in fiscal 2003 in connection with the
acquisition of a certain flexible staffing agency. 
 
 Guarantees 
 
 The senior credit facility is secured by a
first priority lien on the assets of the Allied Holdings and certain of
its subsidiaries. Together with Allied Holdings and certain of its
subsidiaries, our company is guaranteeing the debt and other
obligations of certain wholly-owned U.K. subsidiaries under the senior
credit facility. At December  31,  2005 and
September  30,  2005, the amounts guaranteed, which
approximates the amounts outstanding, totaled $60.2  million and
$64.3  million, respectively. 
 
 Financial
Instrument 
 
 On March  20,  2003, we entered into
a Rate Cap and Floor Collar Agreement that capped our interest rate at
LIBOR of 5.50% and our interest floor at LIBOR of 4.47%,
subject to special provisions, on approximately $86.0  million of
our floating rate debt under a contract which would have expired on
March  20,  2008. In February  2005, we sold this
derivative instrument for approximately $0.1  million. 
 On
February  8,  2005, we entered into two interest rate swap
agreements, which expire on July  20,  2009, the objective
of which is to protect us against the potential rising of interest
rates on our floating rate debt. The two interest rate swap agreements
cover approximately $51.6  million of our floating rate debt
until January  21,  2008 and then decreases by $5.2
million each six month period, in order to reflect the amortizing
effect of our floating rate debt, until the end of the interest rate
swap agreements. The interest rate under the swap agreements is fixed
at 4.935% and is payable semi-annually. In the third quarter of
fiscal 2005, we designated the two interest rate swap agreements as
cash flow hedges. In accordance with FAS No. 133,  Accounting for
Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities , as
amended by FAS No. 138 and related implementation guidance (FAS No.
133), we calculated the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements
to be a liability of $0.7  million at December  31,
2005. Prior to the cash flow hedge designation, changes in the value
from period to period of the interest rate swap agreements was recorded
as other expense or income, as appropriate. At December
31,  2005, the effective portion of the loss on the interest rate
swap  
 21 

agreements designated as cash flow hedges was
$0.4  million, net of income tax, and is included in other
comprehensive income. We will continue to assess the effectiveness of
these cash flow hedges on a quarterly
basis. 
 Commitments 
 
 Acquisition
Agreements 
 
 Related to our acquisitions of flexible staffing
agencies, we have entered into agreements to pay additional amounts,
payable in cash, of up to $11.7  million, as of December
31,  2005, in contingent consideration dependent upon future
earnings of such acquired entities. 
 
 Employment
Agreements 
 
 We have three employment agreements with our
executive officers that provide for minimum aggregate annual
compensation of approximately $1.0  million in fiscal 2006. 
 In September  2001, we entered into an employment agreement
with Timothy M.  Aitken. The employment agreement has a
three-year term (subject to automatic renewal for successive additional
one-year periods unless either party provides the other with notice of
intent to terminate the agreement at least 90 days before the then
applicable termination date). The employment agreement provides that we
will negotiate in good faith, commencing not less than 90 days prior to
the anniversary date of the employment agreement, the amount, if any,
of future salary increases. The salary of Mr.  Aitken is
currently $0.5  million. Mr.  Aitken s employment
agreement provides that if his employment is terminated during the term
of the agreement other than for cause, death or disability, or if,
within six months of a   change in
control   (as defined in the agreement) of our company,
Mr.  Aitken or the company terminates his employment, then (1)
all stock options in the Company held by Mr.  Aitken shall
immediately vest and (2) Mr.  Aitken will be entitled to receive
a cash payment of 2.9 times his average annual base salary during the
twelve months preceding the change of control or the termination of
employment. 
 In September  2001, we entered into an
employment agreement with Sarah L. Eames, which was modified in
November  2004 and September  2005. Pursuant to her
employment agreement, as modified, Ms.  Eames will serve as
Executive Vice President of our company until December
31,  2006 at an annual salary of $0.1  million. Ms.
Eames  employment agreement, as amended, provides that if her
employment is terminated during the term of the agreement other than
for cause, death or disability, then all stock options in our company
held by Mr.  Eames shall immediately vest and Ms.  Eames
shall be entitled to receive her salary through December
31,  2006. 
 In Deeds of Restrictive Covenants entered into
in 1999 with one of our U.K. subsidiaries, Mr.  Aitken and
Ms.  Eames have each agreed not to compete with us or our
subsidiaries for twelve months following termination of employment
without our prior written consent. 
 We have also entered into an
employment agreement with Charles F. Murphy, our Chief Financial
Officer. The employment agreement with Mr.  Murphy is terminable
by either party on six months  notice and provides that
Mr.  Murphy will not compete against us for a period of twelve
months following his termination of employment. Pursuant to his
employment agreement, Mr.  Murphy s salary is currently
$0.3  million. 
 
 Operating Leases 
 
 The Company
has entered into various operating lease agreements for office space
and equipment. Certain of these leases provide for renewal
options. 
 22 

Contractual Cash
Obligations 
 
 As described under
  Borrowings,   and
  Commitments   above, the following table
summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December
31,  2005 (dollars in
thousands): 

(1)  
  These
amounts do not include interest payments. Based on current levels of
debt, we expect to incur annual interest payments of approximately
$3.5  million.  

Lease obligations reflect future
minimum rental commitments required under operating lease agreements as
of December  31,  2005. Certain of these leases provide for
renewal options. Other obligations reflect contingent consideration
related to our acquisitions of certain flexible staffing agencies and
third-party fees for the implementation of our accounting and payroll
systems. 
 
 Contingencies 
 
 Some of our subsidiaries
were Medicare Part B suppliers who submitted claims to the designated
carrier who is the government s claims processing administrator.
From time to time, the carrier may request an audit of Medicare Part B
claims on a prepayment or postpayment basis. If the outcome of any
audit results in a denial or a finding of an overpayment, then the
affected subsidiary has appeal rights. Under postpayment audit
procedures, the supplier generally pays the alleged overpayment and can
pursue appeal rights for a refund of any paid overpayment incorrectly
assessed against the supplier. 
 We believe that we are in
compliance, in all material respects, with the applicable provisions of
federal laws and regulations and applicable state laws, together with
the applicable laws and regulations of other countries in which we
operate. Due to the broad and sometimes vague nature of these laws and
regulations, there can be no assurance that an enforcement action will
not be brought against us, or that we will not be found to be in
violation of one or more of these laws or regulations. At present, we
cannot anticipate what impact, if any, subsequent administrative or
judicial interpretations of applicable federal and state laws and the
laws of other countries in which we operate may have on our financial
position, cash flows and results of operations. 
 We are involved
in various legal proceedings and claims incidental to our normal
business activities. We are vigorously defending our position in all
such proceedings. We believe that these matters should not have a
material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, cash
flows or results of operations. 
 
 Impact of Recent Accounting
Standards 
 
 See Note 17 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements for our quarter ended December  31,
2005. 
 23 

Item
3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk 
 
 Foreign Currency Exchange 
 
 We face exposure
to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These
exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could
have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial results.
Currently, we do not hedge foreign currency exchange rate
exposures. 
 
 Interest Rate Risk 
 
 Our exposure to
market risk for changes in interest rates relate primarily to our cash
equivalents and the senior credit facility. Our cash equivalents
include highly liquid short-term investments purchased with initial
maturities of 90 days or less. To manage our exposure to interest rate
changes related to our senior credit facility, we use interest rate
swap agreements. 
 In fiscal 2005, we entered into two interest
rate swap agreements, which expire on July  20,  2009, the
objective of which is to protect us against the potential rising of
interest rates on our floating rate debt. The two interest rate swap
agreements cover approximately $51.6  million of our floating
rate debt until January  21,  2008 and then decreases by
$5.2  million each six month period, in order to reflect the
amortizing effect of our floating rate debt, until the end of the
interest rate swap agreements. The interest rate under the swap
agreements is fixed at 4.935% and is payable semi-annually. In
the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we designated the two interest rate
swap agreements as cash flow hedges. In accordance with FAS No. 133, we
calculated the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements to be a
liability of $0.7  million at December  31,  2005.
Prior to the cash flow hedge designation, changes in the value from
period to period of the interest rate swap agreements was recorded as
other expense or income, as appropriate. At December  31,
2005, the effective portion of the loss on the interest rate swap
agreements designated as cash flow hedges was $0.4  million, net
of income tax, and is included in other comprehensive income. We will
continue to assess the effectiveness of these cash flow hedges on a
quarterly basis. 
 The interest rate on our remaining bank debt of
$8.6  million is reset at least every month to reflect current
market rates. Consequently, the carrying value of our variable rate
bank debt approximates its fair value at December  31,
2005. 
 Item 4. Controls and
Procedures 
 
 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures.     Our company s management, with the
participation of our chief executive officer and our chief financial
officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures as of December  31,  2005. 
 Under the rules
of the Securities and Exchange Commission,   disclosure
controls and procedures   are controls and other
procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, such as this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without
limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by us in our reports that we file or submit
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer
and chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure. 
 Based on such evaluation, our
chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded
that, as of December  31,  2005, our disclosure controls
and procedures were effective to ensure that the information we are
required to disclose in reports that we file or submit to the
Securities and Exchange Commission is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported within the time periods specified under the rules and
forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 
 Changes in
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.     Under the rules of
the Securities and Exchange Commission,   internal
control over financial reporting   is defined as a
process designed by, or under the supervision of, an issuer s
principal executive and principal financial officers, and effected by
the issuer s board of directors, management and other personnel,
to provide reasonable assurances  
 24 

regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. 
 There have not been any changes in our internal
control over financial reporting during the quarter ended
December  31,  2005 that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting. 
 25 

Part II 
 Item
6.    Exhibits 
 31.1 Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
Certification of Chief Executive Officer. 
 31.2 Rule
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial
Officer. 
 32.1 Section 1350 Certification of Chief
Executive Officer. 
 32.2 Section 1350 Certification of
Chief Financial Officer. 
 26 

SIGNATURES 
 Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 
 Dated:
February  9, 2006 

ALLIED HEALTHCARE INTERNATIONAL
INC. 

By:   
  /s/ Charles F.
Murphy                     
 Charles F.
Murphy Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer and
Duly Authorized to Sign on Behalf of
Registrant) 

<EX-31.1>
 5
 file002.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Exhibit
31.1 
 Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive
Officer 
 I, Timothy M.  Aitken, certify
that: 
 1. I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q of Allied Healthcare International Inc. (the
  Registrant  ); 
 2. Based on
my knowledge, this Quarterly Report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which
such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this Quarterly Report; 
 3. Based on my
knowledge, the consolidated financial statements and other financial
information included in this Quarterly Report fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in
this Quarterly Report; 
 4. The Registrant s other
certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and we
have: 
 (a) designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
the period in which this Quarterly Report is being prepared; 
 (b) designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to
be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 
 (c) evaluated the
effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this Quarterly Report our conclusions about
the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report based on such
evaluation; 
 (d) disclosed in this Quarterly Report
any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the Registrant s first fiscal
quarter ended December  31,  2005 that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and 
 5. The Registrant s other certifying officer
and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors
and the audit committee of the Registrant s board of
directors: 
 (e) all significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 
 (b) any fraud, whether
or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 
 Date: February  9,
2006 

/s/ Timothy M.
Aitken                         
 Timothy M.
Aitken Chief Executive Officer (principal executive
officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 file003.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Exhibit
31.2 
 Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial
Officer 
 I, Charles F. Murphy, certify
that: 
 1. I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q of Allied Healthcare International Inc. (the
  Registrant  ); 
 2. Based on
my knowledge, this Quarterly Report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which
such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this Quarterly Report; 
 3. Based on my
knowledge, the consolidated financial statements and other financial
information included in this Quarterly Report fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in
this Quarterly Report; 
 4. The Registrant s other
certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and we
have: 
 (a) designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
the period in which this Quarterly Report is being prepared; 
 (b) designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to
be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 
 (c) evaluated the
effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this Quarterly Report our conclusions about
the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report based on such
evaluation; 
 (d) disclosed in this Quarterly Report
any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the Registrant s first fiscal
quarter ended December  31,  2005 that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and 
 5. The Registrant s other certifying officer
and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors
and the audit committee of the Registrant s board of
directors: 
 (a) all significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 
 (b) any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the Registrant s
internal control over financial reporting. 
 Date:
February  9,  2006 

/s/ Charles F.
Murphy 
 Charles F. Murphy Chief Financial Officer 
(principal financial officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 file004.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERT. OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Exhibit
32.1 
 Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive
Officer 
 In connection with the Quarterly Report of Allied
Healthcare International Inc. (the
  Company  ) on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended December  31,  2005, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
  Report  ), I, Timothy M.
Aitken,  Chief  Executive  Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18. U.S.C. section. 1350, as adopted
pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
that: 
 (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements
of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934; and 
 (2) The information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of the Company as at and for the quarter ended
December  31,  2005. 
 Date: February
9,  2006 

/s/ Timothy M.
Aitken                         
 Timothy M.
Aitken Chief Executive Officer of the
Company 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 file005.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERT. OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Exhibit
32.2 
 Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial
Officer 
 In connection with the Quarterly Report of Allied
Healthcare International Inc. (the
  Company  ) on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended December  31,  2005, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
  Report  ), I, Charles F. Murphy, Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to
18. U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
that: 
 (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements
of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934; and 
 (2) The information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of the Company as at and for the quarter ended
December  31,  2005. 
 Date: February
9,  2006 

/s/ Charles F.
Murphy                         
 Charles F.
Murphy Chief Financial Officer of the
Company 

</EX-32.2>

