<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060313_10-Q_edgar_data_827156_0000950153-06-000641_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>386838</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>99853</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>170336</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>30</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950153-06-000641.hdr.sgml : 20060313
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060313162109
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950153-06-000641
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060313
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060313

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ZILA INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000827156
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	WHOLESALE-MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES [5047]
		IRS NUMBER:				860619668
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-17521
		FILM NUMBER:		06682356

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5227 NORTH 7TH STREET
		CITY:			PHOENIX
		STATE:			AZ
		ZIP:			85014-2800
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6022666700

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5227 NORTH 7 STREET
		CITY:			PHOENIX
		STATE:			AZ
		ZIP:			85014-2800

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LyImVuRs7nd8gt5h97gjxwZeITim+1D9OHsCSEbBB78cIllcq7j3Da+KCZ6i5AVF
 /Rt1ipX48wJgHvf+R0UHcA==

 0000950153-06-000641.txt : 20060313

10-Q
 1
 p72012e10vq.htm
 10-Q

e10vq 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, DC 20549 

Form 10-Q 

QUARTERLY REPORT 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

ZILA, INC. 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) 

5227 North 7th Street, Phoenix, Arizona 85014-2800  
 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code     (602) 266-6700 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
reports, and (2) has been subject to the filing requirements for at least the past 90 days. 
          Yes        No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition
of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
            Large Accelerated Filer                         Accelerated Filer                          Non-Accelerated Filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 
          Yes        No    

As of February 28, 2006, 45,937,662 shares of our common stock, $0.001 par value, were outstanding.

Table of Contents   

ZILA, INC. 
QUARTERLY REPORT ON FORM 10-Q 
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED JANUARY 31, 2006 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

Part I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)  

Item 1. Financial Statements 

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005 

3 

Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss for the three-month and six-month periods ended
January 31, 2006 and 2005 

4 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three-month and six-month periods ended January 31, 2006 and
2005 

5 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

6 

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

14 

Item 3 .  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

24 

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 

24 

Part II. OTHER INFORMATION  

Item 1. Legal Proceedings 

25 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

25 

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

25 

Item 3. Defaults upon Senior Securities 

25 

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

25 

Item 5. Other Information 

25 

Item 6. Exhibits 

26 

SIGNATURES  

26 

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  

27 

Exhibit 31.1    
     Exhibit 31.2    
     Exhibit 32.1    
     Exhibit 32.2    

2

Table of Contents   

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Item 1. Financial Statements. 

ZILA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

 3

Table of Contents   

ZILA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

4

Table of Contents   

ZILA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

 5

Table of Contents   

ZILA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 

1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION 

Zila, Inc. and subsidiaries ( Zila ), a Delaware corporation, is an innovator in preventive
healthcare technologies and products, focusing on enhanced body defense and the detection of
pre-disease states.

Our business is organized into the following Business Units: Nutraceuticals, Pharmaceuticals
and Biotechnology. The Nutraceuticals Business Unit includes Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc., a
manufacturer and marketer of  Advanced Protection  Ester-C  and Ester-E , proprietary, branded,
highly effective forms of vitamin C and vitamin E. The Zila Pharmaceuticals Business Unit includes
Zila Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of products to promote oral health and
prevent oral disease, including ViziLite  Plus oral lesion identification kits and Peridex 
prescription periodontal rinse, and Zila Swab Technologies, Inc., dba Innovative  Swab Technologies
( IST ), a manufacturer of plastic molded products. The Zila Biotechnology Business Unit includes
Zila Biotechnology Inc., Zila Technical, Inc., and Zila Limited, and is the research, development
and licensing business specializing in pre-cancer/cancer detection through our patented Zila
Tolonium Chloride ( ZTC  ) and OraTest  technologies.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
for interim financial information. Accordingly, such financial statements do not include all
the information and footnotes required by accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America for annual financial statements. We believe that the accompanying
consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments (which are of a normal recurring
nature) that are necessary for a fair presentation of the interim results of operation,
financial position and cash flows. The results reported in these interim condensed
consolidated financial statements should not be regarded as being necessarily indicative of
results that might be expected for the full year.

The accompanying unaudited quarterly financial statements represent the consolidation of Zila,
Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc., Zila Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Zila
Biotechnology, Inc., Zila Technical, Inc., Zila, Ltd., and Zila Swab Technologies, Inc. This
information should be read in conjunction with the audited annual financial statements set forth in
the Zila, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2005. All significant
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Reclassifications  

For comparative purposes, certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to current
year presentation. See Note 3 for further discussion of reclassification of the results of
operations for the Zilactin  brand, sold in June 2005, reported as a discontinued operation.

Business Concentration  

We extend credit on a non-collateralized basis primarily to manufacturing companies and
wholesale distributors who are located in the United States, Canada and 18 other foreign countries.
We perform periodic credit evaluations of our customer s financial condition in our decision to
provide credit terms. We estimate the level of accounts receivable which will ultimately not be
paid. Historically, we have not experienced significant credit losses. For three and six month
periods ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, there were sales to two significant customers of our
Nutraceuticals Business Unit. These two customers individually represented more than 10% of
consolidated net accounts receivable at January 31, 2006 and more than 10% of consolidated net
revenues for the three and six month periods ended January 31, 2006. The accounts receivable from
these two significant customers as a percent of consolidated net accounts receivable were 49% at
January 31, 2006 and 42% at July 31, 2005. Sales to these two significant customers as a percent of
net revenues for the three and six month periods ended January 31, 2006 were 44% and 35%,
respectively, compared to 51% and 55%, respectively, for the comparable prior year periods.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

In October 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) No. 123R-2,  Practical
Accommodation to the Application of Grant Date as Defined in FASB Statement No. 123R , to provide
guidance on determining the grant date for an award as defined in SFAS No. 123R. This FSP
stipulates that assuming all other criteria in the grant date definition are met, a mutual
understanding of the key terms and conditions of an award to an individual employee is presumed to
exist upon the award s approval in accordance with the relevant corporate governance requirements,
provided that the key terms and conditions of an award (a) cannot be negotiated by the recipient
with the employer because the award is a unilateral grant, and (b) are expected to be communicated
to an individual recipient within a relatively short time period from the date of approval. We have
applied the principles set forth in this FSP upon its adoption of SFAS No. 123R.

6

Table of Contents   

In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) No. 123R-3,  Transition Election
Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards  to provide an alternative
transition election related to accounting for the tax effects of share-based payment awards to
employees to the guidance provided in Paragraph 81 of SFAS No. 123R. The guidance in this FSP is
effective on November 11, 2005. An entity may take up to one year from the later of its initial
adoption of SFAS No. 123R or the effective date of this FSP to evaluate its available transition
alternatives and make its one-time election. Until and unless an entity elects the transition
method described in this FSP, the entity should follow the transition method described in Paragraph
81 of SFAS No. 123R. Statement 123R requires a company to calculate the pool of excess tax benefits
available to absorb tax deficiencies recognized subsequent to adopting Statement 123R (termed the
 APIC Pool ), assuming the company has been following the recognition provisions prescribed by FASB
Statement No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.  We are currently evaluating the effect
of this FSP. Because of our lack of earnings history, we do not anticipate that our accounting for
the tax effects of share-based payment awards to employees will have a significant effect on
financial position or our results of operation.

2. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 

We have one active share-based stock award plan that provides for the grant of stock option
and stock awards to our employees, members of our Board of Directors and non-employee consultants
as approved by our Board of Directors. We typically grant stock option awards at prices equal to
the market value of our stock on the date of grant. These options vest over a period determined at
the time the options are granted, generally ranging from one to three years of continuous service,
with maximum terms ranging from five to ten years. Certain options provide for accelerated vesting
if there is a  change in control  of Zila (as defined in the plan).

Prior to August 1, 2005, we applied the disclosure-only provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No.123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ). In accordance
with the provisions of SFAS 123, we applied Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 ) and related interpretations in accounting for our plans
and, accordingly, did not recognize compensation expense for these plans because we issue options
at exercise prices equal to the market value of our stock on the date of grant.

Effective August 1, 2005, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
(revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123R ), which revises SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25.
SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees (including share-based payments granted to
non-employee members of a company s board of directors) to be recognized in the financial
statements based on their fair values using an option-pricing model, such as the Black-Scholes
model, at the date of grant. We elected to use the modified prospective method for adoption, which
requires compensation expense to be recorded for all unvested stock options and restricted shares
beginning in the first quarter of adoption. For all unvested options outstanding as of August 1,
2005, compensation expense previously measured under SFAS No. 123, but unrecognized, will be
recognized using the straight-line method over the remaining vesting period. For share-based
payments granted subsequent to August 1, 2005, compensation expense, based on the fair value on the
date of grant, as defined by SFAS 123R, will be recognized using the straight-line method from the
date of grant over the service period of the employee receiving the award.

SFAS 123R requires the estimation of forfeitures when recognizing compensation expense and
that this estimate of forfeitures be adjusted over the requisite service period should actual
forfeitures differ from such estimates. Changes in estimated forfeitures are recognized through a
cumulative catch-up adjustment, which is recognized in the period of change and which impacts the
amount of unamortized compensation expense to be recognized in future periods.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we recognized share-based employee compensation
expense for restricted stock awards and for stock issuances under our employee stock purchase plan.
No share-based employee compensation cost for our stock option awards has been reflected in net
income prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Results for prior periods have not been restated.

The adoption of SFAS No. 123R reduced income from continuing operations before income tax
expense for the three-month and six-month periods ended January 31, 2006 by approximately $149,000
and $231,000, respectively, and had no tax effect since our deferred tax assets are fully offset by
a valuation allowance due to our lack of earnings history. Basic and diluted net loss per common
share for the three-month and six-month periods ended January 31, 2006 would have been $0.16 and
$0.26, respectively, if we had not adopted SFAS No. 123R, compared to reported basic and diluted
net loss per common share of $0.16 and $0.27 for these periods. As of January 31, 2006, total
unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option awards was approximately $1.5 million and
the related weighted-average period over which it is expected to be recognized is approximately 2.3
years.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company presented no tax benefits of deductions
resulting from the exercise of stock options as operating cash flows in the condensed consolidated
statements of cash flows. SFAS No. 123R requires the cash flows resulting from the tax benefits
resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for those options
(excess tax benefits) to be classified as financing cash flows. Because of our lack of earnings
history, no excess tax benefit has been

7

Table of Contents   

recognized and therefore no financing cash inflow is presented in our accompanying consolidated
statements of cash flows for the six months ended January 31, 2006.

A summary of stock options activity within our share-based compensation plans and changes for
the six months ended January 31, 2006 follow (shares and aggregate intrinsic value in thousands):

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted to our employees and directors
during the six months ended January 31, 2006 was $3.64. The total intrinsic value of options
exercised during the six months ended January 31, 2006 was $68,000.

The fair value of each stock option award is estimated on the date of the grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions:

We determined that a blend of implied volatility and historical volatility is more reflective
of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than using purely historical
volatility. The expected lives of options are based on our historical data. The risk-free interest
rate is based on the U.S. treasury security rate estimated for the expected life of the options at
the date of grant. Our credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank restricts the payment of dividends and
therefore we have assumed no dividend yield.

The following table illustrates the effect on net loss and net loss per common share as if we
had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 to all outstanding stock option
awards for periods presented prior to our adoption of SFAS No. 123R (amounts in thousands, except
per share amounts):

8

Table of Contents   

3. DISCONTINUED OPERATION 

On June 27, 2005, our subsidiary, Zila Pharmaceuticals, Inc., sold substantially all of the
assets of its Zilactin  brand over-the-counter lip and oral care products to Blairex Laboratories,
Inc., an Indiana corporation. We received approximately $11.0 million in cash and we retained trade
accounts receivable of $895,000 and accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $1.0 million. The
sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of $9.8 million. The sale of Zilactin  was made as part of our
strategy of concentrating our business on preventive healthcare technologies and products focusing
on enhanced body defense and the detection of pre-disease states.

The Zilactin  product line meets the definition of a  component of an entity  and has been
accounted for as a discontinued operation under SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  The results of operations for Zilactin  have been classified as
discontinued operations in all periods presented.

The results of the Zilactin  discontinued operation are as follows (in thousands):

4. NET LOSS PER COMMON SHARE 

Since a loss from continuing operations was incurred for the three-month and six-month periods
ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, potentially dilutive shares applicable to convertible preferred
stock, options, and warrants to purchase shares of common stock were not included in the
computation of diluted net loss per common share because their effect would be antidilutive.
Potentially dilutive common shares for both the three-month and six-month periods ended January 31,
2006 were 436,000 and 440,000, respectively, and for the three-month and six-month periods ended
January 31, 2005 were 536,000, respectively. Dilutive common shares give effect to securities, such
as stock options, warrants and convertible preferred stock, which have the potential to be
exercised.

5. INVENTORIES 

Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):

6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

Intangible assets consist of the following (in thousands):

9

Table of Contents   

There was no change in the carrying amount of goodwill for the six months ended
January 31, 2006.

Intangible asset amortization expense for continuing operations for the three-month and
six-month periods ended January 31, 2006 was $358,000 and $716,000, respectively, and for the
three-month and six-month periods ended January 31, 2005 was $353,000 and $701,000, respectively.
For fiscal years 2007 through 2011, the amortization of intangibles is estimated to be $1.5 million
each year.

7. DEBT AND LEASE OBLIGATIONS 

Debt consisted of the following (in thousands):

We had short-term borrowings at January 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005 of $180,000 and
$154,000, respectively, for installments due on certain insurance policies with interest rates from
6.0% to 7.6%.

On February 6, 2004, our subsidiaries, Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc., Zila Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
Zila Biotechnology, Inc., and Zila Swab Technologies, Inc., entered into a Credit and Security
Agreement (the  Wells Fargo Agreement ) with Wells Fargo Business Credit, Inc. ( Wells Fargo ) that
provides a $10 million revolving line of credit, effective August 17, 2004. On January 27, 2006, we
entered into the fourth amendment to the Wells Fargo Agreement (the Fourth Amendment ) which, among
other things, changed: (i) the interest rate and fee structure of the Wells Fargo Agreement; and
(ii) the net worth covenants and capital expenditure limits for fiscal year ending July 31, 2006.

Borrowings on the Wells Fargo agreement bear interest equal to the prime rate plus three
percent which was 7.5% (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.) at January 31, 2006. The amount of funds available
under the Wells Fargo Agreement is based upon a percentage of the value of eligible receivables and
was $5.0 million at January 31, 2006. Obligations under the Wells Fargo Agreement are
collateralized by various assets, including, but not limited to trade accounts receivable,
inventories, equipment and intangible assets. We, as the parent company, guarantee the obligations
under the Wells Fargo Agreement.

10

Table of Contents   

Under the Wells Fargo Agreement, as amended, we are required to maintain defined minimum
levels of net worth at the end of each fiscal quarter and to limit capital expenditures to an
aggregate of $1.5 million in fiscal 2006. Our minimum net worth requirement under the Wells Fargo
Agreement varies each quarter in relation to our planned operating results. At January 31, 2006,
our net worth, as defined, was approximately $40.0 million compared to the required amount of $37.2
million. Additionally, payment of common stock dividends is restricted. The net worth and capital
expenditures covenants are established annually as of August 1. The Wells Fargo Agreement contains
a provision whereby Wells Fargo can call for immediate repayment of all amounts due under the line
of credit upon its sole determination that a  material adverse change  (as defined in the
agreement) has occurred. As a result of this provision, any borrowings under the Wells Fargo
Agreement will be classified as short-term debt. As of January 31, 2006, there have been no
borrowings under the Wells Fargo Agreement.

In December 2002, we entered into an agreement with PharmaBio Development, Inc. ( PharmaBio ),
the strategic investment group of Quintiles Transnational Corp., our contract research
organization. Under this agreement, PharmaBio invested $500,000 in us. In return for the
investment, we agreed to pay PharmaBio an amount equal to 5.0% of all net sales of the OraTest 
product in the European Union and the United States. The aggregated amount of the royalty payments
cannot exceed $1.25 million and the royalty is payable quarterly. The investment was recorded as
long-term debt and will be amortized using the effective interest method.

In April 1999, Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc. entered into a transaction with The Industrial
Development Authority of the County of Yavapai (the  Authority ) in which the Authority issued
Industrial Development Revenue Bonds (the  Bonds ). The proceeds from the Bonds were loaned to Zila
Nutraceuticals, Inc. for the construction of a new manufacturing and laboratory facility. The
initial offerings of Bonds consisted of $3.9 million Series A and $104,000 Taxable Series B Bonds
and mature in 2019. The Series B Bonds were repaid. The Bonds bear a variable interest rate that
was 3.1% at January 31, 2006. In connection with the issuance of the Bonds, the Authority required
that Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc. maintain, for the benefit of the bondholders, an irrevocable
direct-pay letter of credit to secure payment of principal and interest. We, as the parent company,
guarantee the letter of credit. Wells Fargo provides such letter of credit ( Replacement Letter of
Credit ) in conjunction with the Wells Fargo Agreement.

Under the terms of the Replacement Letter of Credit, amended by the Fourth Amendment, we
placed $517,000 in an interest bearing collateral account representing the difference between the
Replacement Letter of Credit amount and the maximum commitment amount, as defined. We are required
to place an additional $500,000 in the collateral account on March 31, 2006 if we have not
completed the sale and leaseback of the manufacturing and laboratory facility in Prescott, Arizona
by that date.

We lease facilities and equipment, some of which are required to be capitalized in accordance
with SFAS No. 13,  Accounting for Leases  ( SFAS No. 13 ). SFAS No. 13 requires the capitalization
of leases meeting certain criteria, with the related asset being recorded in property and equipment
and an offsetting amount recorded as a liability.

Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt and minimum payments under capital leases for
the fiscal years ending July 31 are as follows (in thousands):

8. INCOME TAXES 

Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between the amounts of
assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting and tax purposes. In the six months ended
January 31, 2006 and 2005, we recorded a tax benefit based on our effective tax rate and offset the
tax benefit with an increase in the deferred tax asset valuation reserve. We determined that it was
more likely than not that certain future tax benefits would not be realized. At January 31, 2006,
we have recorded a valuation allowance for our net deferred tax assets of $10.2 million, due to a
lack of earnings history.

At January 31, 2006, we had federal net operating loss carry forwards of approximately $23.8
million which expire in years 2009 through 2026.

11

Table of Contents   

9. ACCRUED LIABILITIES 

Accrued liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):

10. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION 

Supplemental cash flow information for the six months ended January 31 follows (in thousands):

11. SEGMENT INFORMATION 

Our business is organized into three major groups, all of which have distinct product lines,
brand names and are managed as autonomous business units. The following reporting segments have
been identified for purposes of applying SFAS No. 131  Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise
and Related Information  :  The Nutraceuticals Business Unit, the manufacturer and marketer of
 Advanced Protection  Ester-C  and Ester-E , proprietary, branded, highly effective forms of vitamins
C and E; The Pharmaceuticals Business Unit, a manufacturer and marketer of products to promote oral
health and prevent oral disease, including ViziLite  Plus oral lesion identification kits and
Peridex  prescription periodontal rinse, and a manufacturer of IST s plastic molded products; and
The Zila Biotechnology Business Unit, the research, development and licensing business specializing
in pre-cancer/cancer detection through our patented Zila Tolonium Chloride and OraTest 
technologies.

Information about our reported segments (with corporate representing a reconciling item) is
set forth below for each of the three months ended January 31 (in thousands):

Information about our reported segments (with corporate representing a reconciling item) is
set forth below for each of the six months ended January 31 (in thousands):

12

Table of Contents   

12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

FDA approval of the OraTest  product   

We are pursuing FDA approval of a New Drug Application ( NDA ) for our OraTest  product.
Factors that will affect the cost and timing of completion of the clinical trials include, but are
not limited to: (i) patient enrollment rates and ultimate sample size; (ii) cancer and pre-cancer
rates within the study population; (iii) compliance with the study protocol and related monitoring;
and (iv) level of funding throughout the study.

At January 31, 2006, we had approximately $448,000 of OraTest  rinse and swab inventory and
ZTC  drug substance, the active ingredient in the OraTest  product, and its related components. We
intend to realize the value of this inventory and drug substance through its consumption during the
conduct of the clinical trials, process development, toxicology studies and validation testing of
our manufacturing process. The drug substance currently has shelf lives with varying expiration
dates. Our periodic testing has indicated that the drug substance is stable and we anticipate being
able to extend the expiration dates of the entire drug substance beyond their current expiration
dates if our plans are delayed. However, no assurance can be given in this regard.

At January 31, 2006, we have (i) $2.8 million net purchased technology rights, (ii) patents
and pending patent applications of $1.7 million, and (iii) fixed assets of approximately $1.5
million (primarily related to our manufacturing facility). Should we be unable to obtain FDA
approval and generate sufficient revenues from future sales of the OraTest  products, we may have
to reduce the carrying value of these assets.

ViziLite    

We had $331,000 of ViziLite  product in inventory and approximately $1.8 million of associated
net long-lived assets as of January 31, 2006. Should we be unable to generate sufficient revenues
from future sales of ViziLite , we may have to reduce the carrying value of these assets.

Supply Arrangements    

In fiscal 2004, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc., during the ordinary
course of business entered into three-year supply agreements with two major suppliers for the
purchase of $26.7 million of ascorbic acid of which $15.6 million remains to be purchased in future
periods. Ascorbic acid is the primary ingredient in our Ester-C  products. Purchases under one of
these agreements commenced in July 2004 and with the other starting in January 2005. The agreements
provide a substantial portion of our anticipated annual requirements for ascorbic acid and will
provide important cost predictability during the terms of the agreements. Should prices fall
sharply, we would be at risk of being committed to purchase ascorbic acid at higher than market
prices. If our sales should decline significantly, we could be obligated to purchase supplies in
excess of our needs.

Subsequent to January 31, 2006, and in response to the sales that have been generated
year-to-date by Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc., we have sought and obtained delivery concessions from
our ascorbic acid providers. The concessions generally allow us to defer our required purchases by
three to six months with the terms of the agreement extended such that the agreed upon
volume levels are purchased in full over the remaining terms of the
arrangements and to reduce our commitments by $1.4 million.

Litigation   

Except as described below, we are not a party to any pending legal proceedings other than
claims that arise in the conduct of our business. While we currently believe that the ultimate
outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
condition or results of operations, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties. If an
unfavorable ruling were to

13

Table of Contents   

occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our
net income in the period in which a ruling occurs. Our estimate of the potential impact of the
following legal proceedings on our financial position and our results of operation could change in
the future.

In connection with the acquisition of patent rights in 1980, we agreed to pay to Dr. James E.
Tinnell ( Tinnell ), the inventor of one of our former treatment compositions, a royalty of 5% of
gross sales of the invention disclosed in his then pending patent application. In September 2000,
we notified Tinnell that we would no longer pay such royalties because the obligations ceased in
August 1998 when the related product patents expired and we requested reimbursement of royalties
paid since August 1998. We then filed suit in the Federal District Court requesting a declaratory
judgment that we had no royalty obligations to Tinnell and requested judgment for the overpaid
royalties. On April 22, 2004, the Court, in part, ruled in our favor, stating that our royalty
obligations to Tinnell ceased in August 1998, however, our request for reimbursement of overpaid
royalties was dismissed. Tinnell filed a notice of appeal and we have filed a notice of
cross-appeal. Briefs have been filed by both parties with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.

13.
SUBSEQUENT EVENT 

On
March 10, 2006, we obtained a commitment from a financial institution
that provides for a secured credit facility of up to $40 million. The
facility calls for $20 million to be funded no later than March 31,
2006, and the balance to be made available thereafter for specific
future corporate needs. The facility remains subject to the
completion of financial documentation and certain conditions to
closing. The initial $20.0 million funding calls for interest to accrue at a 14% annual rate and for
the Company to provide warrants equivalent to 2.5% of the
fully-diluted outstanding equity of the Company. The term of the
facility is 24 months.

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

ZILA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

COMPANY OVERVIEW 

Zila, Inc. is an innovator in preventive healthcare technologies and products, focusing on
enhanced body defense and the detection of pre-disease states. In this report,  Zila,  the
 Company,   we,   us,  or  our  refer to Zila, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Zila, Inc.
is a holding company that conducts its business operations through three Business Units:
Nutaceuticals, Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology.

The Nutraceuticals Business Unit ( Nutraceuticals ) manufactures and markets Ester-C , a
patented, branded, highly effective form of vitamin C sold by us into 20 countries around the
world, and Ester-E , a proprietary, branded, enhanced form of vitamin E.

The Pharmaceuticals Business Unit ( Pharmaceuticals ) manufactures and markets the
chemiluminescent disposable light product, ViziLite  Plus with T-Blue  630  , for
the illumination and marking of oral mucosal abnormalities, Peridex  prescription mouth rinse, and
the plastic molded products of IST.

The Biotechnology Business Unit is our research, development and licensing division
specializing in pre-cancer/cancer detection through our patented Zila Tolonium Chloride ( ZTC  )
and OraTest  technologies.

Our strategic approach to the management of our business units is driven by our commitment to
grow our Nutraceutical and Pharmaceutical businesses while we successfully complete the OraTest 
regulatory program. To that end, we are investing more aggressively in our core nutraceutical and
pharmaceutical products to drive greater growth and the required cash flows to fund the research
and development efforts being managed by the Biotechnology Business Unit as well as our Ester-E 
and ViziLite  Plus product launches. In doing so, our corporate goal is to manage the entire
portfolio of business units in a manner such that over the course of a given fiscal year, our
Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ( EBITDA ) and our management of
working capital would provide an acceptable level of cash availability to fund the completion of
the OraTest  regulatory program. We plan to continue with this goal while we seek to obtain the
requisite clearances from the United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to bring our
OraTest  product to market in the United States. Market forces, such as the market acceptance of
new products such as ViziLite  Plus and Ester-E , and other such variables and risk factors, can
and do influence our ability to accomplish this goal. Our level of research and development
activities, and the associated costs, will likely trend above our historical levels as we
accelerate our efforts to advance our OraTest  regulatory program. Accordingly, unless our other
business units produce a sufficient, higher level of EBITDA to offset these additional costs, we
will operate on a negative EBITDA basis during this period.

During the quarter ended January 31, 2006, we made progress in the furtherance of our OraTest 
regulatory program. We successfully reached agreement with the FDA on the design and size of the
new phase III clinical trial under the FDA s special protocol assessment ( SPA ) process. The
program is designed to reduce the duration and cost of the original program while improving the
potential market size by assessing the efficacy of OraTest  in selecting and staining cancerous and
pre-cancerous oral lesions in a broad population of tobacco users and alcohol drinkers.

We conducted our investigators meeting and training session and patient enrollment began in
the new Phase III regulatory program in this second fiscal quarter. We believe that we can complete
the study in approximately twelve months from the enrollment of the first patients, although no
assurances can be given in this regard. The trial is expected to require less than 4,000 patients
who generally undergo a single visit and will include an interim analysis to determine the total
number of patients required. Upon completion of the
clinical trial and assuming that the clinical endpoints have been achieved, we estimate that it
will require approximately three to six months to prepare the new drug application supplement for
submission to the FDA.

14

Table of Contents   

We introduced our ViziLite  Plus product at the October 2005 annual meeting of the American
Dental Association and commenced sales in our second fiscal quarter. ViziLite  Plus is a
combination product that includes the ViziLite  chemiluminescent device to identify abnormalities
in the oral mucosa and a TBlue  630   marking device containing ZTC  to mark the
identified lesions for further evaluation. A nearly three fold increase in ViziLite  sales led a
111% growth in net revenues in the Pharmaceuticals Business Unit across all product lines for this
quarter.

We have completed a human clinical trial and a second trial protocol is being developed in
support of our Ester-E  product. The United States market for single supplement forms of vitamin E
was negatively impacted by research work that was published during fiscal 2005 that, in some cases,
questioned the benefit of vitamin E supplementation and, in other cases, actually suggested that
vitamin E supplementation might be harmful beyond certain dosage levels. We do not believe that the
conclusions of these studies are valid as they relate to vitamin E supplementation by healthy
individuals or to Ester-E  specifically. The launch of our Ester-E  product was made more difficult
by these publications. The clinical work that we are doing in support of Ester-E  is directed to
differentiating Ester-E  from other forms of vitamin E that are currently available, as well as
seeking to demonstrate the safety and other healthful properties of the product.

The decline in vitamin E retail sales that was produced by this negative publicity continued
throughout the second quarter. Furthermore, although the retail environment for the sale of single
supplement vitamin forms improved during the quarter, factory sales of our nutraceutical products
declined by 26% compared to sales generated in our second quarter of fiscal 2005. In an effort to
address this challenging environment, we offered discounts from our standard pricing structure for
purchases at certain volume levels and we increased our commitments to both cooperative and
direct-to-consumer advertising. These efforts served to both reduce the gross profit that we
generated through nutraceutical sales and increased our marketing and selling expenses but did
provide an increase in retail sales of our product and an increase in our market share during the
second quarter.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following table summarizes our results of consolidated continuing operations and related
statistical information for the three month periods ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in
thousands):

The following table summarizes our results of consolidated continuing operations and related
statistical information for the six month periods ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in
thousands):

15

Table of Contents   

Net revenues decreased 12% to $9.6 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006
compared to revenues of $10.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005. Net revenues
decreased 7% to $19.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006 compared to revenues of
$20.8 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005. For the three and six month periods ended
January 31, 2006, increases of 111% and 103%, respectively, in net revenues in the Pharmaceuticals
Business Unit were reduced by decreases of 26% and 21% in the Nutraceuticals Business Unit. The
growth in net revenues in the Pharmaceuticals Business Unit for these periods was driven by
increases in all product lines, led by increases of nearly three fold in ViziLite  sales for the
current fiscal quarter and nearly four fold for the six-month period. The decreases for these
periods in net revenues in the Nutraceuticals Business Unit resulted primarily from a significant
decrease in sales to a large customer. We are dependent upon a few key customers and a reduction in
sales to these customers for any reason poses the risk of significant adverse impact on our
business, financial condition and results of operation. To address this situation and the
challenging vitamin supplement market, we expanded our promotional activities to stimulate sales.
During the quarter, at the retail level, sales of single supplement vitamin forms improved as did
sales of Ester-C .

Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues was 58% for the three month and six month periods
ended January 31, 2006, respectively, compared to 66% for the comparable prior year periods. Gross
profit percentages declined in both the Nutraceuticals and Pharmaceuticals Business Units largely
due to promotional discounts offered in an effort to stimulate sales.

Marketing and selling expenses as a percentage of net revenues increased to 72% and 60%,
respectively, for the three and six month periods ended January 31, 2006 compared to 45% for the
comparable prior year periods. Expenditures in the Nutraceuticals Business Unit were the primary
reason for the increase in the current quarter. Additionally, expenditures increased in the
Pharmaceuticals Business Unit in both the current quarter and year-to-date as we continue our
campaign to establish ViziLite  as the standard of care for dental offices in the detection of oral
abnormalities.

General and administrative expenses were $3.4 million, or 35% of net revenues, for the three
months ended January 31, 2006, and $6.7 million, or 35% of net revenues, for the six months ended
January 31, 2006 compared to $2.8 million, or 25% of net revenue, and $5.5 million or 26% of net
revenue, respectively for the comparable prior year periods. General and administrative expenses
increased 21% and 22%, respectively, over the three and six month periods of the prior year. These
increases are related primarily to (i) additional professional and consulting fees, (ii) the
addition of senior leadership personnel, (iii) growth in support functions for our ViziLite 
product line, and (iv) stock compensation expense recognized under SFAS No. 123R.

Research and development expenses increased 7% to $1.7 million for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 compared to $1.6 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005. Research and
development expenses of $3.6 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006 were flat with the
comparable prior year period. Research and development expenditures increased in the current
quarter as a result of the commencement of our OraTest  clinical program.

Depreciation and amortization expenses increased 12%, to $739,000 for the three months ended
January 31, 2006, from $657,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2005. Depreciation and
amortization expenses increased 10%, to $1.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006,
from $1.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005. These increases were attributable
primarily to additions of property and equipment and patents and trademarks in the Nutraceuticals
and Pharmaceuticals Business Units.

Nutraceuticals Business Unit 

Selected financial information for the Nutraceuticals Business Unit follows for the
three-month and six-month periods ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands):

16

Table of Contents   

Net revenues for the Nutraceuticals Business Unit for the three months ended January 31, 2006
were $7.2 million, decreasing 26% from the comparable prior year period. Net revenues for the six
months ended January 31, 2006 were $14.7 million, decreasing 21% from the prior year. These
decreases resulted primarily from a significant decrease in sales to one of our larger customers.
Although the retail environment for single supplement vitamin sales improved generally during the
second quarter, vitamin E sales are still well below the prior levels that existed before the
publication of the negative study mentioned above. Also, although Ester-C  continues to gain market
share at retail, as evidenced by recent A.C. Nielsen data, our factory sales of Ester-C  remained
under pressure during the second quarter. The impact of these issues on domestic Ester-C  sales was
significant. In the three and six-month periods, we offered increased discounts to stimulate sales
of our Ester-C  products. Additionally, we continued our efforts to attract new customers and
expand internationally.

New product introductions and expansion of our customer base are fundamental to our future
growth. The introduction of new products can span several years and require substantial investment
in product development and marketing resources. Within the U.S. market in this quarter, we
continued our efforts to develop or identify new technologies to expand the line of Ester products.
We also sustained our efforts to obtain the approval of the Japanese Ministry of Health so that we
may offer Ester-C  to Japanese consumers.

Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 63% for both the three-month and
six-month periods ended January 31, 2006 compared to 68% for these periods in the prior year. Our
gross profit percentage for the current year was affected by increased sales discounts offered to
our customers.

Loss from operations before taxes for the Nutraceuticals Business Unit for the three months
ended January 31, 2006, was $2.0 million, decreasing 231% from the comparable prior year period s
income from operations of $1.5 million. Loss from operations before taxes for the Nutraceuticals
Business Unit for the six months ended January 31, 2006, was $1.9 million, decreasing by 166% over
the comparable prior year period s income from operations of $2.9 million. The sales decrease, the
gross profit factors described above, and increased marketing and selling expenses that we believe
served to grow our sales of our products at retail are the primary reasons for these decreases.

Pharmaceuticals Business Unit 

Selected financial information for the Pharmaceuticals Business Unit follows for the
three-month and six-month periods ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands):

Net revenues for the Pharmaceuticals Business Unit increased 111% to $2.4 million for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 compared to net revenues of $1.1 million for the comparable
prior year period. Net revenues increased 103% to $4.6 million for the six months ended January 31,
2006 compared to net revenues of $2.3 million for the comparable prior year period. The increase in
net revenues in the Pharmaceuticals Business Unit was driven by increases in all product lines, led
by a nearly three fold increase in ViziLite  sales for the quarter and a four fold increase in the
fiscal year to date net revenues. We continue to aggressively pursue our strategy to establish
ViziLite  as the standard of care for oral abnormality screening through education of the dental
professional and through widened distribution. Additionally, IST s net revenues for the three
months ended January 31, 2006 were $739,000, an increase of 545% from the prior year period of
$115,000. IST s net revenues for the six months ended January 31, 2006 were $1.3 million, an
increase of 322% from the comparable prior year period of $309,000. The increases in net revenues
resulted from our efforts to revitalize this business after the loss of IST s major customer in
March 2004.

Gross profit as a percent of net revenues decreased to 42% for the three months ended January
31, 2006 compared to 50% for the comparable prior year period. The decrease in the gross profit
between these periods resulted from increased discounts and incentives
offered as we depleted ViziLite  inventories as we introduced ViziLite  Plus into new market areas.
Gross profit as a percent of net revenues was 44% for the six-month periods ended January 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively. Improvements in the gross profit percent for this six-month period for the
Peridex  and IST product lines was offset by increased ViziLite  sales incentives. We anticipate
that IST s gross profit percentage will continue to increase as we increase capacity utilization at
that operation.

17

Table of Contents   

Net loss before income taxes for the Pharmaceuticals Business Unit for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 was $1.4 million compared to net loss of $730,000 in the comparable prior year
period, a decline of 96%. Net loss before income taxes for the Pharmaceuticals Business Unit for
the six months ended January 31, 2006 was $2.4 million compared to net loss of $1.5 million in the
comparable prior year period, a decline of 67%. The increased net loss for the three and six-month
periods is attributable to ViziLite . As we execute our strategy for ViziLite  and for our launch
of ViziLite  Plus with T-Blue  630  , we have increased our selling and marketing
expenditures and general and administrative expenses to support these activities.

Biotechnology Business Unit 

Selected financial information for the Biotechnology Business Unit follows for the three-month
and six-month periods ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands):

Research and development expenses were $1.6 million in the three months ended January 31,
2006, an increase of 3% over the prior year. Research and development expenses were $3.3 million
in the six months ended January 31, 2006, a decrease of 4% over the prior year. Current quarter
expenses principally reflect our efforts to prepare for and launch the new clinical trial.
Year-to-date expenses principally reflect the commencement of our Oratest  clinical program and our
efforts to re-commission our manufacturing facility.

Net loss before income taxes for the Biotechnology Business Unit for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 was $2.1 million, an increase of 9% over the comparable prior year period
resulting from increased research and development expenses as described above. Net loss before
income taxes for the six months ended January 31, 2006 was $4.2 million, approximately the same
level as the comparable prior year period.

Inflation and Seasonality 

Inflation has had no material effect that is unique or particular to the operations or
financial condition of our businesses. Our consolidated operations are not considered seasonal in
nature.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Our liquidity needs arise from working capital requirements, the funding of our OraTest 
regulatory program and the launch of our new products, ViziLite  Plus and Ester-E , and debt
service. We have met these cash requirements through our cash and cash equivalents, cash from
operations and working capital management, the sale of non-core assets and proceeds from the
issuance of common stock under our employee stock option and stock purchase programs. We also have
a $10.0 million revolving credit facility through a Credit and Security Agreement with Wells Fargo,
with borrowing base eligibility, based upon a percentage of the value of eligible receivables, of
$5.0 million at January 31, 2006. At January 31, 2006, we had no borrowings outstanding under this
facility.

Selected cash flow and working capital information is set forth in the table below (dollars in
thousands):

At January 31, 2006, our primary sources of liquidity included cash and cash equivalents of
approximately $5.1 million and our line of credit (discussed below) compared to approximately $12.9
million at July 31, 2005. Our working capital was approximately $11.1 million at January 31, 2006
compared to approximately $22.8 million at July 31, 2005.

18

Table of Contents   

Nearly all of our revenues are derived from sales of Ester-C , Peridex , and ViziLite . In
generating these revenues we are dependent on a few key customers. A loss of any of our key
customers, a reduction in sales to such key customers for any reason, or a failure to fulfill their
financial or other obligations due to us could have a material adverse affect on our business,
financial condition and results of operation, and the availability of cash under our line of
credit. Additionally, the development of our products may require the commitment of substantial
resources to conduct the time-consuming research and development, clinical studies and regulatory
activities necessary to bring any potential product to market and to establish production,
marketing and sales capabilities. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds for purposes
that cannot be quantified and we may seek such additional funding through collaborative
arrangements. If we are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be
required to (i) delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and product development
programs, (ii) to limit the marketing of our products or (iii) to license to third parties the
rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop and market
ourselves.

In an effort to infuse additional liquidity into the company, we have commenced a process to
sell and leaseback our manufacturing and laboratory facility in Prescott, Arizona, which we now
own. We believe that we can sell the building, retire the outstanding debt that is associated with
it, pay commissions and other selling related costs and net approximately $4.0 million of pre-tax
cash proceeds as a result. Further, we believe that market conditions are such that we can
successfully negotiate a multi-year lease of the facility with acceptable terms. Finally, we
believe that these transactions can be consummated within our current
fiscal year, although no
assurances can be given with respect to this matter. In the event that we do not complete the sale
and leaseback by March 31, 2006, we will be required to place an additional $500,000 in the
collateral account of the Replacement Letter of Credit discussed in Note 7 of our consolidated
financial statements.

Further, on March 10, 2006, we obtained a commitment from a financial
institution that provides for a secured credit facility of up to $40
million. The facility calls for $20 million to be funded no later
than March 31, 2006, and the balance to be made available thereafter
for specific future corporate needs. The facility remains
subject to the completion of final documentation and certain
conditions to closing. The initial $20.0 million funding calls for interest to accrue at a 14% annual
rate and for the Company to provide warrants equivalent to 2.5% of
the fully-diluted outstanding equity of the Company. The term of the
facility is 24 months.

Operating Activities  

Net cash used in operating activities was $6.6 million during the six months ended January 31,
2006 compared to $3.7 million during the same period last year. The increase in net cash used in
operating activities during this period resulted primarily from the funding of our operating loss
and the increase in inventory at our Nutraceuticals Business Unit arising from lower than
anticipated sales levels. These uses were offset by (i) non-cash items related primarily to
depreciation and amortization and stock based compensation expense, (ii) a decrease in accounts
receivable of $2.0 million and (iii) an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of
$4.0 million.

Investing Activities  

Net cash used in investing activities during the six months ended January 31, 2006 was $1.2
million compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $3.2 million during the comparable
period of fiscal 2005. Cash was used for capital asset purchases and expenditures for patents and
trademarks. Capital expenditures for property and equipment were $899,000 for the six months ended
January 31, 2006 compared to $425,000 for the six months ended January 31, 2005. Our capital
expenditures were directed toward investments in (i) an improved Ester-C  production and
development capability at the Nutraceuticals Business Unit, and (ii) re-commissioning of the ZTC 
facility in the Biotechnology Business Unit.

Financing Activities  

Net cash used in financing activities for the six months ended January 31, 2006 was $2,000
compared to cash provided by financing activities of $197,000 during the comparable period of
fiscal 2005. Proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan and
exercised stock options are the primary source of the cash provided in both years. Short-term
borrowings, primarily from insurance premium financing, offset principal payments on long-term debt
and dividends paid on our outstanding preferred stock.

Bank Financing  

On February 6, 2004, our subsidiaries, Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc., Zila Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
Zila Biotechnology, Inc., and Zila Swab Technologies, Inc., entered into a Credit and Security
Agreement (the  Wells Fargo Agreement ) with Wells Fargo Business Credit, Inc. ( Wells Fargo ) that
provides a $10 million revolving line of credit, effective August 17, 2004. Borrowings bear
interest equal to the prime rate plus three percent which was 7.5% (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.) at
January 31, 2006. The amount of funds available under the Wells Fargo Agreement is based upon a
percentage of the value of eligible receivables and was $5.0 million at January 31, 2006.
Obligations under the Wells Fargo Agreement are collateralized by various assets, including, but
not limited to trade
accounts receivable, inventories, equipment and intangible assets. We, as the parent company,
guarantee the obligations under the Wells Fargo Agreement.

Under the Wells Fargo Agreement, we are required to maintain defined minimum levels of net
worth at the end of each fiscal quarter and to limit capital expenditures to $1.5 million in fiscal
2006. Our minimum net worth requirement under the Wells Fargo

19

Table of Contents   

Agreement varies each quarter in
relation to our planned operating results. At January 31, 2006, our net worth, as defined, was
$40.0 million compared to the required amount of $37.2 million. Additionally, payment of common
stock dividends is restricted. The net worth and capital expenditures covenants are established
annually as of August 1 and were amended on January 27, 2006, by the fourth amendment to the Wells
Fargo Agreement, to the capital expenditures, interest rates, borrowing base eligibility and net
worth amounts described above. The Wells Fargo Agreement contains a provision whereby Wells Fargo
can call for immediate repayment of all amounts due under the line of credit upon its sole
determination that a  material adverse change  (as defined in the agreement) has occurred. As a
result of this provision, any borrowings under the Wells Fargo Agreement will be classified as
short-term debt. As of January 31, 2006, there have been no borrowings under the Wells Fargo
Agreement.

PharmaBio Investment  

In December 2002, we entered into an agreement with PharmaBio Development, Inc. ( PharmaBio ),
the strategic investment group of Quintiles Transnational Corp., our contract research
organization. Under this agreement, PharmaBio invested $500,000 in us. In return for the
investment, we agreed to pay PharmaBio an amount equal to 5.0% of all net sales of the OraTest 
product in the European Union and the United States. The aggregated amount of the royalty payments
cannot exceed $1.25 million and the royalty is payable quarterly. The investment was recorded as
long-term debt and will be amortized using the effective interest method.

Long-Term Debt Financing  

In April 1999, Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc. entered into a transaction with The Industrial
Development Authority of the County of Yavapai (the  Authority ) in which the Authority issued
Industrial Development Revenue Bonds (the  Bonds ). The proceeds from the Bonds were loaned to Zila
Nutraceuticals, Inc. for the construction of a new manufacturing and laboratory facility. The
initial offerings of Bonds consisted of $3.9 million Series A and $104,000 Taxable Series B Bonds
and mature in 2019. The Series B Bonds were repaid. The Bonds bear a variable interest rate that
was 3.1% at January 31, 2006. In connection with the issuance of the Bonds, the Authority required
that Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc. maintain, for the benefit of the bondholders, an irrevocable
direct-pay letter of credit to secure payment of principal and interest. We, as the parent company,
guarantee the letter of credit. Wells Fargo provides such letter of credit ( Replacement Letter of
Credit ) in conjunction with the Wells Fargo Agreement.

Under the terms of the Replacement Letter of Credit, on February 6, 2004, and as amended on
January 27, 2006 in connection with the fourth amendment to the Wells Fargo Agreement, we placed
$517,000 in an interest bearing collateral account representing the difference between the
Replacement Letter of Credit amount and the maximum commitment amount, as defined. We are required
to place an additional $500,000 in the collateral account on March 31, 2006 if we have not
completed the sale and leaseback of the manufacturing and laboratory facility in Prescott, Arizona
by that date.

DISCLOSURES ABOUT CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATION AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS 

Our estimates as to future contractual obligations have not materially changed as to the
disclosure included under the subheading  Contractual Obligations  in Part II, Item 7,
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  of our
Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ending July 31, 2005.

SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

There are several accounting policies that we believe are significant to the presentation of
our consolidated financial statements and require management s most difficult, complex or
subjective judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe our most critical
accounting policies are as follows:

Revenue Recognition      Revenue from sales of products is recognized when earned. That
is, when the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, which is considered
to have occurred when delivery to the designated location or carrier has occurred, then revenue is
recognized. Cash discounts, sales incentives, and returns are estimated and recognized as a
reduction of revenue at the time of sale based upon historical activity and current customer
commitments. We evaluate these estimates on a quarterly basis and revise them as necessary.

We provide for allowances for doubtful accounts and sales returns based on historical
experience and a review of our receivables. Receivables are presented net of allowances for
doubtful accounts and for sales returns of $200,000 at January 31, 2006 and $150,000 at July 31,
2005. We evaluate these estimates on a quarterly basis and revise them as necessary.

On occasion, we enter into arrangements to license our technology on specifically approved
products. For those arrangements where we have continuing involvement with the licensee,
nonrefundable, upfront license fees are recognized systematically as they are earned over the life
of the agreement. Fees associated with substantive, at risk, performance milestones are recognized
as revenue upon their completion, as defined in the respective agreements. For perpetual licenses
or manufacturing rights agreements, where:

20

Table of Contents   

(i) we have no further continuing involvement with the
licensee; (ii) the fees are nonrefundable; and (iii) the fees are not a prepayment of future
royalties, we recognize the fees as revenue at the time the arrangement becomes effective. The
assessment of existence or extent of continuing involvement requires significant judgment and
analysis of the contractual requirements and other factors relating to the business relationship
between the parties.

Use of Estimates      The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America necessarily requires that
we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, as
well as disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. The accounting estimates
used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements will change as new events occur,
as more experience is acquired, as additional information is obtained and as our operating
environment changes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Significant estimates include: (i) useful lives of intangibles; (ii) impairment analyses;
(iii) depreciable lives of assets; (iv) income tax valuation allowances; (v) contingency and
litigation reserves; (vi) inventory valuation; and (vii) allowances for accounts receivable, cash
discounts, sales incentives and sales returns.

We make changes in estimates as appropriate, and as we become aware of circumstances
surrounding those estimates. Such changes and refinements in estimation methodologies are reflected
in reported results of operations in the period in which the changes are made and, if material,
their effects are disclosed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our impairment analyses include significant estimates with respect to cash flows and fair
values. The factors that affect these estimates include the following:

The cash flows used to measure long-lived assets related to the OraTest  product are dependent
upon obtaining FDA approval and generating sufficient revenues from sales of the OraTest  product.
The rigorous clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA and
equivalent foreign authorities before any new drug can be marketed by us can take a number of years
and require the expenditure of substantial resources. Obtaining such approvals and completing such
testing is a costly and time-consuming process, and approval may not be ultimately obtained. The
length of the FDA review period varies considerably, as does the amount of clinical data required
to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a specific product. Net long-lived assets related to the
OraTest  product as of January 31, 2006 of $6.0 million have been capitalized.

The cash flows used to measure long-lived assets related to the ViziLite  products are
dependent upon our ability to properly market the products to a sufficient number of dentists so
they become integrated within their practice. ViziLite  is a chemiluminescent light technology used
in combination with traditional oral screening to increase identification, evaluation and
monitoring of oral mucosal abnormalities. Achieving our sales goals requires significant training
and education about the products  attributes to the dental professionals. As a result of
organizational and sales strategy changes in 2003 and 2004, we have revised our business model with
current sales and costs assumptions. We have added significant marketing, sales and educational
costs targeted towards achieving market acceptance within a reasonable timeframe. Net long-lived
assets related to the ViziLite  products as of January 31, 2006 of $1.8 million have been
capitalized.

Goodwill, Intangibles and Other Long-Lived Assets      We have made acquisitions of
products and businesses that include goodwill, license agreements, patents and trademarks, product
rights and other intangible and long-lived assets. We assess the impairment of goodwill,
intangibles and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying value of any of these assets may not be recoverable. Such events or circumstances
might include a significant decline in market share and/or significant negative industry or
economic trends, a significant decline in profits and/or significant underperformance relative to
expected historical or projected operating results, significant changes in the manner of our use of
the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business, rapid changes in technology,
significant litigation or other items. In evaluating the recoverability of goodwill, intangibles
and other long-lived assets, our policy is to compare the carrying amounts of such assets with the
estimated undiscounted future operating cash flows. If we have changes in events or circumstances,
including reductions in anticipated cash flows generated by our operations or determinations to
divest of certain assets, certain assets could be impaired which would result in a charge to
earnings.

In accordance with SFAS No. 142    Goodwill and Other Intangibles,  our policy is to review
the carrying amounts of goodwill and certain intangible assets with indefinite lives at least
annually as of May 1 or, as described above, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of the asset may be impaired.

The following is a summary of the significant components of our goodwill and intangible assets
and our impairment methodology for each.

Zila Pharmaceuticals Goodwill    Goodwill is related to the Peridex  product
which was acquired from Procter   Gamble in

21

Table of Contents   

November 1997 and to the IST
acquisition in February 2001. As part of the implementation for SFAS No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  on August 1, 2002, the Company retained
an independent financial advisor who compared the fair values and corresponding
carrying values of the Peridex  and IST assets as of the adoption date for SFAS
No. 142. Based upon the financial advisor s findings, we determined that
approximately $3.0 million of the Peridex  goodwill and the entire $1.1 million
of IST goodwill was impaired thus reducing goodwill to approximately $4.1
million. This transitional impairment charge of $4.1 million was recorded as a
change in accounting principle and retroactively restated to August 1, 2002,
the beginning of our fiscal year. We review the carrying value of Zila
Pharmaceuticals goodwill at least annually as of May 1 or, as described above,
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
of the asset may be impaired.

Zila Nutraceuticals Goodwill    Goodwill and trademarks totaling approximately
$10.3 million (net of accumulated amortization of $4.6 million) are related to
the Ester-C  group of products. These assets were acquired by merger in 1997
and are combined for purposes of testing for impairment. We review the carrying
value of Zila Nutraceuticals goodwill at least annually as of May 1 or, as
described above, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of the asset may be impaired.

OraTest     The purchase of CTM eliminated our obligation to pay royalties to
CTM on future sales of the OraTest  product. The recoverability of the $2.8
million net purchased technology rights is dependent upon obtaining FDA
approval and generating sufficient revenues from future sales of the OraTest 
products. For purposes of testing recoverability, the following are grouped
with purchased technology rights: (i) fixed assets of approximately $1.5
million (primarily related to our manufacturing facility); (ii) patents and
pending patent applications of $1.7 million; and (iii) $448,000 of OraTest 
clinical rinse and swab inventory, ZTC  drug substance, the active ingredient
in the OraTest  product, and its related components. We have prepared a
probability-weighted analysis of potential future cash flows under various
possible outcomes. Significant assumptions in the analysis include the expected
date and overall likelihood of FDA approval, cost of the remaining regulatory
program, cost of the marketing roll out, future net cash flows associated with
sales of the products and the probabilities assigned to each possible outcome.
The assumptions included in the analysis are updated whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.

Income Taxes          At January 31, 2006, we had net operating loss ( NOL ) carryforwards
for federal tax purposes of approximately $23.8 million that expire in years 2009 through 2026. Our
ability to utilize the federal NOL carry forwards may be impaired if we continue to incur operating
losses. Valuation allowances were provided for the entire amount of net deferred tax assets.

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 

This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ) and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ) and are subject to the safe
harbors created under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements are
identified by words such as  believe,   anticipate,   expect,   estimate,   intend,   plan, 
 project,   will,   may  and variations of such words and similar expressions. In addition, any
statements that refer to expectations, projections, plans, objectives, goals, strategies or other
characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These
forward-looking statements speak only as of the date stated and we do not undertake any obligation
to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any
expected results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements will not be realized.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are
reasonable, these expectations may not prove to be correct or we may not achieve the financial
results, savings or other benefits anticipated in the forward-looking statements. These
forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of our senior
management and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which may be beyond our
control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the
forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results or conditions to differ from
those anticipated by these and other forward-looking statements are set forth below. Our business,
financial condition or results of operations could also be adversely affected by other factors
besides those listed here. However, these are the risks our management currently believes are
material.

Obtaining regulatory approvals for our products is costly and full of uncertainty.   

We may be unable to obtain FDA approval, or to establish a market, for OraTest  in the United States.   

We are dependent on a few key products and our growth is dependent on the development of new products.   

We are dependent on a few key customers.   

We are dependent on our senior management and other key personnel.   

We and our products are subject to regulatory oversight that could substantially interfere with our ability to do business.  

22

Table of Contents   

We are at risk with respect to product liability claims.   

We face significant competition that could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition.   

If we fail to secure and then enforce patents and other intellectual property rights underlying our technologies, or if
the use of our technology is determined to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our business could be
harmed.   

We require certain raw materials for our manufacturing processes that may only be acquired through limited sources.   

If we are unable to obtain adequate funds, we may not be able to develop and market our present and potential products.   

In the past, we have experienced volatility in the market price of our common stock and we may experience such volatility
in the future.   

Our Board of Directors may unilaterally issue Preferred Stock which could dilute our ownership and prevent or delay a
change in our control.   

If we use environmentally hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we may be liable for damages.   

We have, in the past, received minor deficiencies from regulatory agencies related to our manufacturing facilities.   

You are advised to review any future disclosures contained in the reports that we file with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
July, 31, 2005 contains a more detailed discussion of various risks relating to our business that
could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.

EBITDA 

The following discussion includes a presentation of EBITDA, which is utilized by management as
one measure of the performance of our business units. We define  EBITDA  as earnings (loss) before
interest, taxes (income), depreciation and amortization. Other companies may define such term
differently. We consider EBITDA to be a meaningful measure of our ongoing operations that assists
us in assessing our ability to fund our regulatory program and debt service and to finance the
growth of our core businesses. We also believe that this non-GAAP financial measure is useful to
provide stockholders and potential investors transparency with respect to supplemental information
used by management in its financial and operational decision making.

Although we use EBITDA as a financial measure to assess the performance of our business, we do
not use EBITDA alone because it does not consider certain material costs, expenses and other items
necessary to operate our business. These items include debt service costs and non-cash depreciation
and amortization expense associated with long-lived assets. Because EBITDA does not consider these
items, a stockholder, potential investor or other user of our financial information should also
consider net income as an important measure of our financial performance in that it provides a more
complete measure of our performance.

Reconciliation of GAAP Measures to Non-GAAP Measures 
Unaudited 
(in thousands) 

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

In October 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) No. 123R-2,  Practical
Accommodation to the Application of Grant Date as Defined in FASB Statement No. 123R , to provide
guidance on determining the grant date for an award as defined in SFAS No. 123R. This FSP
stipulates that assuming all other criteria in the grant date definition are met, a mutual
understanding of the key terms and conditions of an award to an individual employee is presumed to
exist upon the award s approval in accordance with the relevant corporate governance requirements,
provided that the key terms and conditions of an award (a) cannot be negotiated by the

23

Table of Contents   

recipient
with the employer because the award is a unilateral grant, and (b) are expected to be communicated
to an individual recipient within a relatively short time period from the date of approval. We have
applied the principles set forth in this FSP upon adoption of SFAS No. 123R.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) No. 123R-3,  Transition Election
Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards,  to provide an alternative
transition election related to accounting for the tax effects of share-based payment awards to
employees to the guidance provided in Paragraph 81 of SFAS No. 123R. The guidance in this FSP is
effective on November 11, 2005. An entity may take up to one year from the later of its initial
adoption of SFAS No. 123R or the effective date of this FASP to evaluate its available transition
alternatives and make its one-time election. Until and unless an entity elects the transition
method described in this FSP, the entity should follow the transition method described in Paragraph
81 of SFAS No. 123R. Statement 123R requires a company to calculate the pool of excess tax benefits
available to absorb tax deficiencies recognized subsequent to adopting Statement 123R (termed the
 APIC Pool ), assuming the company had been following the recognition provisions prescribed by FASB
Statement No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.  We are currently evaluating the effect
of this FSP. Because of our lack of earnings history, we do not anticipate that our accounting for
the tax effects of share-based payment awards to employees will have a significant effect on
financial position or our results of operation.

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 

We are exposed to market risks primarily from interest rates and from changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, as well as changes in our credit standing, all from market sensitive
instruments entered into for other than trading purposes. In addition, a market risk exists
associated with the cost of ascorbic acid, a raw material used in our Nutraceuticals Business Unit.
In fiscal 2004 we executed extended-term supply contracts to mitigate the risk of increased cost of
ascorbic acid. However, if ascorbic acid prices decline sharply, we would be at risk of being
committed to purchase ascorbic acid at higher than market prices. Additionally, if our sales were
to significantly decline, we would be obligated to purchase ascorbic acid in excess of our needs.

At January 31, 2006, we had a revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo Business Credit with a
variable interest rate equal to the prime rate announced by Wells Fargo Bank, NA. Such rate was at
7.5% on January 31, 2006. At January 31, 2006, no borrowings were outstanding under this line of
credit. The impact of a 10% proportional increase in average interest rates would not be expected
to have a material effect since average outstanding balances under our revolving credit facility
are not expected to be significant. We also have long-term debt associated with the Industrial
Development Revenue Bonds ( Bonds ) that carries a variable interest rate. The rate is set weekly
by JP Morgan Chase Bank and fluctuates based on market conditions and was 3.1% per annum at January
31, 2006. A 10% proportional increase in the average interest rate on the bonds would increase
annual interest expense by less than $10,000.

We have certain minor exposures to foreign currency risk through our subsidiaries that conduct
business in Canada and Europe and through a subsidiary that uses the British pound as its
functional currency. Additionally, under one of our ascorbic acid supply agreements, we are subject
to defined pricing adjustments based on fluctuations in a foreign currency. We believe that such
exposure does not present a significant risk due to the limited number of transactions and/or
accounts denominated in foreign currency.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures. 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.  

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)
under the Exchange Act that are designed: (i) to ensure that information required to be disclosed
in the reports filed or submitted by us under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules
and forms and (ii) to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to management,
including our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to
allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Our management, with the participation of our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the
end of the period covered by this quarterly report, and, based on that evaluation, our President
and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) are effective.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  .

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during the most recent fiscal quarter
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.

24

Table of Contents   

Part II   Other Information 

Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 

Except as described in Part I. Item 3,   Legal Proceedings,   in our Annual Report on Form 10-K
for our fiscal year ended July 31, 2005, as of January 31, 2006, we were not a party to any pending
legal proceedings other than claims that arise in the conduct of our business. As of January 31,
2006, we do not believe there are any material updates to the legal proceedings included in our
most recent Form 10-K. While we currently believe that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings
will not have a materiel adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of
operations, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties. If an unfavorable ruling were to
occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our net income in the period in
which, a ruling occurs. Our estimate of the potential impact of these legal proceedings on our
financial position and our results of operation could change in the future.

Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

As of January 31, 2006, we do not believe there are any material updates to the risk factors
included in our most recent form 10-K.

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Securities and Use of Proceeds. 

Not Applicable

Item 3. Defaults upon Senior Securities. 

Not Applicable

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders .

The Company held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders in Phoenix, Arizona on December 15, 2005.
A total of 43,267,984 shares of common stock, or 94% of the outstanding shares, were represented in
person or by proxy. The results of the matters voted upon at the Annual Meeting are:

(1) Election of Directors:

The Board of Directors is comprised of seven directors who are elected to serve until the next
annual meeting of shareholders and until their successors are elected or qualified.

(2) Ratification of the appointment of BDO Seidman, LLP as our Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2006:

The foregoing matters are described in more detail in our Definitive Proxy Statement dated
November 7, 2005.

Item 5. Other Information. 

Not Applicable

25

Table of Contents   

Item 6. Exhibits. 

Exhibit Number  
       
      Description  

10.1(A)

Fourth Amendment to Credit and Security Agreement and Amendment to Reimbursement Agreement
dated January 27, 2006 between Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc., Zila Biotechnology, Inc., Zila
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Zila Swab Technologies, Inc., and Wells Fargo Bank, National
Association

31.1*

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 (filed herewith)

31.2*

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 (filed herewith)

32.1**

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(furnished herewith)

32.2**

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(furnished herewith)

*

Filed herewith

**

Furnished herewith

(A)

Incorporated by reference to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 2, 2006

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

ZILA, INC. 

(Registrant) 

Date:

March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ Andrew A. Stevens 

Andrew A. Stevens 

Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer 

(Principal Financial Officer)  

26

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO EXHIBITS 

Exhibit Number 
       
     Description 

10.1(A)

Fourth Amendment to Credit and Security Agreement and Amendment to Reimbursement Agreement dated
January 27, 2006 between Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc., Zila Biotechnology, Inc., Zila Pharmaceuticals,
Inc., Zila Swab Technologies, Inc., and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association

31.1*

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002

31.2*

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002

32.1**

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002

32.2**

Certification
of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002

*

Filed herewith

**

Furnished herewith

(A)

Incorporated by reference to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 2, 2006

27

<EX-31.1>
 2
 p72012exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

Certification of the Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 

I, Douglas D. Burkett, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2006 of Zila, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report for the quarter ended January 31, 2006 does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this quarterly report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting;

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial reporting.

/s/ Douglas D. Burkett, Ph. D.

Douglas D. Burkett, Ph. D.

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer) 

Date: March 13, 2006

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 p72012exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

Certification of the Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 

I, Andrew A. Stevens, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2006 of Zila, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report for the quarter ended January 31, 2006 does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this quarterly report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f))for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting;

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial reporting.

/s/ Andrew A. Stevens

Andrew A. Stevens

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer) 

Date: March 13, 2006

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 p72012exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

This certification is not deemed filed pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and does not constitute a part of the Quarterly Report of Zila, Inc. (the  Company ) for
the period ended January 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ).

In connection with the Report of the Company, I, Douglas D. Burkett, President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant
to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ Douglas D. Burkett, Ph.D.

Douglas D. Burkett, Ph.D.

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 13, 2006

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 p72012exv32w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

This certification is not deemed filed pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and does not constitute a part of the Quarterly Report of Zila, Inc. (the  Company ) for
the period ended January 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ).

In connection with the Report of the Company, I, Andrew A. Stevens, Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant
to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ Andrew A. Stevens

Andrew A. Stevens

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Date: March 13, 2006

</EX-32.2>

