<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060314_10-Q_edgar_data_1111721_0000950137-06-002991_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>316098</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>93332</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>136341</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>17</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-002991.hdr.sgml : 20060314
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060314154215
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-002991
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060314
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060314

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			STRATOS INTERNATIONAL INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001111721
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				364360035
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0405

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-30869
		FILM NUMBER:		06685039

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		7444 WEST WILSON AVENUE
		CITY:			CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60656
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7088679600

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STRATOS LIGHTWAVE INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20000412

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CPFD/9GvFJgTpdrTRYGRs4BMEF/DsdUp9TDOMjhC3uYZgLiLBwmg9gAyYniL5u2o
 fceCZ7yuJxrwWEy7Kyy8TA==

 0000950137-06-002991.txt : 20060314

10-Q
 1
 c03423e10vq.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT

e10vq 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

(Mark One)

For the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006

OR

For the transition period from                        to                       

Commission file number 0-30869 

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

(708) 867-9600 
(Registrant s Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

Not Applicable 
  (Former Name, Former Address and Former Fiscal Year, if Changed Since Last Report) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or
a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer     
        Accelerated filer     
        Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).

Yes     No    

As of February 24, 2006, there were 14,523,910 shares of the registrant s common stock, par value
$0.01 per share, outstanding.

Table of Contents   

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

INDEX 

Page 

PART I FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1. Financial Statements 

3 

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 31, 2006 (unaudited)
and April 30, 2005 

3 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months and
nine months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (unaudited) 

4 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
nine months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (unaudited) 

5 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss for the three
months and nine months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (unaudited) 

6 

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
as of January 31, 2006 (unaudited) 

7 

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations 

15 

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

24 

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 

24 

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1. Legal Proceedings 

25 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

26 

Item 6. Exhibits 

35 

SIGNATURES 

38 

Certification    
     Certification    
     Certification    
     Certification    

2

Table of Contents   

PART I 

FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1. Financial Statements. 

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
(in thousands) 

See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements

3

Table of Contents   

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
(Unaudited) 
(in thousands, except per share amounts) 

See
notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

4

Table of Contents   

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(Unaudited) 
(in thousands) 

See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

5

Table of Contents   

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 
(Unaudited) 
(in thousands) 

See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

6

Table of Contents   

STRATOS
INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 
JANUARY 31, 2006 
(all amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

1. Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and
with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not
include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles for complete financial statements. Certain items included in these statements are based
on management s estimates. In our opinion, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring
accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Operating results for
the nine-month period ended January 31, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may
be expected for the fiscal year ending April 30, 2006. This unaudited quarterly information should
be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the
fiscal year ended April 30, 2005 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period
presentation.

2. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154  Accounting for Changes and Error Corrections.  The
pronouncement significantly changes the requirements for accounting and reporting a change in
accounting principal. It replaces APB-20 and FAS-3 and applies to all voluntary changes in
accounting principal as well as changes required by an accounting pronouncement when that
pronouncement does not specify a transition method. The effective date of FAS 154 is for
accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2005. We believe that we are in compliance with all accounting changes and there are no
corrections of errors needed.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R), a revision to SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation.  This standard requires us to measure the cost of employee services
received in exchange for equity awards based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The cost
will be recognized as compensation expense over the vesting period of the awards. Stratos is
required to adopt SFAS No. 123(R) at the beginning of fiscal 2007. We anticipate that we will
adopt the prospective method of transition under the statement. Under this method, we will begin
recognizing compensation cost for equity based compensation for all new or modified grants after
the date of adoption. In addition, we will recognize the unvested portion of the grant date fair
value of awards issued prior to adoption based on the fair values
previously calculated for disclosure purposes. We have not presently determined the effect of
the adoption of the statement on our consolidated financial statements.

7

Table of Contents   

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 
JANUARY 31, 2006 
(all amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs . SFAS No. 151 requires that
abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and spoilage, be charged to
expense in the period they are incurred rather than capitalized as a component of inventory costs.
SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred in fiscal periods beginning after June 15,
2005. The adoption of this standard may result in higher costs in periods where production levels
are lower than normal ranges of production. Because actual future production levels are subject to
many factors, including demand for our products, we cannot presently determine if the adoption of
SFAS No. 151 will have a material impact on future results of operations.

3. Stock-Based Compensation 

In the first quarter of fiscal 2004, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.  The provisions of SFAS No. 148
did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. We will
continue to account for stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method described
in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and
related interpretations. All stock options are granted at market price and thus no compensation
expense is recorded in our results of operations. Under SFAS No. 148, we are required to report
quarterly and year to date pro forma net loss and loss per share as if we had
accounted for stock options plans under the fair value method. The following table shows the
pro forma net loss and loss per share as if we had recorded the fair value of stock options as

compensation expense:

No stock options were issued during the nine months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005.

8

Table of Contents   

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 
JANUARY 31, 2006 
(all amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

4. Loss Per Share 

The effect of outstanding stock options and unvested restricted stock awards have not been
considered in the determination of diluted weighted average shares outstanding because their effect
would be antidilutive.

5. Intangible Assets 

Amortizable intangible assets were comprised of the following:

Amortization for intangible assets was $0.3 million and $1.0 million for the three and
nine months ended January 31, 2006.

9

Table of Contents   

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 
JANUARY 31, 2006 
(all amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

6. Assets Held For Sale 

Assets held for sale at January 31, 2006 are comprised of real property and machinery and
equipment that are no longer in use. We are actively marketing those assets for sale, and we expect
to sell those assets within a one-year period. We used independent appraisals or realtors  letters
of opinion of value to determine the estimated net realizable value of assets held for sale. During
the nine-month period in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 we received $0.1 million and $1.5 million
respectively in cash for the sale of assets held for sale.

7. Restructuring Charges 

During the current and prior fiscal years, we recorded restructuring charges related to the
consolidation and elimination of various operating units. These charges included excess and
obsolete inventory write downs, charges for goodwill and fixed asset impairment, personnel
expenses, lease expenses for limited-use facilities, and legal costs related to the restructuring
of operations.

Accruals relating to restructuring charges and the subsequent activities are summarized as
follows:

8. Income Taxes 

Through January 31, 2006, we have recorded a valuation allowance of $79.7 million against
deferred income tax assets primarily associated with tax loss carry forwards. Our significant
operating losses experienced in recent years establishes a presumption that realization of these
income tax benefits does not meet a  more likely than not  standard.

We have net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $176.6 million. We believe that our
acquisition of Sterling Holding Company in November 2003 triggered Internal Revenue Code Section
382 limitations on the net operating loss that existed prior to the acquisition, which

10

Table of Contents   

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 
JANUARY 31, 2006 
(all amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

was approximately $132.5 million. Of that amount, we believe the available utilization of the net
operating loss is limited to approximately $2.0 million on an annual basis. The net operating loss
carry forwards will expire between 2022 and 2026.

9. Long-Term Debt 

During the quarter ended October 31, 2005, the remaining principal balance of the Company s
debt ($0.4 million) was paid in full. The debt had consisted of a note payable for the purchase
of computer software and hardware in connection with the implementation of a new information
technology system in fiscal 2002.

10. Other Current Liabilities 

Other current liabilities consist of accrued expenses, and are detailed as follows:

11. Litigation 

From time to time, Stratos becomes involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings that
arise in the normal course of business. We believe that the resolution of these lawsuits and legal
proceedings will not have a significant effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.

Stratos and certain of our former directors and executive officers have been named as
defendants in purported class action lawsuits filed in the United States District Court, Southern
District of New York. The first of these lawsuits, filed on July 25, 2001, is captioned Kucera
v. Stratos Lightwave, Inc. et al. No. 01 CV 6821. Three other similar lawsuits have also been
filed against Stratos and certain of our former directors and executive officers. The complaints
also name as defendants the underwriters for Stratos  initial public offering. The complaints are
substantially identical to numerous other complaints filed against other companies that went

11

Table of Contents   

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 
JANUARY 31, 2006 
(all amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

public during the time of Stratos  IPO. The complaints generally allege, among other things, that
the registration statement and prospectus from our June 26, 2000 initial public offering failed to
disclose certain alleged actions by the underwriters for the offering. The complaints charge
Stratos and several of our former directors and executive officers with violations of Sections 11
and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and/or Section 10(b) and Section 20(a) to the
Security Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The complaints also allege claims solely against the
underwriting defendants under Section 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

In 2003, we agreed to a Memorandum and Understanding, which reflects a settlement of these
class actions as between the purported class action plaintiffs, Stratos and the former officers and
directors, and our liability insurers. Under the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding, our
liability insurers will pay certain sums to the plaintiffs, with the amount dependent upon the
plaintiffs  recovery from the underwriters in the IPO class actions as a whole. The plaintiffs
will dismiss with prejudice their claims against Stratos and our former officers and directors, and
Stratos will assign to the plaintiffs certain claims that it may have against the underwriters.
The plaintiffs filed with the court a motion for preliminary approval of the settlement, which,
when granted, would lead to the mailing of class-wide notices of the settlement and a hearing date
for approval of the settlement. The issuers, including Stratos, filed a statement joining in the
plaintiffs  motion for preliminary approval of the settlement. The underwriter defendants opposed
the motion. On February 15, 2005, the Court issued its ruling granting the plaintiffs  motion for
preliminary approval of the settlement with the issuers, subject to certain changes to the bar
order to be included as part of the settlement and to the notice to the class, and the Court
recently approved the revisions made to the settlement and the notice pursuant to its prior order.
The settlement still remains subject to final approval by the Court after notice of the settlement
is sent to the class and the class members and other parties have an opportunity to have their
objections, if any, to the settlement heard at the final fairness hearing, which the Court has
scheduled for April 24, 2006.

In February 2002, we acquired Tsunami Optics, Inc. The acquisition agreement contemplated a
potential earn-out payment of up to $18 million in common stock if certain financial targets were
achieved following the acquisition. In June 2002, Catherine Lego, as representative of the former
Tsunami shareholders, filed a lawsuit against Stratos alleging, among other things, that Stratos
breached the acquisition agreement by refusing to allow Tsunami to operate as a separate
subsidiary, firing the Tsunami executives that were necessary to operate the business, and thereby
making it impossible for Tsunami to achieve the targets
required to receive any earn-out payments. The complaint also alleged fraud and violations of
federal securities laws in connection with the acquisition of Tsunami. Plaintiffs sought $38
million in damages or the rescission of the acquisition agreement. Stratos filed a counterclaim
against Ms. Lego and several other shareholders and officers of Tsunami which alleged fraud, breach
of contract and violations of federal securities laws. The counterclaim sought compensatory and
punitive damages.

12

Table of Contents   

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 
JANUARY 31, 2006 
(all amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

In April 2004, the Court entered an order in favor of Stratos to dismiss with prejudice 11 of
13 counts of the plaintiffs  complaint. The damages sought for the plaintiffs  two remaining
claims (breach of contract and rescission) remained unchanged at $38 million. A trial of this
action was held in December 2004 in the United States District Court, Northern District of
California. On February 16, 2005, the Court entered judgment in Stratos  favor on both of
plaintiffs  two remaining claims. The Court entered judgment against Stratos on its counterclaim
against the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs filed a timely notice of appeal of the trial court s
judgment in Stratos  favor on plaintiffs  claims for breach of contract and rescission, and of the
trial court s earlier dismissal of plaintiffs  other claims including federal securities fraud
claims. Stratos did not appeal the trial court s judgment in plaintiffs  favor on Stratos 
counterclaims. In August 2005, the plaintiffs agreed to dismiss their appeal. A stipulation of
dismissal was filed with the appellate court on August 31, 2005. The court granted the stipulation
to dismiss the appeal with prejudice on September 7, 2005.

In August 2002, James Campbell, the former CEO of Tsunami, filed a lawsuit against Stratos
alleging wrongful termination in breach of his employment contract, fraud and age discrimination.
Campbell s claims were subsequently amended to include intentional infliction of emotional
distress. Campbell sought unspecified damages, punitive damages and attorney s fees. During the
first quarter of fiscal year 2006 we settled this litigation.

In August 2004, Federal Insurance Company, issuer of the Directors  and Officers  Insurance
policy for Stratos, filed suit against Stratos and others in the United States District Court,
Northern District of Illinois. The Complaint for Declaratory Judgment has been filed to deny
coverage to Stratos, under our Director and Officer policy, for the Lego and Campbell lawsuits.
The suit was filed in response to Stratos  submission of a claim for insurance coverage for the
Lego and Campbell lawsuits and the tender of defense costs to the insurer for reimbursement.
Federal did not seek damages from Stratos and Stratos disputes denial of the coverage. In June
2005 the court determined that Federal is not responsible for the claim for insurance coverage nor
the reimbursement of the defense costs. The Company filed an appeal of the ruling. In November
2005, the lawsuit was settled in favor of the Company as disclosed in the Company s results for the
third quarter fiscal year 2006.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, Stratos settled two patent infringement suits with
Picolight, Inc. The cases were pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware and
were dismissed with prejudice on June 10, 2005.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, Stratos received a lump sum of $5.5 million from the
settlement of litigation in fiscal 2003. The present value of this amount had been recorded as
litigation settlements in the fiscal 2003 Consolidated Statement of Operations. In addition,
Stratos paid $1.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 in settlement of two cases. This
amount was recorded as litigation settlements in the fiscal 2005 Consolidated Statement of
Operations.

13

Table of Contents   

STRATOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 
JANUARY 31, 2006 
(all amounts in thousands, except per share data) 

12. Subsequent Events 

On February 23, 2006 Stratos entered into a redemption agreement with Citicorp Venture
Capital, LTD. to repurchase from CVC all of the 30,210 shares of Stratos Series B Preferred Stock
held by CVC for a negotiated price of $128.11 per share, or $3,870,273.31 in the aggregate
(inclusive of dividends accrued and unpaid through the closing date). Stratos and CVC closed the
repurchase transaction pursuant to the terms of the Agreement on February 23, 2006. Prior to the
repurchase, CVC held 60.4% of the issued and outstanding Series B Preferred Stock.

14

Table of Contents   

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Overview 

Stratos International is a leading supplier of shielded electronic and optical interconnects,
plus the transceiver components that are used to connect these two transmission line mediums. We
design and manufacture interconnect components and subsystems used in telecom communications,
datacom, military and video markets for signal networking.

Our company has a rich history of optical, electrical, and mechanical packaging expertise and
has had a continuing positive role in developing innovative products often involving
miniaturization. We have an intellectual property portfolio of more than 100 patents. We are a
market leader in several niches including specialty optical products such as small form factor
transceivers, coax/optical media interface adapters, optical flex circuits, microwave flexible
cables and cable assemblies, and radio frequency ( RF ) and microwave coax and triax interconnect
products. We currently serve more than 1,000 active repeat customers.

Results of Operations 

Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 

The following table sets forth certain statement of operations data as a percentage of total
revenues for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages):

15

Table of Contents   

Net Sales:  Net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 decreased to $19.0 million
from $19.4 million in the comparable period last year. The $0.4 million decrease in the third
quarter was caused by a $0.7 million decrease in net sales to the data networking end market and a
$1.4 million decrease to the storage/enterprise end market, partially offset by a $0.9 million
increase in net sales to the military/government end market and a $0.8 million increase in net
sales to telecom/metro end markets.

License Fees and Royalties:  License fees increased to $0.2 million in the three months ended
January 31, 2006 from $0.1 million in the comparable period last year. License fees consist of
payments contingent upon sales volumes of licensed products.

Backlog:  Our total sales order backlog increased to $12.7 million as of January 31, 2006 from
$11.5 million as of April 30, 2005.

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins:  Cost of revenues decreased to $12.3 million in the three
months ended January 31, 2006 from $13.4 million in the comparable period last year. Gross margin
as a percentage of total revenues increased to 35.9% in the three months ended January 31, 2006
from 31.4% in the comparable period last year. The increase in sales of higher profit margin
products and the reduction in fixed overhead and other manufacturing costs as a result of
restructuring activities, both had a positive effect on the gross margin in the quarter

16

Table of Contents   

ended January 31, 2006. Sales of $0.1 million in inventory that was previously considered excess and
fully reserved also contributed to the increase in gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal
2006.

Research and Development.  Research and development expenses decreased to $2.3 million in the
three months ended January 31, 2006 from $2.4 million in the comparable period last year. The $0.1
million decrease was due to a $0.4 million decrease in research and development salaries and fringe
benefits offset in part by a $0.3 million increase in the material costs related to major product
development.

Research and development is an ongoing activity in our business, and we anticipate continued
investment in R D programs in the future. We cannot be certain that those activities will result
in future products to generate revenues.

Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses of $2.4 million in the three months ended
January 31, 2006 were unchanged from the comparable period last year. Sales and marketing salaries
and fringe benefits decreased by $0.1 million, offset by a $0.1 million increase in other selling
expenses.

General and Administrative.  General and administrative expenses decreased to $3.9 million in
the three months ended January 31, 2006 from $6.3 million in the comparable period last year. The
$2.4 million decrease was due to reductions of $1.7 million in legal and professional fees, $0.5
million in general expenses and $0.2 million in salaries, fringe benefits and bonuses.

Restructuring and Other Charges . During the three months ended January 31, 2006, we recorded
$0.4 million in restructuring charges representing personnel severance expenses and other expenses
related to the closing of a corporate office in Westlake Village, California. Restructuring
charges in the comparable period last year were $4.3 million including $2.5 million for employee
costs and $1.8 million for idle facility costs.

Litigation Settlements, net.  The litigation settlements of $0.7 million in the three months
ended January 31, 2006 represent a reimbursement from our insurance company of legal fees
previously paid.

Investment income, net:  Investment income, net of investment expense, increased to $0.3
million in the three months ended January 31, 2006 from $0.2 million in the comparable period last
year. Investment income consists of earnings on the short-term investment of excess cash balances.
The increase of this income in the three months ended January 31, 2006 reflects higher prevailing
interest rates during the period.

Other income (expense):  Other income of $0.4 million in the three months ended January 31,
2005 consists of $0.4 million relating to unrealized foreign exchange gains on inter-company loans
recorded in our operations in the United Kingdom.

Income Taxes:  The Company has recorded a valuation allowance of $79.7 million against
deferred income tax assets primarily associated with tax loss carry forwards through January 31,
2006. The significant operating losses experienced in recent years establishes a

17

Table of Contents   

presumption that
realization of these income tax benefits does not meet a  more likely than not  standard.

Nine Months Ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 

The following table sets forth certain statement of operations data as a percentage of total
revenues for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages):

Net sales : Net sales for the nine months ended January 31, 2006 decreased to $58.4
million from $58.6 in the comparable period last year. The decrease in sales was due to a decrease
of $2.8 million in net sales to the storage/enterprise end market and a decrease of $1.5 million in
net sales to the telecom/metro end market, offset in part by a $3.2 million increase in net sales
to the data networking end market and a $0.9 million increase in net sales to the
military/governmental end market.

License Fees and Royalties.  License fees remained constant at $0.4 million in the nine months
ended January 31, 2006 in relation to the comparable period last year. License fees consist of
payments contingent upon sales volumes of licensed products.

Backlog:  Our total sales order backlog increased to $12.7 million as of January 31, 2006 from
$11.5 million as of April 30, 2005.

18

Table of Contents   

Cost of Sales and Gross Margins.  Gross profit increased to $21.8 million for the nine months
ended January 31, 2006 from $19.3 million in the comparable period last year. Gross margin as a
percent of total revenues increased to 37.1% in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 from 32.8%
in the comparable period last year. Both the increase in sales of higher profit margin products
and the reduction in fixed overhead and other manufacturing costs as a result of restructuring
activities had a positive effect on the gross margin in the nine months ended January 31, 2006.
Sales of $0.4 million in inventory that was previously considered excess and fully reserved also
contributed to the increase in gross margin in the first nine months of fiscal 2006. An increase
of $1.0 million in the provision for obsolete and slow moving inventory in the nine months ended
January 31, 2006 over the prior year offset in part these increases in gross margins.

Research and Development.  Research and development expenses decreased to $6.1 million in the
nine months ended January 31, 2006 from $7.2 million in the comparable period
last year. The $1.1 million decrease was due to a $1.0 million decrease in research and
development salaries and fringe benefits and a $0.1 million decrease in the material costs related
to major product development.

Research and development is an ongoing activity in our business, and we anticipate continued
investment in R D programs in the future. We cannot be certain that those activities will result
in future products to generate revenues.

Sales and Marketing.  Sales and marketing expenses decreased to $7.5 million in the nine
months ended January 31, 2006 from $7.9 million in the comparable period last year. The $0.4
million decrease was due to a $0.4 million decrease in sales and marketing salaries and fringe
benefits.

General and Administrative.  General and administrative expenses decreased to $11.8 million in
the nine months ended January 31, 2006 from $17.6 million in the comparable period last year. The
$5.8 million decrease was due to a $3.7 million reduction in legal and professional fees, $1.3
million reduction in corporate salaries, fringe benefits and bonuses, and a reduction of $0.8
million in general expenses.

Restructuring and Other Charges . During the nine months ended January 31, 2006, we recorded
$0.8 million in restructuring and other charges related to the consolidation and elimination of
various activities ,  which represented personnel severance expenses and other expenses.
Restructuring charges in the comparable period last year were $4.3 million including $2.5 million
for employee costs and $1.8 million for idle facility costs.

Litigation settlements, net:  Litigation settlements of $0.7 million in the nine months ended
January 31, 2006 represent a reimbursement from our insurance company of legal fees previously
paid. Litigation settlements of $4.1 million in the comparable period last year represent lump sum
license payments received associated with the settlement of several patent infringement cases.

Investment Income, net.  Investment income net of investment expense, increased to $0.9
million in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 from $0.3 million in the comparable period

19

Table of Contents   

last year. Investment income consists of earnings on the short-term investment of excess cash balances.
The increase in the nine months ended January 31, 2006 reflects higher prevailing interest rates
during the period and an increase in liquidity available for investment.

Other income (expense):  Other income of $0.4 million in the nine months ended January 31,
2006 principally consists of $0.8 million relating to the resolution and reversal of prior period
accruals, $0.3 million of other non-operating income offset partially by $0.7 million of unrealized
foreign exchange losses on inter-company loans recorded in our operations in the United Kingdom.
Other income of $0.3 million in the comparable period consists of $0.3 million relating to
unrealized foreign exchange gains on inter-company loans recorded in our operations in the United
Kingdom.

Income Taxes.  The Company has recorded a valuation allowance of $79.8 million against
deferred income tax assets primarily associated with tax loss carry forwards through January 31,
2006. The significant operating losses experienced in recent years establishes a
presumption that realization of these income tax benefits does not meet a  more likely than
not  standard.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $6.0 million for the nine months ended
January 31, 2006. The net cash provided by operating activities primarily resulted from the receipt
of $5.5 million from the settlement of litigation recorded as litigation settlements in fiscal
2003, partially offset by the payment of $1.8 million in settlement of two cases which were
recorded as litigation settlements in fiscal 2005. In addition, the net cash provided by operations
was adversely affected by the decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses offset partially by
positive earnings before depreciation and amortization and the decrease in the levels of accounts
receivable and inventory. Net cash used in operating activities totaled $3.0 million for the nine
months ended January 31, 2005. The use of cash in operating activities resulted primarily from a
net loss and the increase of inventory, offset in part by the increase in accounts payable and
accrued expenses and a decrease in accounts receivable and prepaid expenses.

We operate in markets that have experienced a severe economic downturn during the past several
years and, as a result, many of our customers may, from time to time, stretch their payment terms.
Days sales in accounts receivable was 57 days at January 31, 2006 compared to 58 days at April 30,
2005.

Net cash used in investing activities totaled $4.0 million in the nine months ended January
31, 2006, including a $3.4 million net increase in short-term investments and $0.7 million for the
purchase of equipment. Net cash from investing activities totaled $13.2 million in the nine months
ended January 31, 2005, including a $12.0 million decrease in short-term investments, $0.2 million
in proceeds from the sale of fixed assets and $1.5 million of proceeds from the sale of assets held
for sale, offset by $0.5 million for the purchase of equipment and facilities.

Net cash used in financing activities was $1.8 million in the nine months ended January 31,
2006. This amount consisted of a $0.8 million repayment of borrowings, $0.9 million

20

Table of Contents   

purchase of
shares for the treasury and $0.3 million of dividend payments on preferred stock, offset in part by
$0.2 million of proceeds from stock option exercises. In the nine months ended January 31, 2005,
net cash used in financing activities was $1.7 million, including a $1.6 million repayment on
borrowings and $0.3 million of dividend payments on preferred stock, offset in part by $0.1 million
of proceeds from stock option exercises.

As of January 31, 2006, our principal source of liquidity was approximately $35.8 million in
cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.

We have implemented personnel reductions, shut down certain facilities, disposed of certain
assets and put in place other cost reduction programs. However, since many of our costs are fixed
in the near term, we expect to continue to incur significant manufacturing, research and
development, sales and marketing and administrative expenses. Consequently, we will need to
generate higher revenues while containing or reducing costs and operating expenses if we are to
achieve and maintain profitability. If our efforts to increase our revenues and contain or reduce
our costs are not successful, we will continue to incur net losses. We are also examining and
pursuing opportunities for improving gross margins and cash flows. The merger with Sterling
combined two companies with brands that are well-respected by segments of the telecommunications,
military, video and broadcast customer base, that seek solutions to difficult problems at the
electrical side of the high-performance, high-bandwidth interface, which are solved by our
products. We believe that these products, when combined with superior customer service, provide the
potential for improving gross margins and cash flows.

Accordingly, we are examining the requirements of our customers and the broader potential
customer base where our core competencies could provide value to customers in an enduring and
profitable way with new products. We are also focused on improving customer service through better
execution of delivery, support and cycle time, particularly for specialty products to those
customers who value and will pay for this service. We believe we are moving forward to create a
customer-responsive organization that executes as demanded to supply innovative high quality
products that are useful to our customers  needs. There is no assurance that these efforts will be
successful.

Our future capital requirements will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to
generate increased sales and our ability to manage operating expenses. The continued
diversification of our end markets and expansion of our product offerings through internal and,
possibly, external growth could materially change our level of cash and cash equivalents. This
diversification may require us to seek equity or debt financing. Our only cash commitment is the
payment of cumulative cash dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock in the amount of approximately
$0.4 million annually. Also, we are obligated to redeem all shares of Series B Preferred Stock in
accordance with the terms of the Certificate of Designation for such stock no later than 60 days
following the occurrence of certain events relating to the achievement of $250 million in annual
revenue or $500 million in market capitalization. In addition, in the event of a change of control,
the Series B Preferred Stock becomes redeemable for an aggregate of $5.0 million, subject to upward
adjustment under certain circumstances relating to market price of our Common Stock. On February
23, 2006 we repurchased 30,210 shares of the Series B Preferred Stock for a negotiated price of
$128.11 per share, or $3,870,273.31 in the aggregate (inclusive of

21

Table of Contents   

dividends accrued and unpaid
through the closing date), which represented 60.4% of the issued and outstanding Series B Preferred
Stock prior to the repurchase.

We believe that our current cash balances will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for
working capital, capital expenditures, and the Series B Preferred Stock dividend.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We are not party to any transactions, arrangements and other relationships with unconsolidated
entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on
our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources. We have no
exposures to off-balance sheet arrangements; no special purpose entities; and no activities that
include non-exchange-traded contracts accounted for at fair value.

Critical Accounting Policies 

The preparation of this Quarterly Report requires management s judgment to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. There can be no assurance that actual results
will not differ from those estimates.

Our significant accounting policies are described in our Form 10-K for the year ended April
30, 2005. There have been no significant changes to those accounting policies subsequent to that
filing.

Forward-looking statements 

You should read the discussions in this report together with our consolidated financial
statements and notes to those financial statements, which are included in this report. This report
contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended. The words  anticipates,   intends,   expects,   could,   should,   plans,   believes, 
 estimates,  or words or phrases of similar import generally identify forward-looking statements.
You are cautioned that forward-looking statements are subject to risks, trends and uncertainties
that could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those
expressed in any forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual
results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results,
performance or achievements expressed or implied by those statements include, but are not limited
to the following: (i) the continuation of the current economic climate in the communications
industry and its effect on our business; (ii) the long-term growth of the communications,
aerospace, and military industries; (iii) our ability to adapt to changing technologies; (iv) our
ability to develop and market new products and technology and to make enhancements to existing
products and technology on a successful and timely basis; (v) our and our customers  ability to
comply with evolving domestic and international government regulations; (vi) expenditures
associated with redesigning products to comply with evolving industry standards or alternative
technologies that become the industry standard; (vii) our dependence on sales to the communications
and military/aerospace industries; (viii) our ability 

22

Table of Contents   

to develop and manage relationships with
large customers that comprise, and will comprise, a significant percentage of our net sales; (ix)
the length of sales cycles, which vary by product and customer, and the effect that this length has
on net sales and operating expenses; (x) the lack of long-term customer contracts and its effect on
customers  ability to reduce, cancel and defer orders on short notice without significant penalty;
(xi) the effect on gross margins of an inability to reduce manufacturing costs or increase sales of
higher margin products; (xii) the impact of competitive products and competitive pricing pressure;
(xiii) our reliance on a limited number of suppliers and the effect of underestimating or
overestimating the need for certain supplies; (xiv) our ability to attract and retain qualified
personnel; (xv) the effect of defects in our products; (xvi) the effect of compliance with
environmental laws and other legal requirements; (xvii) the effect of economic, political and
regulatory risks associated with international operations, including acts of terrorism directed
against the United States or U.S. affiliated targets; (xviii) our ability to complete and integrate
acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint ventures,
including our ability to complete the integration of Stratos and Sterling Holding Company;
(xix) our ability to secure and defend intellectual property rights and, when appropriate, license
required technology; (xx) adverse outcomes of pending, threatened or future litigation, including
suits related to intellectual property matters; (xxi) volatile market prices for securities of
technology-related companies; (xxii) the effect of provisions in our organizational documents and
Delaware law that may delay or prevent the acquisition of Stratos or may decrease the value of
Stratos common stock; and (xxiii) our ability to meet management, analyst and investor
expectations. Because forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions and uncertainties,
actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements. Shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak
only as of the date of this document or the date of any document incorporated by reference. All
subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements concerning the matters addressed in this
document and attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their
entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Except to the
extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to release publicly any
revisions or updates to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after
the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 

Please read the risk factors included in Item 1A of Part II of this quarterly report for a
more detailed discussion of the foregoing and other factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements and that, among others,
should be considered in evaluating our financial outlook.  

23

Table of Contents   

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

We are subject to certain market risks, including foreign currency fluctuations and interest
rates. Although our Stratos U.K. subsidiary enters into transactions in currencies other than its
functional currency, the Pound Sterling, foreign currency exposures arising from these transactions
are not material to us. The primary foreign currency exposure arises from the translation of our
net equity investment in our foreign subsidiary to U.S. Dollars. We generally view our investment
in our foreign subsidiary as long-term. The primary currency to which we are exposed is the Pound
Sterling.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures. 

As of the end of the period covered by this report on Form 10-Q, our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation of
the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )). In designing and
evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that disclosure controls
and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not
absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met. Our
disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to meet, and management believes that they
meet, reasonable assurance standards. Additionally, in designing disclosure controls and
procedures, our management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the
cost-benefit relationship of possible disclosure controls and procedures. The design of any
disclosure controls and procedures also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the
likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in
achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Based upon that evaluation, our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, subject to the limitations
noted above, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to
material information required to be disclosed in our filings with the SEC.

There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule
13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2006
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.

24

Table of Contents   

PART II  OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 

From time to time, Stratos becomes involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings that
arise in the normal course of business. We believe that the resolution of these lawsuits and legal
proceedings will not have a significant effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.

Stratos and certain of our former directors and executive officers have been named as
defendants in purported class action lawsuits filed in the United States District Court, Southern
District of New York. The first of these lawsuits, filed on July 25, 2001, is captioned Kucera v.
Stratos Lightwave, Inc. et al. No. 01 CV 6821. Three other similar lawsuits have also been filed
against Stratos and certain of our former directors and executive officers. The complaints also
name as defendants the underwriters for Stratos  initial public offering. The complaints are
substantially identical to numerous other complaints filed against other companies that went public
during the time of Stratos  IPO. The complaints generally allege, among other things, that the
registration statement and prospectus from our June 26, 2000 initial public offering failed to
disclose certain alleged actions by the underwriters for the offering. The complaints charge
Stratos and several of our former directors and executive officers with violations of Sections 11
and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and/or Section 10(b) and Section 20(a) to the
Security Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The complaints also allege claims solely against the
underwriting defendants under Section 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

In 2003, we agreed to a Memorandum and Understanding, which reflects a settlement of these
class actions as between the purported class action plaintiffs, Stratos and the former officers and
directors, and our liability insurers. Under the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding, our
liability insurers will pay certain sums to the plaintiffs, with the amount dependent upon the
plaintiffs  recovery from the underwriters in the IPO class actions as a whole. The plaintiffs
will dismiss with prejudice their claims against Stratos and our former officers and directors, and
Stratos will assign to the plaintiffs certain claims that it may have against the underwriters.
The plaintiffs filed with the court a motion for preliminary approval of the settlement, which,
when granted, would lead to the mailing of class-wide notices of the settlement and a hearing date
for approval of the settlement. The issuers, including Stratos, filed a statement joining in the
plaintiffs  motion for preliminary approval of the settlement. The underwriter defendants opposed
the motion. On February 15, 2005, the Court issued its ruling granting the plaintiffs  motion for
preliminary approval of the settlement with the issuers, subject to certain changes to the bar
order to be included as part of the settlement and to the notice to the class, and the Court
recently approved the revisions made to the settlement and the notice pursuant to its prior order.
The settlement still remains subject to final approval by the Court after notice of the settlement
is sent to the class and the class members and other parties have an opportunity to have their
objections, if any, to the settlement heard at the final fairness hearing, which the Court has
scheduled for April 24, 2006.

25

Table of Contents   

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

The following is a restated description of the risk factors associated with our business previously
disclosed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which includes any material changes to and
supersedes the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in
our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Risks Relating to Our Business 

We have incurred significant net losses, primarily due to the current economic climate in the
communications industry. Unless we are able to increase our sales or further reduce our costs, we
will continue to incur net losses. 

The current economic climate in the communications industry has resulted in reduced capital
spending from its peak for networking products. Spending for networking products appears to have
stabilized and may see a rebound, although it is not expected to return to peak levels for the
foreseeable future. As a result, many of our customers continue to express uncertainty as to their
future requirements. We do not expect continued substantial growth in the markets we serve. Any
decline in demand for our customers  products or a deterioration of general economic conditions in
the communications industry would likely result in reduction in demand for our products and our
business, operating results and financial condition would suffer.

Although we have implemented personnel reductions and other cost reduction programs, many of our
costs are fixed in the near term. Consequently, we will need to generate higher revenues while
containing or reducing costs and operating expenses if we are to achieve profitability. If our
efforts to increase our revenues and contain our costs are not successful, we will continue to
incur net losses.

Our success depends on the long-term growth of the military, telecom/enterprise and broadcast
industries and its use of our technologies. If these events do not occur, our net sales may decline
and our business would likely be significantly harmed. 

Our subsystems and components are used primarily in military, video broadcast, industrial,
enterprise, metropolitan area, wide area and telecommunication networks. These markets are all
subject to different drivers, which are changing and, as a result it is difficult to predict their
potential size, price elasticity, or future growth rate. In addition, there is uncertainty as to
the extent to which communications technologies will be used throughout these markets. Our success
in generating revenue in these markets will depend on the long-term growth of these markets and
their use of communications technologies. If these markets do not grow, or if the use of
communications technologies in these markets does not expand, our net sales may decline and our
business would likely be significantly harmed.

The market for communications equipment is changing rapidly and is dominated by several large
manufacturers. Our future growth will depend, in part, upon (1) our ability to develop and
introduce new products for this market and (2) the growth of the communications equipment market
and (3) our ability to compete successfully in the communications industry. The growth

26

Table of Contents   

in the market for communications equipment products and services is dependent on a number of
factors, including without limitation:

The amount of capital expenditures by network providers 

Regulatory and legal developments 

Changes to capital expenditure rates by network providers 

The addition of new customers to the market 

End-user demand for integrated Internet, data, video, voice and other network services 

We cannot predict the growth rate of the market for telecommunications equipment products and
services. The economic climate in the communications industry, changes and consolidation in the
service provider market and constraints on capital availability have had a material adverse effect
on many of our service provider customers, causing some of these customers to go out of business
and a number of other customers to substantially reduce their expansion plans and purchases.

We must develop new products and technologies as well as enhancements to existing products and
technologies in order to remain competitive. If we fail to do so, our products will no longer be
competitive and our net sales will decline. 

The markets for our products and technologies are characterized by technological change, new and
improved product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards.
Our future success will depend to a substantial extent on our ability to develop, introduce and
support new products and technologies on a successful and timely basis. If we fail to develop and
deploy new products and technologies or enhancements of existing products on a successful and
timely basis or we experience delays in the development, introduction or enhancement of our
products and technologies, our products will no longer be competitive and our net sales will
decline. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel
orders for existing products. In addition, a slowdown in demand for existing products ahead of a
new product introduction could result in a write down in the value of inventories relating to
existing products.

The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process
requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as
well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may not be able to
identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all,
or on a timely basis. Further, our new products may be unable to gain market acceptance and we may
not be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes
or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to technological change would significantly
harm our business.

Our products are incorporated into larger systems, which must comply with various domestic and
international government regulations. If the performance of our products adversely affects our
customers  ability to comply with these requirements, we may lose these customers and our net sales
will decline. 

Our products are incorporated into larger systems, which must comply with various regulations and
standards established by different countries, which may vary considerably. If the performance of
our products contributes to our customers  inability to comply with existing or

27

Table of Contents   

evolving standards established by regulatory authorities or to obtain timely domestic or foreign
regulatory approvals, we may lose these customers and our net sales will decline.

If our products fail to comply with evolving industry standards or alternative technologies in our
markets, we may be required to make significant expenditures to redesign our products. 

Typically, our products comprise only a part of an entire networking system and must comply with
evolving industry standards in order to gain market acceptance. In many cases, we introduce a
product before an industry standard has become widely accepted and we depend on the companies that
provide other components to support industry standards as they evolve. Because industry standards
do not exist in some cases at the time we are developing new products, we may develop products that
do not comply with the eventual industry standard. If this occurs, we would need to redesign our
products to comply with adopted industry standards. In addition, if alternative technologies were
adopted as an industry standard within our target markets, we would have to dedicate significant
time and resources to redesign our products to meet this new industry standard. If we are required
to redesign our products, we may incur significant expenses and losses due to lack of customer
demand, unusable purchased components for these products and the diversion of our engineers from
future product development efforts. If we are not successful in redesigning our products or
developing new products to meet new standards or any other standard that may emerge, our net sales
will decline.

We are also dependent on sales to the military/aerospace industry, including U.S. and foreign
government entities. 

Approximately 37.9% of our sales for the nine months ended January 31, 2006 came from direct and
indirect sales to the military/aerospace industry, which is heavily dependent on sales to U.S. and
foreign government entities, either directly through contracts with such entities or indirectly
through distributors and to prime contractors or subcontractors who are building systems or
subsystems for them. Sales to our largest customer, General Dynamics accounted for 10.7% of our
total revenue in the third quarter ended January 31, 2006 and 9.1% for the nine months ended
January 31, 2006. A significant decline in U.S. and foreign government expenditures could have a
material adverse effect on our sales.

Our sales cycle runs from our customers  initial design to production for commercial sale. This
cycle is long and unpredictable and may cause our net sales to decline or our operating expenses to
increase. 

Because of the length of our sales cycles, our ability to accurately predict the timing of our
sales is limited. As a result, if sales forecasts from specific customers are not realized, we may
be unable to compensate for the sales shortfall and our net sales may decline. The period of time
between our initial contact with a customer and the receipt of a purchase order may span over a
year or more, and varies by product and customer. During this time, customers may perform, or
require us to perform extensive evaluation and qualification testing of our products. Generally,
they consider a wide range of issues before committing to purchase our products, including ability
to interoperate with other subsystems and components, product performance and reliability. We may
incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort while our
potential customers are qualifying our products. Even after incurring these costs, we ultimately
may not sell any or may only sell small amounts of our

28

Table of Contents   

products to these potential customers. Consequently, if new sales do not result from our efforts
to qualify our products, our operating expenses will increase.

Our customers may cease purchasing our products at any time and may cancel or defer purchases on
short notice, which may cause our net sales to decline or increase our operating expenses. 

We generally do not have long-term supply contracts with our customers. Sales are typically made
pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with short lead times, that may be canceled or
deferred by customers on short notice without significant penalty. Our customers base their orders
for our products on the forecasted sales and manufacturing schedules for their own products. Our
customers have in the past significantly accelerated, canceled or delayed orders for our products
in response to unanticipated changes in the manufacturing schedules for their own products, and
will likely do so again in the future.

If we do not decrease our manufacturing costs or increase sales of higher margin products as the
average unit price of our existing products decreases, our gross margins will decline. 

The average unit prices of our products frequently decrease as the products mature in response to
increased competition, the introduction of new products and increased unit volumes. Most of our
products are designed and manufactured in our own facilities. Accordingly, a significant portion
of our cost of sales is fixed over the near term. In order to remain competitive, we must
continually reduce our manufacturing costs through design and engineering changes and increases in
manufacturing efficiencies. We must also continue to develop and introduce on a timely basis new
products that incorporate features that can be sold at higher average selling prices. Our
inability to reduce manufacturing costs or introduce new products with higher average selling
prices will cause our gross margins to decline, which would significantly harm our operating
results.

The market for our products is highly competitive, which may result in lost sales or lower gross
margins. 

The market for our products is highly competitive. For optoelectronics, we compete primarily with
Agilent Technologies, Inc., Finisar Corporation, JDS Uniphase Corporation and Optical
Communications Products, Inc. For fiber optics, we compete primarily with Amphenol Corporation,
Molex, Inc. and Tyco International, Ltd. and numerous other smaller companies. For RF products we
compete with ADC Telecommunications, Inc, Amphenol, ITT Cannon (a subsidiary of ITT Industries),
Kings Electronics Co., Inc, Radiall, S.A. and numerous other companies globally. In the microwave
products business, we compete with Huber Suhner, WL Gore Associates, Inc. and a large number of
smaller companies.

Many of these companies have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution
resources and brand name recognition than we have. As a result, these competitors are able to
devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of their
products. In addition, several of our competitors have large market capitalizations or cash
reserves and are much better positioned than we are to acquire other companies in order to gain new
technologies or products. Many of our competitors have much greater name recognition, more
extensive customer bases, better-developed distribution channels and broader product offerings than
we do. These companies may leverage their customer bases and broader

29

Table of Contents   

product offerings and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. In addition,
companies with diversified product offerings can better sustain an economic downturn.

We anticipate that more companies, including some of our customers, may enter the markets for our
products. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors.
Competitive pressures, combined with weakening demand, may result in further price reductions,
lower margins and loss of market share. In addition, some of our current and potential customers
are attempting to integrate their operations by producing their own subsystems or components or
acquiring one or more of our competitors, which may eliminate the need to purchase our products.
Furthermore, larger companies in other related industries are developing and acquiring technologies
and applying their significant resources, including their distribution channels and brand name
recognition, in an effort to capture significant market share. While this trend has not
historically impacted our competitive position, it may result in future decreases in our net sales.

Further, we manufacture many of our products in the United States and the United Kingdom. Our
manufacturing costs are higher than the manufacturing costs of some of our competitors,
particularly those located in foreign countries that benefit from lower-priced labor and government
subsidies. If our current or potential future customers decide to purchase products from these
lower-cost competitors, we could suffer a significant decline in our sales, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.

We depend on suppliers for several key components. If we underestimate or overestimate our
requirements for these components, our business could be significantly harmed. 

We purchase several key components that are incorporated into our products from a limited number of
suppliers. We have experienced shortages and delays in obtaining key components in the past and
expect to experience shortages and delays in the future. These shortages and delays have typically
occurred when demand within the industry has increased rapidly and exceeded the capacity of
suppliers of key components in the short term. Delays and shortages also often occur in the early
stages of a product s life cycle. The length of shortages and delays in the past has varied from
several days to a month. We are unable to predict the length of any future shortages or delays.

Some of our critical components used in production of certain of our products are purchased from a
key supplier, which has been acquired by one of our competitors. If this supplier increases
prices, reduces quantities available to us or ceases to supply us, our business and results of
operations may be significantly harmed.

The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of these components that meet our quality
requirements may interrupt and delay the manufacturing of our products or result in the
cancellation of orders for our products. In addition, our suppliers could discontinue the
manufacture or supply of these components at any time. We may not be able to identify and
integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion, or at all. Any transition to
alternative suppliers may result in delays in shipment and increased expenses and may limit our
ability to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify an
alternative source

30

Table of Contents   

of supply, we may have to redesign or modify our products, which may cause delays in shipments,
increased design and manufacturing costs and increased prices for our products.

We make forecasts for our component requirements based on anticipated product orders. Although
from time to time we enter into long-term agreements for the purchase of key components, our
purchases of key components are generally made on a purchase order basis. We may also maintain an
inventory of limited source components to limit the potential impact of a component shortage. We
may not accurately predict the demand for our products and the lead-time required to obtain key
components. If we overestimate our requirements, we may have excess inventory, which may become
obsolete and would increase our costs. If we underestimate our requirements, we may have
inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to
our customers. Either of these occurrences would significantly harm our business.

Our success depends on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, and if we are unable to
do so, our product development efforts and customer relations will suffer. 

Our products require sophisticated manufacturing, research and development, marketing and sales,
and technical support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified
technical personnel in each of these areas. Competition for personnel in all of these areas is
intense and we may not be able to hire or retain sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or
support the anticipated growth in our business. The market for the highly-trained personnel we
require is very competitive, due to the limited number of people available with the necessary
technical skills and understanding of our products and technology. If we fail to hire and retain
qualified personnel, our product development efforts and customer relations will suffer.

Our products may contain defects, which may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our
attention from product development efforts and result in a loss of customers. 

Our products are complex and may contain defects, particularly when first introduced or as new
versions are released. Our customers integrate our subsystems and components into systems and
products that they develop themselves or acquire from other vendors. As a result, when problems
occur in equipment or systems into which our products have been incorporated, it may be difficult
to identify the source of the problem. We may be subject to liability claims for damages related
to product defects or experience manufacturing delays as a result of these defects in the future,
any or all of which could be substantial. The length of any future manufacturing delays in
connection with a product defect will depend on the nature of the defect, and whether we or one of
our component suppliers was the source of the defect. Moreover, the occurrence of defects, whether
caused by our products or technology or the products of another vendor, may result in significant
customer relations problems and injury to our reputation and may impair the market acceptance of
our products and technologies.

We are subject to environmental laws and other legal requirements that have the potential to
subject us to substantial liability and increase our costs of doing business. 

Our properties and business operations are subject to a wide variety of environmental, health and
safety laws and other legal requirements, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge
and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our manufacturing
processes. These legal requirements may impose on us the need for additional capital

31

Table of Contents   

expenditures or other requirements. If we fail to obtain required permits or otherwise fail to
operate within these or future legal requirements, we may be required to pay substantial penalties,
suspend our operations or make costly changes to our manufacturing processes or facilities.
Although we believe that we are in compliance and have complied with all applicable legal
requirements, we may also be required to incur additional costs to comply with current or future
legal requirements.

Economic, political and regulatory risks associated with international operations may limit our
sales and increase our costs of doing business abroad. 

A significant portion of our sales is generated from customers located outside the United States,
principally in Europe. We also operate a manufacturing facility in the United Kingdom. Sales to
customers located outside of the United States were approximately 32.6% of our net sales during the
nine months ending January 31, 2006 and approximately 26.6% of our net sales during the nine months
ended January 31, 2005. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks and
uncertainties, including:

Difficulties in managing operations in different locations 

Changes in foreign currency rates 

Longer accounts receivable collection cycles 

Difficulties associated with enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems 

Seasonal reductions in business activities in some parts of the world, such as during
the summer months in Europe 

Trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements 

Changes in a specific country s or region s political or economic conditions 

Potentially adverse tax consequences 

The potential difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign
countries 

Acts of terrorism directed against the United States or U.S. affiliated targets 

These, and other factors could adversely impact our international sales or increase our costs of
doing business abroad or impair our ability to expand into international markets, and therefore
could significantly harm our business.

We may pursue additional acquisitions. If we are unable to successfully integrate any businesses
or technologies that we acquire in the future or are unable to realize the intended benefits of any
future acquisitions, our business will be harmed. 

As part of our strategy, we may pursue opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that
would complement our current products, expand our markets or enhance our technical capabilities, or
that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. Our experience in acquiring other businesses and
technologies is limited. Acquisitions could result in a number of financial consequences,
including:

Use of significant amounts of cash 

The incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities 

Potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities 

Large one-time write-offs 

Amortization expenses related to intangible assets 

Acquisitions also involve numerous operational risks, including:

32

Table of Contents   

Difficulties in integrating operations, products, technologies and personnel 

Unanticipated costs or write-offs associated with the acquisition 

Diversion of management s attention from other business concerns 

Diversion of capital and other resources from our existing businesses 

Potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations 

If we are unable to successfully integrate other businesses or technologies that we may acquire in
the future or are unable to realize the intended benefits of any future acquisitions, our business
will be harmed.

Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights would significantly impair their value
and our competitive position. 

We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as
confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our proprietary
rights. Although we have numerous issued patents and pending patent applications, we cannot be
sure that any patents will be issued as a result of our pending patent applications or, if issued,
that any patent claim allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition,
we cannot be sure that any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or
circumvented, or that any right granted thereunder would provide us with meaningful protection of
our technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may
attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. We may be unable to detect
the unauthorized use of our intellectual property or to take appropriate steps to enforce our
intellectual property rights. Policing unauthorized use of our products and technology is
difficult. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights
to the same extent, as do the laws of the United States. Further, enforcing our intellectual
property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources
and the success of these efforts cannot be predicted with certainty. Litigation has been necessary
and may continue to be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Such
litigation could be costly and its outcome cannot be predicted with certainty. Our inability to
adequately protect against unauthorized use of our intellectual property would significantly impair
its value and our competitive position.

Various litigation matters, in which we are defendants, could result in significant monetary
damages and expenses or restrictions on our ability to sell our products. 

We are involved in various litigation matters that arise from time to time in the ordinary course
of business. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q describe certain
matters, in which we are defendants. See discussion under Part I, Item 3:  Legal Proceedings 
above.

In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and
other intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright
and other intellectual property rights to technologies used in our business. In addition, our
rights to use our name or other trademarks are subject to challenge by others. Any claims, with or
without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and divert the efforts of our
technical and management personnel. If we are unsuccessful in defending ourselves against such
claims, we could be subject to significant monetary damages and may be required to do one or

33

Table of Contents   

more of the following: (1) stop using the challenged technology or selling our products that use
or incorporate such technology, (2) attempt to obtain a license to sell or use the relevant
technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, (3) attempt to
license a substitute technology on reasonable terms or (4) redesign the applicable products to
avoid infringement.

In the event a claim against us were successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant
technology on acceptable terms or license a substitute technology or redesign our products to avoid
infringement, our business would be significantly harmed.

Risks Relating to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock: 

The market prices for securities of technology related companies have been volatile in recent years
and our stock price could fluctuate significantly. 

Our common stock has been publicly traded only since June 27, 2000. The market price of our common
stock has been subject to significant fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering.
These fluctuations could continue. Factors that could affect our stock price include:

Economic and stock market conditions generally and specifically as they may impact
participants in the communications industry 

Earnings and other announcements by, and changes in market evaluations of, participants
in the communications industry 

Changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts following our
stock 

Announcements or implementation by us or our competitors of technical innovations or new
products, and 

Strategic moves by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions 

Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law and our shareholder rights plan may delay or
prevent an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the value of the shares of our common
stock. 

Our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could
make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of
directors. These provisions include the authority of our board of directors has the right to issue
preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of
a potential hostile acquirer. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and business
combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These
provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders. In addition,
we have adopted a stockholder rights plan designed to protect Stratos and its shareholders from
unfair or coercive takeover tactics.

34

Table of Contents   

Item 6. Exhibits. 

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description of Document 

2.1

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 2, 2003, as amended as of
August 19, 2003 and October 31, 2003, among Stratos Lightwave, Inc., Sleeping Bear
Merger Corp. and Sterling Holding Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to
the registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 12, 2003) 

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.1 on Form 10-K filed July 29, 2005) 

3.2

Bylaws of Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 on Form 10-K
filed July 29, 2005) 

3.3

Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 on Form 10-K filed July 29, 2005) 

3.4

Certificate of Designation for Series B Preferred Stock (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.14 on Form 10-K filed July 29, 2005) 

4.1

Specimen certificate representing the common stock (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.1 to registrant s Amendment No. 2 to Form S-1, filed June 22, 2000) 

4.2

Specimen Certificate representing the Series B Preferred Stock (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed
December 15, 2003) 

4.3

Rights Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2001, between Stratos International,
Inc. and Mellon Investor Services LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to
registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed March 28, 2001) 

4.4

First Amendment, dated as of July 2, 2003, to Rights Agreement, dated as of
March 23, 2001, between Stratos Lightwave, Inc. and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as
Rights Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 to registrant s Form 8-A/A,
filed August 7, 2003) 

4.5

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of July 2, 2003, among Stratos
Lightwave, Inc., Citicorp Venture Capital Ltd., the William N. and Carol A. Stout
Trust dated 11/24/98 and the William N. and Carol A. Stout Charitable Remainder Unit
Trust (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Amendment No. 1 to Form S-4, filed
September 29, 2003) 

4.6

Standstill Agreement, dated as of July 2, 2003, between Stratos Lightwave,
Inc. and Citicorp Venture Capital Ltd. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to
Amendment No. 1 to Form S-4, filed September 29, 2003) 

10.1

Form of Indemnity Agreement between Registrant and Registrant s directors and
officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Amendment No. 1 to Form S-1,
filed June 5, 2000) 

35

Table of Contents   

36

Table of Contents   

* 
       
     Filed herewith. 

Furnished herewith. 

37

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 14, 2006  
     Stratos International, Inc. 

By:   
     /s/ Phillip A. Harris

Phillip A. Harris  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

By:   
                                     /s/ Barry Hollingsworth

Barry Hollingsworth  

Chief Financial Officer  

38

<EX-31.1>
 2
 c03423exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1   
 Certification 

I, Phillip A. Harris, President and Chief Executive Officer, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Stratos International, Inc. for the period
ended January 31, 2006.

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for
the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented
in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures,
as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report based on such evaluation; and

c) Disclosed in this quarterly report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s third fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors:

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:  March 14, 2006  
     /s/ Phillip A. Harris

Phillip A. Harris  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 c03423exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2   
 Certification 

I, Barry Hollingsworth, Chief Financial Officer, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Stratos International, Inc. for the period
ended January 31, 2006.

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for
the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented
in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures,
as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report based on such evaluation; and

c) Disclosed in this quarterly report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s third fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors:

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 14, 2006  
     /s/ Barry Hollingsworth

Barry Hollingsworth  

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 c03423exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1  

Certification Pursuant to Section 1350 of
Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code 

I, Phillip A. Harris, President and Chief Executive Officer of Stratos International, Inc., certify
to the best of my knowledge and belief, that:

(1) the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006 (the
 Periodic Report ) which this statement accompanies fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)), and

(2) the information contained in the Periodic Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of Stratos International, Inc.

Date: March 14, 2006

/s/ Phillip A. Harris

Phillip A. Harris

President and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 c03423exv32w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2  

Certification Pursuant to Section 1350 of
Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code 

I, Barry Hollingsworth, Chief Financial Officer of Stratos International, Inc., certify to the best
of my knowledge and belief, that:

(1) the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006 (the
 Periodic Report ) which this statement accompanies fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)), and

(2) the information contained in the Periodic Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of Stratos International, Inc.

Date: March 14, 2006

/s/ Barry Hollingsworth

Barry Hollingsworth

Chief Financial Officer

</EX-32.2>

