<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060314_10-Q_edgar_data_737758_0001104659-06-016501_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>695461</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>78306</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>463686</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>21</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>3</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-016501.hdr.sgml : 20060314
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060314162404
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-016501
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		4
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060203
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060314
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060314

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			TORO CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000737758
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT [3524]
		IRS NUMBER:				410580470
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08649
		FILM NUMBER:		06685363

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8111 LYNDALE AVE SOUTH
		CITY:			BLOOMINGTON
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55420-1196
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6128888801

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8111 LYNDALE AVENUE SOUTH
		CITY:			BLOOMINGTON
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55420

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TORO CO/DE
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CcDmZ+I1shSKP5AIiEbkie6y0B7aTqRiN/HM++PKjYQjvOofan+cwqIfAM2LeWAx
 wfXjxVAVC1nE/laHQxzuTw==

 0001104659-06-016501.txt : 20060314

10-Q
 1
 a06-6851_110q.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C.  20549   

FORM 10-Q   

Quarterly Report Pursuant
to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934   

For the Quarterly Period Ended February 3, 2006   

THE TORO COMPANY   

  (Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)  

8111 Lyndale Avenue South   

   Bloomington, Minnesota 55420   

   Telephone number: (952) 888-8801   

  (Address, including zip code, and
telephone number, including area code, of registrant s principal executive
offices)  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  

Yes          

No       o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  

Large
  accelerated filer        

Accelerated
  filer     o  

Non-accelerated
  filer     o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  

Yes       o  

No          

The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of March 3, 2006 was
42,633,551.  

THE TORO COMPANY   

   INDEX TO FORM 10-Q   

Page Number   

PART
  I.    

FINANCIAL
  INFORMATION:    

Item 1.    

Financial
  Statements   

Condensed Consolidated Statements of
  Earnings (Unaudited) -   

Three Months Ended February 3, 2006 and
  January 28, 2005   

3   

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
  (Unaudited) -   

February 3, 2006, January 28, 2005, and October
  31, 2005   

4   

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
  (Unaudited) -   

Three Months Ended February 3, 2006 and January 28,
  2005   

5   

Notes to Condensed Consolidated
  Financial Statements (Unaudited)   

6-11   

Item 2.    

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
  Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

11-18   

Item 3.    

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
  about Market Risk   

18-19   

Item
  4.    

Controls and Procedures   

19   

PART
  II.    

OTHER
  INFORMATION:    

Item
  1.    

Legal Proceedings   

20   

Item
  1A.    

Risk Factors   

20   

Item 2.    

Changes in Securities, Use of Proceeds, and
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

21   

Item
  6.    

Exhibits   

22   

Signatures   

23   

2  

PART I.   

Item
1.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

THE TORO COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   Condensed Consolidated   Statements of Earnings (Unaudited)   

   (Dollars and shares in thousands, except per share
data)   

See accompanying
notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  

3  

THE TORO COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   Condensed Consolidated   Balance Sheets (Unaudited)   

   (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)   

See accompanying
notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  

4  

THE TORO COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   Condensed
Consolidated Statements of   Cash Flows
(Unaudited)   

   (Dollars in thousands)   

See accompanying
notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  

5  

THE TORO COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     Notes to Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements (Unaudited)   

   February 3, 2006   

Basis of Presentation   

The accompanying
unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with the instructions to Form 10-Q and do not include all the
information and notes required by accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America for complete financial statements. Unless the context
indicates otherwise, the terms  company  and  Toro  refer to The Toro Company
and its subsidiaries. In the opinion of management, the unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting primarily
of recurring accruals, considered necessary for a fair presentation of the
financial position and the results of operations. Since the company s business
is seasonal, operating results for the three months ended February 3, 2006
cannot be annualized to determine the expected results for the fiscal year
ending October 31, 2006. Certain amounts from prior period s financial
statements have been reclassified to conform to this period s presentation.  

The company s fiscal year
ends on October 31, and quarterly results are reported based on three month
periods that generally end on the Friday closest to the quarter end. For
comparative purposes, however, the company s second and third quarters always
include exactly 13 weeks of results so that the quarter end date for these two
quarters is not necessarily the Friday closest to the quarter end.  

For further information,
refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes included in the
company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2005.
The policies described in that report are used for preparing quarterly reports.  

Accounting Policies   

In preparing the
consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America, management must make decisions
that impact the reported amounts and the related disclosures. Such decisions
include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied
and the assumptions on which to base accounting estimates. In reaching such
decisions, management applies judgments based on its understanding and analysis
of the relevant circumstances, historical experience, and actuarial valuations.
Actual amounts could differ from those estimated at the time the consolidated
financial statements are prepared. Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements in the company s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K provides a
summary of the significant accounting policies followed in the preparation of
the financial statements. Other footnotes to the consolidated financial
statements in the company s Annual Report on Form 10-K describe various
elements of the financial statements and the assumptions made in determining
specific amounts.  

Comprehensive Income   

Comprehensive
income and the components of other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:  

6  

Stock-Based
Compensation   

The company
accounts for stock-based compensation awards in accordance with the provisions
of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (Revised 2004),  Share-Based
Payment.  During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, option awards were granted
with an exercise price equal to the market price of the company s common stock
as of the date of grant. For certain non-officer employees, the options vest
after two years from the date of grant and have a five-year contractual term.
Other options granted during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 vest one-third
each year over a three year period and have a ten-year contractual term.
Compensation expense equal to the grant date fair value is recognized for these
awards over the vesting period. The company also issues Performance Shares to
key employees. The company determines the fair value of these Performance
Shares as of the date of grant and recognizes the expense over the vesting
period. Total compensation expense for these awards was $2.1 million for the
first quarter of fiscal 2006 and $2.0 million for the first quarter of fiscal
2005.  

The fair value of each
share-based option is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes
valuation method that uses the assumptions noted in the following table. The
expected life is a significant assumption as it determines the period for which
the risk-free interest rate, volatility, and dividend yield must be applied.
The expected life is the average length of time over which the employee groups
will exercise their options, which is based on historical experience with
similar grants. Separate groups of employees that have similar historical
exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. Expected volatilities
are based on the movement of the company s stock over the most recent
historical period equivalent to the expected life of the option. The risk-free
rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S.
Treasury rate over the expected life at the time of grant. Dividend yield is
estimated over the expected life based on the company s dividend policy,
historical dividends paid, expected increase in future cash dividends, and
expected increase in the company s stock price. The following table illustrates
the assumptions for options granted in the following fiscal periods.  

The
weighted-average fair value of options granted during the first quarters of
fiscal 2006 and 2005 was $10.90 and $11.14, respectively. The fair value of
Performance Shares granted during the first quarters of fiscal 2006 and 2005
was $41.44 and $37.02, respectively.  

Inventories   

Inventories are
valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined by
the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for most inventories and first-in,
first-out (FIFO) for all other inventories. The company establishes a reserve
for excess, slow-moving, and obsolete inventory that is based on the difference
between the cost and estimated market value for that inventory. These reserves
are based on a review and comparison of current inventory levels to the planned
production as well as planned and historical sales of the inventory.  

Inventories were
as follows:  

7  

Per Share Data   

Reconciliations of
basic and diluted weighted average shares of common stock outstanding were as
follows:  

Shares for all
periods presented have been adjusted to reflect a two-for-one stock split
effective March 28, 2005.  

Segment Data   

The presentation
of segment information reflects the manner in which management organizes
segments for making operating decisions and assessing performance. On this
basis, the company has determined it has two reportable business segments:
Professional and Residential. The Other segment consists of company-owned
distributor operations in the United States and corporate activities, including
corporate financing activities and elimination of intersegment revenues and
expenses.  

The following
table shows the summarized financial information concerning the company s
reportable segments:  

The following table
presents the details of the Other segment earnings (loss) before income taxes:  

8  

Goodwill   

The changes in the
net carrying amount of goodwill for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 were as
follows:  

Other
Intangible Assets   

The components of
other amortizable intangible assets were as follows:  

Amortization
expense for intangible assets during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 was $210,000.
Estimated amortization expense for the remainder of fiscal 2006 and succeeding
fiscal years is as follows: 2006 (remainder), $620,000; 2007, $637,000; 2008, $461,000;
2009, $251,000; 2010, $174,000; 2011, $174,000; and after 2011, $449,000.  

The company also
had $2.5 million of non-amortizable intangible assets related to the Hayter
brand name.  

Warranty Guarantees   

The company s products
are warranted to ensure customer confidence in design, workmanship, and overall
quality. Warranty coverage ranges from a period of six months to seven years,
and generally covers parts, labor, and other expenses for non-maintenance
repairs, provided operator abuse, improper use, or negligence did not
necessitate the repair. An authorized Toro distributor or dealer must perform
warranty work. Distributors, dealers, and contractors submit claims for
warranty reimbursement and are credited for the cost of repairs, labor, and
other expenses as long as the repairs meet prescribed standards. Warranty
expense is accrued at the time of sale based on the estimated number of
products under warranty, historical average costs incurred to service warranty
claims, the trend in the historical ratio of claims to sales, the historical
length of time between the sale and resulting warranty claim, and other minor
factors. Special warranty reserves are also accrued for major rework campaigns.
The company also sells additional warranty coverage on select products when the
factory warranty period expires.  

Warranty
provisions, claims, and changes in estimates for the three-month periods in
fiscal 2006 and 2005 were as follows:  

9  

Postretirement Benefit Plans   

The following
table presents the components of net periodic benefit costs:  

As of February 3, 2006, approximately $90,000 of contributions had been
made. The company presently expects to contribute a total of $500,000 to its
postretirement health-care benefit plan in fiscal 2006.  

The
company maintains The Toro Company Investment, Savings and Employee Stock
Ownership Plan for eligible employees. The company s expenses under this plan
were $4.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and $3.7 million for the
first quarter of fiscal 2005.  

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   

The company uses derivative instruments to assist in the management of
exposure to currency exchange rates. The company uses derivative instruments
only to limit underlying exposure to currency fluctuations, and not for trading
purposes. The company documents relationships between hedging instruments and
the hedged items, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for
undertaking various hedge transactions. The company assesses, both at the hedge s
inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows
of the hedged item.  

The company enters into
foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge the risk from forecasted settlements
in local currencies of trade sales and purchases. These contracts are
designated as cash flow hedges and are reported at fair value as a hedge asset
or liability in prepaid expenses or accrued liabilities, as applicable. Changes
in the fair value of these contracts are reported in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged transaction occurs. Once the
forecasted transaction has been recognized as a sale or inventory purchase and
a related asset or liability recorded in the balance sheet, the related fair
value of the derivative hedge contract is reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) into earnings. During the three months ended
February 3, 2006, the amount of gains reclassified to earnings for such cash
flow hedges was $0.5 million. For the three months ended February 3, 2006, the gains
treated as an addition to net sales for contracts to hedge trade sales were $0.4
million and the gains treated as a reduction of cost of sales for contracts to
hedge inventory purchases were $0.1 million. As of February 3, 2006, the
notional amount of such contracts outstanding was $80.8 million. The
unrecognized after-tax gain portion of the fair value of the contracts recorded
in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of February 3, 2006 was $0.2
million.  

The company also enters
into other foreign currency exchange contracts. These contracts are intended to
hedge intercompany financing transactions and other activities and are not
designed as hedging instruments under the accounting criteria of SFAS No. 133;
therefore, changes in fair value of these instruments are recorded in other
income, net.  

Contingencies   

On June 3, 2004, eight individuals who claim to have purchased
lawnmowers in Illinois and Minnesota filed a lawsuit (Ronnie Phillips et al. v.
Sears Roebuck Corporation et. al., No.04-L-334 (20th Judicial Circuit, St.
Clair County, IL)) against the company and eight other defendants alleging that
the horsepower labels on the products the plaintiffs purchased were inaccurate.
The plaintiffs seek certification of a class of all persons in the United
States who, beginning January 1, 1995 through the present, purchased a
lawnmower containing a two stroke or four stroke gas combustible engine up to
20 horsepower that was manufactured or sold by the defendants. The complaint
seeks an injunction, unspecified compensatory and punitive damages, and
attorneys  fees. No answers have been entered in the case, and there has been
no formal discovery. A number of procedural motions have been filed by the defendants,
but have not yet been decided. On April 20, 2005, the court issued a stay of
discovery and procedural matters to permit the parties to engage in settlement
discussions. An attempt at mediation in October 2005 was unsuccessful, and the
company expects the stay of procedural matters to be lifted so that various
procedural motions may be determined. Management continues to evaluate this
lawsuit and is unable to reasonably estimate the likelihood of loss or the
amount or range of potential loss that could result from this litigation.
Therefore, an accrual has not been established for any potential loss in
connection with this lawsuit. The company is also unable to assess at  

10  

this time whether the lawsuit will have a material adverse effect on
its annual consolidated operating results or financial condition, although an
unfavorable resolution could be material to the company s operating results for
a particular period.  

In
the ordinary course of business, in addition to that described above, the
company may become liable with respect to pending and threatened litigation for
product liability, tax, patent, environmental, and other matters. While the
ultimate results of current claims, investigations, and lawsuits involving the
company are unknown at this time, management believes that, except for the
lawsuit discussed above, the outcomes of these cases are unlikely to have a
material adverse effect on the consolidated operating results or financial
position of the company.  

Accounting
Pronouncements Adopted   

In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations,  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. FASB Interpretation
No. 47 clarifies the timing of liability recognition for legal obligations
associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets when the timing
and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event. We adopted
provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 47 on November 1, 2005, as required, and
the adoption of this Interpretation had an immaterial impact on our
consolidated results of operations or financial condition.  

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs, 
which amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to
clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight,
handling costs, and wasted material. This Statement requires that those items
be recognized as current-period charges regardless of whether they meet the
criterion of  so abnormal.  In addition, this Statement requires that the
allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on
the normal capacity of the production facilities. We adopted the provisions of
SFAS No. 151 on November 1, 2005, as required, which had an immaterial impact
on our consolidated results of operations.  

Item
2.  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Nature of Operations   

The Toro Company is in the business of designing, manufacturing, and
marketing professional turf maintenance equipment and services, turf and micro
irrigation systems, landscaping equipment, and residential yard products
worldwide. Our products are sold through a network of distributors, dealers,
hardware retailers, home centers, mass retailers, and over the Internet, mainly
through Internet retailers. Our businesses are organized into two segments:
professional and residential. A third segment called  other  consists of
domestic distribution companies and corporate activities. Our emphasis is to
provide well-built, dependable, and innovative products supported by an
extensive service network. A significant portion of our revenues has
historically been attributable to new and enhanced products. As we enter our
final year of our  6 + 8  profitability and growth initiative, we expect to continue
to invest in growth strategies directed at underserved markets, such as accelerating
our growth in international markets. The goals of this initiative are to
achieve a consistent after-tax return on net sales of 6 percent or more and
grow revenues at an average rate of 8 percent or more over the three-year
period ending October 31, 2006.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Overview   

Our results for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 were strong with net sales
growth of 6.6 percent and a double digit net earnings growth rate of 27.8
percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Sales were up in all of
our segments, led by significant international sales growth as a result of
continued strong demand, introduction of new products, and the addition of
Hayter Limited, which we acquired in February 2005. Hayter accounted for
slightly more than half of our total net sales growth for the first quarter of
fiscal 2006 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Net earnings
increased significantly, and as a percentage of net sales rose from 3.2 percent
in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 to 3.9 percent in the first quarter of
fiscal 2006. Higher gross margins and continued leveraging of selling, general,
and administrative expenses contributed to the earnings improvement. Our
financial condition remains strong with only modest increases in receivables
and inventory levels. We also increased our first quarter cash dividend by 50
percent compared to the quarterly cash dividend paid in the first quarter of
fiscal 2005.  

Our fiscal 2006 first
quarter results were strong, and we are optimistic that results for the full
fiscal year of 2006 will end strong. However, as net sales and earnings for the
first quarter of our fiscal year are typically lower than other quarters, the
results of our first quarter are not necessarily an indicator of spring season
sales trends, which are still ahead. We continue to keep a cautionary eye on
the domestic and global economies, weather, field inventory levels, commodity
prices, competitive actions, and other factors identified below under the
heading  Forward-Looking Information,  which could cause our actual results to
differ from our outlook.  

11  

Net
Earnings   

First quarter of fiscal
2006 net earnings were $14.3 million or $0.32 per diluted share compared to $11.2
million or $0.23 per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal 2005, a net
earnings increase of 27.8 percent. The primary factors contributing to this
increase were higher sales volumes, an increase in gross margins, and improved
leveraging of selling, general, and administrative costs. In addition, first
quarter of fiscal 2006 diluted earnings per share were benefited by
approximately $0.02 per share compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005 as a
result of reduced shares outstanding due to our significant Toro common stock repurchases
last fiscal year.  

The following table
summarizes the major operating costs and other income as a percentage of net
sales:  

Net Sales   

Worldwide consolidated
net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 were up 6.6 percent compared to
last fiscal year s first quarter. Factoring out the effect of the additional
sales from our acquisition of Hayter in February 2005, net sales increased 3.1
percent over last fiscal year s first quarter. International sales for the
first quarter of fiscal 2006 were up significantly, increasing by 33.9 percent
compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005. International sales were strong in
both the professional and residential segments as a result of continued growth in
demand in international markets, introduction of new products, and improved
availability of some products. However, sales of professional segment products
in the U.S. were down, mainly for commercial and Exmark landscape contractor
equipment, due to efforts to ship product closer to retail demand and reduce
field inventory levels. Sales of residential segment products in the U.S. were
also down due to lower shipments of Lawn-Boy products due to initial stocking shipments
and expanded placement last year for new products. Other segment net sales were
up for the first quarter comparison due to strong sales at a company-owned
distributorship.  

Gross
Profit   

Gross profit for
the first quarter of fiscal 2006 increased 8.4 percent compared to the first
quarter of fiscal 2005. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit for the
first quarter of fiscal 2006 was 35.7 percent compared to 35.1 percent in the
first quarter of fiscal 2005. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of
net sales was the result of the following factors: (i) price increases
introduced on some products to help mitigate the impact of higher commodity
costs during the past two years; (ii) cost reduction efforts, including benefits
from past and continuing profit improvement initiatives; and (iii) a change in
the method of distribution of Exmark products to shipping directly to dealers
in certain markets. Somewhat offsetting those positive factors were (i) increased
outbound freight costs due to higher fuel costs and increased demand for
transportation; (ii) higher tooling costs for new products introduced during
the past two years; and (iii) the addition of Hayter sales that carry lower margins
than the company total.  

Selling,
General, and Administrative Expense   

Selling, general,
and administrative expense (SG A) for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 increased
by 4.9 percent compared to the same period last fiscal year. However, SG A
as a percentage of net sales declined to 29.0 percent in the first quarter of
fiscal 2006 compared to 29.5 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The decrease
in SG A expense as a percentage of net sales was due primarily to
leveraging the fixed portion of SG A costs over higher sales volumes as
well as: (i) reduced warranty expense due to lower costs related to a reimbursement
received from a vendor for a special product modification and lower claims
experience and (ii) lower administrative expenses. Somewhat offsetting those
decreases were: (i) increased investments in engineering and information
systems as part of our  6 + 8  initiative and (ii) higher incentive
compensation expense.  

12  

Interest
Expense   

Interest expense
for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 increased by 12.8 percent compared to the
first quarter of fiscal 2005 due to higher average interest rates on our
short-term debt.  

Other
Income, Net   

Other income, net
for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 was $0.9 million compared to $1.1 million for
the same period last fiscal year, a decline of 22.3 percent. The decrease was
due primarily to lower interest income as a result of decreased invested funds.  

Provision
for Income Taxes   

The effective tax
rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 was 33.0 percent compared to 33.5
percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The decline in the effective tax
rate was due to a reduction in the tax on international operations.  

BUSINESS SEGMENTS   

As described
previously, we operate in two reportable business segments: professional and
residential. A third reportable segment called  other  consists of company-owned
domestic distributorships, corporate activities, and financing functions.
Operating earnings for each of our two business segments is defined as earnings
from operations plus other income, net. Operating loss for our third  other 
segment includes earnings (loss) from operations, corporate activities,
including corporate financing activities, other income, net, and interest
expense.  

The following
table summarizes net sales by segment:  

The following
table summarizes operating earnings (loss) by segment:  

Professional   

Net Sales     .    Worldwide
net sales for the professional segment in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 were
up 3.4 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005. This increase was
led by strong international sales, which were up 25.9 percent for the
professional segment for the first quarter comparison, due to continued demand
in the international markets, the success of new products introduced within the
past two years, improved availability of some products, and the additional
sales from the Hayter acquisition. Shipments of domestic commercial and Exmark
landscape contractor equipment were down for the first quarter comparison due
mainly to efforts to ship product closer to retail demand and reduce field inventory
levels.  

Operating
Earnings   . Operating earnings for the professional segment were $41.7
million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to $38.9 million in the
first quarter of fiscal 2005, an increase of 7.2 percent. Expressed as a
percentage of net sales, professional segment operating margins increased to 16.4
percent compared to 15.8 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2005.  

13  

This
profit improvement was the result of higher gross margins in the first quarter
of fiscal 2006 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005 due to the same
factors discussed previously in the Gross Profit section above. Somewhat
offsetting the operating earnings improvement was an increase in SG A
expense, primarily from increased investments in engineering and marketing as
part of our  6 + 8  initiative.  

Residential   

Net Sales    . Worldwide
net sales for the residential segment in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 were up
by 12.8 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005. This increase was
led by strong international sales due to continued demand in the international
markets, the success of new products introduced within the past two years, and
the additional sales from the Hayter acquisition. Domestic shipments of Toro
walk power mowers were up due mainly to a key mass customer ordering product earlier
than last year. Electric blower sales also increased due to the warm fall
weather that extended the selling season and expanded placement at a key
retailer. Somewhat offsetting those increases were lower Lawn-Boy walk power
mower sales due mainly to initial stocking shipments last year as a result of
additional store placement in the home center distribution channel and the
introduction of new products. Riding product shipments were also down from the
comparative quarter due to continued strong competition.  

Operating Earnings.     Operating
earnings for the residential segment increased 16.1 percent in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Expressed
as a percentage of net sales, residential segment operating margins increased
to 4.8 percent compared to 4.6 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. This
increase was due mainly to higher gross margins due to the same factors
discussed previously in the Gross Profit section above. In addition, SG A
expense as a percentage of net sales slightly decreased due to leveraging the
fixed portion of SG A costs over higher sales volumes.  

Other   

Net Sales     .    Net sales
for the other segment include sales from our wholly owned domestic distribution
companies less sales from the professional and residential segments to those
distribution companies. In addition, elimination of the professional and
residential segments  floor plan interest costs from Toro Credit Company are
also included in this segment. The other segment net sales increased $2.0
million or 35.2 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to the
first quarter of fiscal 2005 due to increased sales at a company-owned
distributorship.  

Operating Losses    . Operating
losses for the other segment were down $1.0 million or 3.8 percent for the
first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005. This
loss decrease was due to lower administrative costs and lower operating losses
at the company-owned distributorships, somewhat offset by higher interest
expense.  

FINANCIAL POSITION   

Working
Capital   

During
the first quarter of fiscal 2006, our financial condition remained strong, and emphasis
continued on improving asset management. Average working capital for the first
three months of fiscal 2006 was $306.5 million compared to $312.0 million for
the first three months of fiscal 2005, a slight decrease of 1.8 percent.
Average receivables for the first three months of fiscal 2006 slightly decreased
by 0.1 percent compared to the first three months of fiscal 2005 on a sales
increase of 6.6 percent. Factoring out the incremental average receivables for
Hayter, average receivables were down 4.8 percent. Average inventory levels slightly
increased by 3.3 percent for the first three months of fiscal 2006 compared to
the first three months of fiscal 2005, and average inventory turnover improved 2.1
percent for the last twelve months ended February 3, 2006 compared to the last
twelve months ended January 28, 2005. Factoring out the incremental average
inventory for Hayter, average inventory was down slightly (1.4 percent) for the
first three months of fiscal 2006 compared to the first three months of fiscal
2005. These improvements reflect our continuing efforts to improve asset
utilization.  

Liquidity
and Capital Resources   

Our businesses are
seasonally working capital intensive and require funding for purchases of raw
materials used in production, replacement parts inventory, capital
expenditures, expansion and upgrading of existing facilities, as well as for
financing receivables from customers. We believe that cash generated from
operations, together with our fixed rate long-term debt, bank credit lines, and
cash on hand, will provide us with adequate liquidity to meet our operating
requirements. We believe that the funds available through existing or
anticipated financing arrangements and forecasted cash flows, will be
sufficient to provide the  

14  

necessary capital
resources for our anticipated working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions,
debt repayments, dividend payments, and stock repurchases for at least the next
twelve months.  

Our Board of Directors
approved a cash dividend of $0.09 per share for the first quarter of fiscal
2006 paid on January 12, 2006, which was an increase over our cash dividend of
$0.06 per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2005.  

Cash
Flow.    Our first fiscal quarter historically uses more
operating cash than other quarters due to the seasonality of our business. Cash
used in operating activities for the first three months of fiscal 2006 was 2.6 percent
lower than the first three months of fiscal 2005 due primarily to higher
earnings, a lower increase in receivables, and a higher increase in accounts
payable and accrued liabilities, somewhat offset by a higher increase in inventory
levels and deferred taxes for the first three months of fiscal 2006 compared to
the first three months of fiscal 2005. Cash used in investing activities was
lower by $2.8 million compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005, due mainly
to cash payments received on notes receivable. In the first quarter of fiscal
2006, we generated $36.4 million cash from financing activities, whereas in the
first quarter of fiscal 2005, we used $20.9 million of cash for financing
activities. This change of $57.3 million was due to lower levels of our common
stock repurchased and an increase in tax benefits for stock-based awards in the
first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005. 

Credit
Lines and Other Capital Resources    .  Our business is
seasonal, with accounts receivable balances historically increasing between
January and April as a result of higher sales volumes and extended payment
terms made available to our customers, and decreasing between May and December
when payments are received. The seasonality of production and shipments causes our
working capital requirements to fluctuate during the year. Our peak borrowing
usually occurs between February and May. Seasonal cash requirements are
financed from operations and with short- and medium-term financing
arrangements, including a $175.0 million unsecured senior five-year revolving
credit facility, which expires in October 2010. We also have a $75.0 million
secured credit line backed by a multi-year credit agreement, expiring in July
2006, which is renewable annually. Interest expense on these credit lines is determined
based on a LIBOR or commercial paper rate plus a basis point spread defined in
the credit agreements. In addition, our non-U.S. operations and a domestic subsidiary
also maintain unsecured short-term lines of credit of approximately $12 million.
These facilities bear interest at various rates depending on the rates in their
respective countries of operation. We also have a letter of credit subfacility
as part of our credit agreements. Average short-term debt was $22.0 million in
the first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to $22.3 million in the first quarter
of fiscal 2005, a slight decrease of 1.5 percent. As of February 3, 2006, we
had $210.0 million of unutilized availability under our credit agreements. 

Significant financial
covenants in our credit agreements are interest coverage and debt to
capitalization ratios. We were in compliance with all covenants related to our
credit agreements as of February 3, 2006, and expect to be in compliance with
all covenants during fiscal 2006. If we were out of compliance with any covenant
required by our credit agreements, the banks could terminate their commitments
unless we could negotiate a covenant waiver from the banks. In addition, our
long-term public notes and debentures could become due and payable if we were
unable to obtain a covenant waiver or refinance our medium-term debt under our
credit agreements. If our credit rating falls below investment grade, the
interest rate we currently pay on outstanding debt under the credit agreements
would increase, but the credit commitments could not be cancelled by the banks
based only on a ratings downgrade. Our debt rating for long-term unsecured
senior, non-credit enhanced debt has been unchanged for the first quarter of
fiscal 2006 by Standard and Poor s Ratings Group at BBB- and by Moody s Investors
Service at Baa3.  

Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   

Our off-balance
sheet arrangements generally relate to customer financing activities, inventory
purchase commitments, operating lease commitments, and currency contracts. See
our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details
regarding our off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations. There
has been no material change in this information.  

Inflation   

We are subject to the
effects of inflation and changing prices. In the first quarter of fiscal 2006,
average prices paid for fuel, petroleum-based resins, and other commodities
were higher compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2005, which resulted in a
negative impact on our gross margin and net earnings. We expect this trend to
continue for the remainder of fiscal 2006. We will continue to attempt to
mitigate the impact of these anticipated increases in commodity prices and
other inflationary pressures by actively pursuing internal cost reduction
efforts, introduce moderate price increases on some products, and vendor
negotiations.  

15  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   

In preparing the
consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America, we must make decisions
which impact the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses, and related disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of the
appropriate accounting principles to be applied and the assumptions on which to
base accounting estimates. In reaching such decisions, we apply judgments based
on our understanding and analysis of the relevant circumstances, historical
experience, and actuarial valuations. Actual amounts could differ from those
estimated at the time the consolidated financial statements are prepared.  

Our significant
accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
October 31, 2005. Some of those significant accounting policies require us to
make difficult subjective or complex judgments or estimates. An accounting
estimate is considered to be critical if it meets both of the following
criteria: (i) the estimate requires assumptions about matters that are highly
uncertain at the time the accounting estimate is made, and (ii) different
estimates reasonably could have been used or changes in the estimates that are
reasonably likely to occur from period to period would have a material impact
on the presentation of our financial condition, changes in financial condition
or results of operations. Our critical accounting estimates include the following:  

Warranty
Reserve   . Warranty coverage on our products ranges from a
period of six months to seven years, and covers parts, labor, and other
expenses for non-maintenance repairs, provided operator abuse, improper use or
negligence did not necessitate the repair. At the time of sale, we accrue a
warranty reserve by product line for estimated costs in connection with future
warranty claims. We also establish reserves for major rework campaigns upon
approval. The amount of our warranty reserves is based primarily on the
estimated number of products under warranty, historical average costs incurred
to service warranty claims, the trend in the historical ratio of claims to
sales, and the historical length of time between the sale and resulting
warranty claim. We periodically assess the adequacy of our warranty reserves
based on changes in these factors and record any necessary adjustments if
actual claim experience indicates that adjustments are necessary. Actual claims
could be higher or lower than amounts estimated, as the amount and value of
warranty claims are subject to variation of such factors as performance of new
products, significant manufacturing or design defects not discovered until
after the product is delivered to customers, product failure rates, and higher
or lower than expected service costs for a repair. We believe that analysis of
historical trends and knowledge of potential manufacturing or design problems
provide sufficient information to establish a reasonable estimate for warranty
claims at the time of sale. However, since we cannot predict with certainty
future warranty claims or costs associated with servicing those claims, our
actual warranty costs may differ from our estimates. An unexpected increase in
warranty claims or in the costs associated with servicing those claims would
result in an increase in our warranty accrual and a decrease in our net
earnings.  The accrual for future
estimated warranty claims was $60.8 million as of February 3, 2006 compared to
$59.3 million as of January 28, 2005. 

Accounts
and Notes Receivable Valuation   . We value accounts and
notes receivable, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. Each quarter, we
estimate our ability to collect outstanding receivables that provides a basis
for an allowance estimate for doubtful accounts. In doing so, we evaluate the
age of our receivables, past collection history, current financial conditions
of key customers, and economic conditions. Based on this evaluation, we
establish a reserve for specific accounts and notes receivable that we believe
are uncollectible, as well as an estimate of uncollectible receivables not
specifically known. Portions of our accounts receivable are protected by a
security interest in products held by customers, which minimizes our collection
exposure. A deterioration in the financial condition of any key customer or a
significant slow down in the economy could have a material negative impact on
our ability to collect a portion or all of the accounts and notes receivable.
We believe that an analysis of historical trends and our current knowledge of
potential collection problems provide us with sufficient information to
establish a reasonable estimate for an allowance for doubtful accounts.
However, since we cannot predict with certainty future changes in the financial
stability of our customers, our actual future losses from uncollectible
accounts may differ from our estimates. In the event we determined that a
smaller or larger uncollectible accounts reserve is appropriate, we would
record a credit or charge to selling, general, and administrative expense in
the period that we made such a determination. As of February 3, 2006, we had $2.6
million reserved against our accounts and notes receivable compared to $2.3
million as of January 28, 2005. 

16  

Forward-Looking Information   

This
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains not only historical information, but
also forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, and that are subject to the safe harbor created by
those sections. In addition, we or others on our behalf may make
forward-looking statements from time to time in oral presentations, including
telephone conferences and/or web casts open to the public, in press releases or
reports, on our Internet web sites, or otherwise.  Statements that are not historical      are forward-looking and reflect expectations and assumptions. We try to
identify forward-looking statements in this report and elsewhere by using words
such as  expect ,  looking ahead ,  plan ,  anticipate ,  estimate ,  believe ,
 should ,  may ,  intend , and similar expressions. Our forward-looking statements
generally relate to our future performance, including our anticipated operating
results and liquidity requirements, our business strategies and goals, and the
effect of laws, rules, regulations, and new accounting pronouncements and
outstanding litigation on our business, operating results, and financial condition.    

Forward-looking
statements involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties
include factors that affect all businesses operating in a global market as well
as matters specific to Toro. The following are some of the factors known to us
that could cause our actual results to differ materially from what we have
anticipated in our forward-looking statements:  

Weather
conditions may reduce demand for some of our products and adversely affect our
net sales.  

                   Increases in
the cost and availability of raw materials and components that we purchase and
increases in our other costs of doing business, such as transportation costs,
may adversely affect our profit margins and business.  

                   Our
professional segment net sales are dependent upon the level of growth in the
residential and commercial construction markets, growth of homeowners 
outsourcing lawn care, the amount of investment in golf course renovations and
improvements, new golf course development, and the amount of government spending.  

                   Our
residential segment net sales are dependent upon the amount of shelf space
retailers assign to our products, changing buying patterns of customers, and
The Home Depot, Inc. as a major customer.  

                   A
significant percentage of our consolidated net sales is generated outside of
the United States, and we intend to continue to expand our international business.
Our international operations require significant management attention and
financial resources, expose us to difficulties presented by international economic,
political, legal, accounting, and business factors, and may not be successful
or produce desired levels of net sales.  

                   Fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported net
sales and net earnings.  

                   We intend to
grow our business in part through additional acquisitions, alliances, and joint
venture arrangements, which are risky and could harm our business.  

                   If we are
unable to smoothly transition leadership roles and responsibilities, retain our
key employees, and attract and retain other qualified personnel, we may not be
able to meet strategic objectives and our business could suffer.  

                   We rely on
our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and
other functions. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these
functions or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business
and operating results could be adversely affected.  

                   A
significant portion of our net sales are financed by third parties. Some Toro
dealers and Exmark distributors and dealers finance their inventories with
third party financing sources. The termination of our agreements with these
third parties, any material change to the terms of our agreements with these
third parties or in the availability or terms of credit offered to our customers
by these third parties, or any delay in securing replacement credit sources,
could adversely affect our sales and operating results.  

                   Our reliance
upon patents, trademark laws, and contractual provisions to protect our
proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property
from others who may sell similar products.  

                   We
manufacture our products at and distribute our products from several locations
in the United States and internationally. 
Any disruption at any of these facilities or our inability to
cost-effectively expand existing and move production between manufacturing facilities
could adversely affect our business and operating results.  

                   Our business
is subject to a number of other factors that may adversely affect our operating
results, financial condition, or business, such as changes in domestic and global
economies, including but not limited to slow growth rate, slow down in home
sales, rise in interest rates, inflation, unemployment, weaker consumer
confidence, and currency exchange rates; natural disasters that may result in
shortages of raw materials, higher fuel costs, and an increase in insurance
premiums; financial viability of some distributors and dealers, changes in
distributor ownership, our success in partnering with new dealers, and our
customers  ability to pay amounts owed to us; and continued threat of terrorist
acts and war that may result in heightened  

17  

security
and higher costs for import and export shipments of components or finished
goods, reduced leisure travel, and contraction of the U.S. and world economies.  

                   If we are
unable to continue to enhance existing products and develop and market new
products that respond to customer needs and achieve market acceptance, we may experience
a decrease in demand for our products, and our business could suffer.  

                   We face
intense competition in all of our product lines, including some competitors
that have greater resources than us. We may not be able to compete effectively
against competitors  actions, which could harm our business and operating results.  

                   Our
business, properties, and products are subject to governmental regulation with
which compliance may require us to incur expenses or modify our products or
operations and may expose us to penalties for non-compliance. Governmental regulation
may also adversely affect the demand for some of our products and our operating
results.  

                   We are
subject to product liability claims, product quality issues, and other
litigation from time to time that could adversely affect our operating results
or financial condition.  

For
more information regarding these risks, see our most recent filed Annual Report
on Form 10-K.  

We wish to caution readers not to place undue
reliance on any forward-looking statement which speaks only as of the date made
and to recognize that forward-looking statements are predictions of future results,
which may not occur as anticipated. Actual results could differ materially from
those anticipated in the forward-looking statements and from historical
results, due to the risks and uncertainties described above, as well as others
that we may consider immaterial or do not anticipate at this time. The foregoing
risks and uncertainties are not exclusive and further information concerning
the company and our businesses, including factors that potentially could
materially affect our financial results or condition, may emerge from time to
time. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual
results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting such forward-looking
statements. We advise you, however, to consult any further disclosures we make
on related subjects in our future quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current
reports on Form 8-K we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

Item 3. 
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITIATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   

We are exposed to market
risk stemming from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates,
and commodity prices. Changes in these factors could cause fluctuations in our
net earnings and cash flows. See further discussions on these market risks below.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate
Risk     . In the normal course of business, we actively manage the
exposure to foreign currency market risk by entering into various hedging
instruments, authorized under company policies that place controls on these
activities, with counterparties that are highly rated financial institutions.
Our hedging activities involve the use of a variety of derivative financial
instruments. We use derivative instruments only in an attempt to limit
underlying exposure from currency fluctuations and to minimize earnings and
cash flow volatility associated with foreign exchange rate changes, and not for
trading purposes. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising
from transactions in the normal course of business, such as sales and loans to
wholly owned subsidiaries as well as sales to third party customers, purchases
from suppliers, and bank lines of credit with creditors denominated in foreign
currencies. Because our products are manufactured or sourced primarily from the
United States, a stronger U.S. dollar generally has a negative impact on
results from operations outside the United States while a weaker dollar
generally has a positive effect. Our primary exchange rate exposures are with
the Euro, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, and
the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar.  

We enter into various
contracts, principally forward contracts that change in value as foreign
exchange rates change, to protect the value of existing foreign currency
assets, liabilities, anticipated sales, and probable commitments. Decisions on
whether to use such contracts are made based on the amount of exposures to the
currency involved, and an assessment of the near-term market value for each
currency. Worldwide foreign currency exchange rate exposures are reviewed monthly.
The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the value of the
related exposures. Therefore, changes in market values of these hedge
instruments are highly correlated with changes in market values of underlying
hedged items both at inception of the hedge and over the life of the hedge
contract. During the three months ended February 3, 2006, the amount of gains
reclassified to earnings for such cash flow hedges was $0.5 million. For the
three months ended February 3, 2006, the gains treated as an addition to net
sales for contracts to hedge trade sales were $0.4 million and the gains
treated as a reduction of cost of sales for contracts to hedge inventory
purchases were $0.1 million.  

The following foreign
currency exchange contracts held by us have maturity dates in fiscal 2006. All
items are non-trading and stated in U.S. dollars. Some derivative instruments
we enter into do not meet the hedging criteria of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting  

18  

for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities;  therefore, changes
in their fair value are recorded in other income, net. The average contracted
rate, notional amount, pre-tax value of derivative instruments in accumulated other
comprehensive loss (AOCL), and fair value impact of derivative instruments in
other income, net for the three months ended February 3, 2006 were as follows:  

Interest
Rate Risk.     We are exposed to interest rate risk arising
from transactions that are entered into during the normal course of business.
Our short-term debt rates are dependent upon a LIBOR or commercial paper rate plus
a basis point spread defined in our credit agreements. See our most recently
filed Annual Report on Form 10-K (Item 7A). There has been no material change
in this information. 

Commodity
Price Risk  .   Some raw materials used in our
products are exposed to commodity price changes. We manage some of this risk by
using a combination of short- and long-term agreements with some vendors. The
primary commodity price exposures are with steel, aluminum, plastic resin, and
linerboard. Further information regarding rising prices for commodities is
presented in Item 2, section entitled  Inflation.  

We utilize well-defined
financial contracts in the normal course of operations as a means to manage
certain commodity price risks. The majority of these contracts are fixed-price
contracts for future purchases of natural gas, which meet the definition of  normal
purchases and normal sales  and therefore, are not considered derivative
instruments for accounting purposes.  

Item 4.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   

We
maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) that are designed to reasonably ensure that
information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or submit
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed,
summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities
and Exchange Commission s rules and forms and that such information is
accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive
and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In
designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, we recognize
that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can
provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives,
and we are required to apply our judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit
relationship of possible internal controls. Our management evaluated, with the
participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness
of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the
end of the period covered in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Based on that
evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of
such period to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be
disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized, and
reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and
that material information relating to our company and our consolidated
subsidiaries is made known to management, including our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, particularly during the period when our periodic
reports are being prepared. There was no change in our internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during our fiscal first quarter ended February
3, 2006 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  

19  

PART II. 
OTHER INFORMATION   

Item 1. 
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   

On June 3, 2004, eight individuals who claim to have purchased
lawnmowers in Illinois and Minnesota filed a lawsuit (Ronnie Phillips et al. v.
Sears Roebuck Corporation et. al., No.04-L-334 (20th Judicial Circuit, St.
Clair County, IL)) against the company and eight other defendants alleging that
the horsepower labels on the products the plaintiffs purchased were inaccurate.
The plaintiffs seek certification of a class of all persons in the United
States who, beginning January 1, 1995 through the present, purchased a
lawnmower containing a two stroke or four stroke gas combustible engine up to
20 horsepower that was manufactured or sold by the defendants. The complaint
seeks an injunction, unspecified compensatory and punitive damages, and
attorneys  fees. No answers have been entered in the case, and there has been
no formal discovery. A number of procedural motions have been filed by the defendants,
but have not yet been decided. On April 20, 2005, the court issued a stay of
discovery and procedural matters to permit the parties to engage in settlement
discussions. An attempt at mediation in October 2005 was unsuccessful, and the
company expects the stay of procedural matters to be lifted so that various procedural
motions may be determined. Management continues to evaluate this lawsuit and is
unable to reasonably estimate the likelihood of loss or the amount or range of
potential loss that could result from this litigation. Therefore, an accrual
has not been established for any potential loss in connection with this
lawsuit. The company is also unable to assess at this time whether the lawsuit
will have a material adverse effect on its annual consolidated operating results
or financial condition, although an unfavorable resolution could be material to
the company s operating results for a particular period.  

We are a party to
litigation in the ordinary course of business. Litigation occasionally involves
claims for punitive as well as compensatory damages arising out of use of our
products. We are also subject to administrative proceedings with respect to
claims involving the discharge of hazardous substances into the environment.
Some of these claims assert damages and liability for remedial investigations and
clean up costs. We are also typically involved in commercial disputes,
employment disputes, and patent litigation cases in the ordinary course of
business, both as a plaintiff and as a defendant. While the ultimate results of
the current cases are unknown at this time, management believes that, except
for the lawsuit discussed above, the outcomes of these cases are unlikely to
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or
financial position. Further, we maintain insurance against some product
liability losses.  

Item 1A. 
RISK FACTORS   

We are affected by
risks specific to us as well as factors that affect all businesses operating in
a global market. The significant factors known to us that could materially adversely
affect our business, financial condition, or operating results are described in
our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K (Item 1A). There has been no
material change in those risk factors.  

20  

Item 2. 
CHANGES IN SECURITIES, USE OF PROCEEDS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES   

The following
table shows our first quarter of fiscal 2006 stock repurchase activity:  

(1)             On July 19, 2005, the company s Board of
Directors authorized the repurchase of 2,000,000 shares of the company s common
stock in open-market or in privately negotiated transactions. This program has
no expiration date but may be terminated by the company s Board of Directors at
any time. The company purchased 663,304 shares during the periods indicated above
under this program, including 398,697 shares repurchased by the company from
current or former employees in connection with the payment of withholding taxes. 

(2)             Includes 3,382 units (shares) of the company s
common stock purchased in open-market transactions at an average price of $46.20
per share on behalf of a rabbi trust formed to pay benefit obligations of the company
to participants in deferred compensation plans. These 3,382 shares were not
repurchased under the company s repurchase program described in footnote (1)
above. 

21  

Item 6.  EXHIBITS   

(a)   

Exhibits  

3(i) and 4(a)  

The Toro Company
  Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant (incorporated
  by reference to Exhibit 3(i) and 4(a) to Registrant s Current Report on Form
  8-K dated March 15, 2005, Commission File No. 1-8649).  

3(ii) and 4(b)  

Bylaws of Registrant
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to Registrant s Current Report on
  Form 8-K dated November 30, 2005, Commission File No. 1-8649).  

4(c)  

Specimen Form of Common
  Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registrant s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K dated October 31, 2004).  

4(d)  

Rights Agreement dated
  as of May 20, 1998, between Registrant and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota,
  National Association relating to rights to purchase Series B Junior
  Participating Voting Preferred Stock, as amended (incorporated by reference
  to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 27, 1998, Commission
  File No. 1-8649).  

4(e)  

Certificate
  of Adjusted Purchase Price or Number of Shares dated April 14, 2003 filed by
  Registrant with Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N.A., as Rights Agent, in
  connection with Rights Agreement dated as of May 20, 1998 (incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant s Amendment No. 1 to Registration
  Statement on Form 8-A/A dated April 14, 2003, Commission File No. 1-8649).  

4(f)  

Certificate
  of Adjusted Purchase Price or Number of Shares dated April 12, 2005 filed by
  Registrant with Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N.A., as Rights Agent, in
  connection with Rights Agreement dated as of May 20, 1998 (incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
  Statement on Form 8-A/A dated March 21, 2005, Commission File No. 1-8649).  

4(g)  

Indenture dated as of
  January 31, 1997, between Registrant and First National Trust Association, as
  Trustee, relating to the Registrant s 7.125% Notes due June 15, 2007 and its
  7.80% Debentures due June 15, 2027 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a)
  to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K for June 24, 1997, Commission File
  No. 1-8649).  

10(a)  

Post-Retirement
  Consulting and Noncompetition Agreement dated as of December 31, 2005 between
  The Toro Company and Kendrick B. Melrose (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 1 to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 31, 2005,
  Commission File No. 1-8649).  

10(b)  

The Toro Company
  Performance Share Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to
  Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 16, 2006, Commission
  File No. 1-8649).  

10(c)  

Form of Nonqualified
  Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to Registrant s
  Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 30, 2005, Commission File No.
  1-8649).  

10(d)  

Form of Performance
  Share Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Registrant s
  Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 30, 2005, Commission File No.
  1-8649).  

31(a)  

Certification of Chief
  Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) (Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
  Act of 2002) (filed herewith).  

31(b)  

Certification of Chief
  Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) (Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
  Act of 2002) (filed herewith).  

32  

Certification
  of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
  Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
  2002 (furnished herewith).  

22  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
authorized.  

THE TORO COMPANY  

  (Registrant)  

Date: March 13, 2006  

By   

/s/ Stephen P. Wolfe  

Stephen P. Wolfe  

Vice President Finance  

and Chief Financial Officer  

(duly authorized officer and principal
  financial officer)  

23  

<EX-31.A>
 2
 a06-6851_1ex31da.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31(a)   

Certification pursuant to 
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

I, Michael J. Hoffman,
certify that:  

1.
I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of The Toro Company; 

2.
Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant
as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible
for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:  

a)                Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;  

b)                 Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;  

c)                  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

d)                 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and  

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

a)                 All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b)                Any fraud, whether or
not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 13, 2006  

/s/ Michael J. Hoffman  

Michael J. Hoffman  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 3
 a06-6851_1ex31db.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31(b)   

Certification pursuant to 
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

I, Stephen P. Wolfe, certify that:  

1.
I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of The Toro Company; 

2.
Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant
as of, and for, the periods presented in the report; 

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible
for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:  

a)                Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;  

b)                 Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;  

c)                  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

d)                 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and  

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):  

a)                 All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b)                Any fraud, whether or
not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 13, 2006  

/s/ Stephen P. Wolfe  

Stephen P. Wolfe  

Vice President Finance and  

Chief Financial Officer  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32>
 4
 a06-6851_1ex32.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  

  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  

  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  

  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In connection with the Quarterly Report of The Toro Company (the  Company )
on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended February 3, 2006 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), we, Michael
J. Hoffman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Stephen
P. Wolfe, Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to our knowledge:  

(1)             The Report fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)             The information
contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Michael J. Hoffman  

Michael J. Hoffman  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

March 13, 2006  

/s/ Stephen
  P. Wolfe  

Stephen P. Wolfe  

Vice President Finance and  

Chief Financial Officer  

March 13, 2006  

This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of
Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

</EX-32>

