<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-Q_edgar_data_1143908_0000950137-06-004044_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>740867</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>134235</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>410941</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>38</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-004044.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331164156
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-004044
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060228
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ACCENTURE SCA
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001143908
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES [8742]
		IRS NUMBER:				000000000
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-49713
		FILM NUMBER:		06729477

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		46A, AVENUE J.F. KENNEDY
		CITY:			L-1855 LUXEMBOURG
		STATE:			N4
		ZIP:			00000
		BUSINESS PHONE:		650-213-2136

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		C/O DOUGLAS SCRIVNER, GENERAL COUNSEL
		STREET 2:		1661 PAGE MILL RD.
		CITY:			PALO ALTO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94304

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 NVN3B7y3TbytXwzrd7dOH1IIGqa7pMrgsjzGunboZ+tiZylYLWC5f/gw+qJMjo4y
 nHLHUThXnfzRYGD+/g99Jw==

 0000950137-06-004044.txt : 20060331

10-Q
 1
 c03884e10vq.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT

e10vq 

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM  10-Q  

(Mark One)  

QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

FOR THE QUARTERLY PERIOD ENDED FEBRUARY 28, 2006  

OR  

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD
    FROM           TO  

Commission File Number: 000-49713 

ACCENTURE SCA 

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 

Luxembourg 

98-0351796  

(State or other jurisdiction of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

46A, Avenue J.F. Kennedy 

L-1855 Luxembourg 

(Address of principal executive offices) 

(352) 26 42 35 00 

(Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer      
     Accelerated filer      
     Non-accelerated filer      

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange
Act).     Yes              No   

The number of shares of the Registrant s Class I
common shares, par value
  
 1.25 per share, outstanding as of March 24,
2006 was 263,632,932.

ACCENTURE SCA 

INDEX 

Page  

Part I.  

Financial Information   

3 

Item 1. 

Financial Statements  

3 

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of February
    28, 2006 (unaudited) and August 31, 2005  

3 

Consolidated Income Statements (unaudited)
    for the three and six months ended February 28, 2006 and 2005  

5 

Consolidated Shareholders  Equity and
    Comprehensive Income Statements (unaudited) for the six months
    ended February 28, 2006  

6 

Consolidated Cash Flows Statements
    (unaudited) for the six months ended February 28, 2006 and
    2005  

7 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    (unaudited)  

8 

Item 2. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

22 

Item 3. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk  

40 

Item 4. 

Controls and Procedures  

40 

Part II.  

Other Information   

40 

Item 1. 

Legal Proceedings  

40 

Item 2. 

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and
    Use of Proceeds; Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

41 

Item 3. 

Defaults upon Senior Securities  

43 

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders  

43 

Item 5. 

Other Information  

43 

Item 6. 

Exhibits  

43 

Signatures  

2

PART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

ACCENTURE SCA 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

February 28, 2006 and August 31, 2005 

(In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per
share amounts) 

3

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these
Consolidated Financial Statements.

4

ACCENTURE SCA 

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS 

For the Three and Six Months Ended February 28, 2006 and
2005 

(In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share amounts) 

(Unaudited) 

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these
Consolidated Financial Statements.

5

ACCENTURE SCA 

CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME STATEMENTS 

For the Six Months Ended February 28, 2006 

(In thousands of U.S. dollars and in thousands of share
amounts) 

(Unaudited) 

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these
Consolidated Financial Statements.

6

ACCENTURE SCA 

CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS 

For the Six Months Ended February 28, 2006 and 2005 

(In thousands of U.S. dollars) 

(Unaudited) 

(1)  
     
    The change in the assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions,
    includes the impact of the $450,000 loss provision recorded by
    the Company during the six months ended February 28, 2006.
    See Footnote 8 (Commitments and Contingencies) to these
    Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these
Consolidated Financial Statements.

7

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

1.   
     
     SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial
Statements of Accenture SCA, a Luxembourg partnership limited by
shares, and its controlled subsidiary companies (the
 Company ) have been prepared pursuant to the rules
and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 SEC ) for quarterly reports on
Form  10-Q  and do
not include all of the information and note disclosures required
by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for
complete financial statements. These Consolidated Financial
Statements should therefore be read in conjunction with the
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the
fiscal year ended August 31, 2005 included in the
Company s Annual Report on
Form  10-K  filed
with the SEC on November 1, 2005. The accompanying
unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements have been
prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles and reflect all adjustments of a normal,
recurring nature that are, in the opinion of management,
necessary for a fair presentation of results for these interim
periods. The results of operations for the three and six months
ended February 28, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of
the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending
August 31, 2006. Certain prior-period amounts have been
reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.

Accenture Ltd ( Accenture ) is a Bermuda holding
company with no material assets other than Accenture SCA
Class II and Class III common shares. Accenture acts
as the sole general partner of the Company and owns a majority
voting interest in the Company. Information regarding various
aspects of the activities of Accenture are described in these
Notes as they affect the financial results and conditions of the
Company.

Revenue Recognition 

Revenues from contracts for technology integration consulting
services where we design/redesign, build and implement new or
enhanced systems applications and related processes for our
clients are recognized on the
 percentage-of -completion
method in accordance with American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants Statement of Position 81-1,   Accounting for
Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type
Contracts   ( SOP 81-1 ).
 Percentage-of -completion
accounting involves calculating the percentage of services
provided during the reporting period compared to the total
estimated services to be provided over the duration of the
contract. Estimated revenues for applying the
 percentage-of -completion
method include estimated incentives for which achievement of
defined goals is deemed probable. This method is followed where
reasonably dependable estimates of revenues and costs can be
made. Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are
continuously monitored during the term of the contract, and
recorded revenues and costs are subject to revision as the
contract progresses. Such revisions may result in increases or
decreases to revenues and income and are reflected in the
Consolidated Financial Statements in the periods in which they
are first identified. If our estimates indicate that a contract
loss will occur, a loss provision is recorded in the period in
which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable.
Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the
estimated direct and indirect costs of the contract exceed the
estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract
and are included in Cost of services. During the three and six
months ended February 28, 2006, the Company recorded a
$450,000 contract loss provision associated with certain large,
long-term contracts (the  NHS Contracts ) under which
the Company has been engaged by the National Health Service in
England (the  NHS ) to design, develop and deploy new
patient administration, assessment and care systems for local
healthcare providers. For information regarding the NHS
Contracts, see Footnote 8 (Commitments and Contingencies)
to these Consolidated Financial Statements below. Except for the
loss provision recorded for the NHS Contracts, loss provisions
have been insignificant.

Revenues from contracts for non-technology integration
consulting services with fees based on time and materials or
cost-plus are recognized as the services are performed and
amounts are earned in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 101,   Revenue Recognition in
Financial Statements  ( SAB 101 ), as
amended by SAB 104,

8

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

Revenue Recognition 
 ( SAB 104 ). We consider amounts to be earned
once evidence of an arrangement has been obtained, services are
delivered, fees are fixed or determinable, and collectibility is
reasonably assured. In such contracts, our efforts, measured by
time incurred, typically represent the contractual milestones or
output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern. For
non-technology integration consulting contracts with fixed fees,
we recognize revenues as amounts become billable in accordance
with contract terms, provided the billable amounts are not
contingent, are consistent with the services delivered, and are
earned. Contingent or incentive revenues relating to
non-technology integration consulting contracts are recognized
when the contingency is satisfied and we conclude the amounts
are earned.

Outsourcing contracts typically span several years and involve
complex delivery, often through multiple workforces in different
countries. In a number of these arrangements, we hire client
employees and become responsible for certain client obligations.
Revenues are recognized on outsourcing contracts as amounts
become billable in accordance with contract terms, unless the
amounts are billed in advance of performance of services in
which case revenues are recognized when the services are
performed and amounts are earned in accordance with
SAB 101, as amended by SAB 104. Revenues from
time-and-materials or cost-plus contracts are recognized as the
services are performed. In such contracts, our effort, measured
by time incurred, represents the contractual milestones or
output measure, which is the contractual earnings pattern.
Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as
transactions are processed based on objective measures of
output. Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognized on a
straight-line basis, unless revenues are earned and obligations
are fulfilled in a different pattern. Outsourcing contracts can
also include incentive payments for benefits delivered to
clients. Revenues relating to such incentive payments are
recorded when the contingency is satisfied and we conclude the
amounts are earned.

Costs related to delivering outsourcing services are expensed as
incurred with the exception of certain transition costs related
to the  set-up  of
processes, personnel and systems, which are deferred during the
transition period and expensed evenly over the period
outsourcing services are provided. The deferred costs are
specific internal costs or incremental external costs directly
related to transition or
 set-up  activities
necessary to enable the outsourced services. Deferred amounts
are protected in the event of early termination of the contract
and are monitored regularly for impairment. Impairment losses
are recorded when projected undiscounted operating cash flows of
the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying
amount of contract assets. Amounts billable to the client for
transition or  set-up 
activities are deferred and recognized as revenue evenly over
the period outsourcing services are provided.

In November 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force
( EITF ) issued a final consensus on
Issue  00-21, 
  Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple
Deliverables 
 ( Issue  00-21 ). 
In May 2003, the EITF issued additional interpretive guidance
regarding the application of
Issue  00-21. 
Issue  00-21,  which
provides guidance on how and when to recognize revenues on
arrangements requiring delivery of more than one product or
service, is effective prospectively for arrangements entered
into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003.
Effective September 1, 2003, the Company adopted
Issue  00-21  on a
prospective basis. The adoption of
Issue  00-21 
reduced revenues by approximately $44,000 and reduced operating
income by approximately $41,000 in fiscal 2004.

Revenues for contracts with multiple elements are allocated
based on the relative fair value of the elements. Fair value is
determined based on the prices charged when each element is sold
separately. Revenues are recognized in accordance with our
accounting policies for the separate elements, as described
above. Elements qualify for separation when the services have
value on a stand-alone basis, fair value of the separate
elements exists and, in arrangements that include a general
right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance
of the undelivered element is considered probable and
substantially in our control. While determining fair value and
identifying separate elements require judgment, generally fair
value and the separate elements are readily identifiable as we
also sell those elements unaccompanied by other elements.

Revenues related to new revenue arrangements with multiple
elements signed after August 31, 2003 are allocated to each
element based on the lesser of the element s relative fair
value or the amount that is not contingent on future

9

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

delivery of another element. If the amount of non-contingent
revenues allocated to a delivered element is less than the costs
to deliver such services, then such costs are deferred and
recognized in future periods when the revenue becomes
non-contingent.

Revenues recognized in excess of billings are recorded as
Unbilled services. Billings in excess of revenues recognized are
recorded as Deferred revenues until revenue recognition criteria
are met.

Revenues before reimbursements include the margin earned on
computer hardware and software, as well as revenues from
alliance agreements. Reimbursements, including those relating to
travel and other
 out-of -pocket expenses,
and other similar third party costs, such as the cost of
hardware and software resales, are included in Revenues, and an
equivalent amount of reimbursable expenses are included in Cost
of services.

Other Significant Accounting Policies 

For a description of the Company s other significant
accounting policies, see Footnote 1 (Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies) to the Company s Consolidated
Financial Statements in the Company s Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
fiscal year ended August 31, 2005.

2.   
     
     SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION  

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
issued SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based Payment
 ( SFAS No. 123R  or the
 Statement ). This Statement is a revision of
SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation  ( SFAS No. 123 ), and
supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB
No. 25 ), and its related implementation guidance. On
September 1, 2005, the Company adopted the provisions of
SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method.
SFAS No. 123R focuses primarily on accounting for
transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in
share-based payment transactions. The Statement requires
entities to recognize compensation expense for awards of equity
instruments to employees based on the grant-date fair value of
those awards (with limited exceptions). SFAS No. 123R
also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of
recognized compensation expense to be reported as a financing
cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as prescribed
under the prior accounting rules. This requirement reduces net
operating cash flows and increases net financing cash flows in
periods after adoption. Total cash flow remains unchanged from
what would have been reported under prior accounting rules. Upon
the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company recognized
an immaterial one-time gain based on
SFAS No. 123R s requirement to apply an estimated
forfeiture rate to unvested awards. Previously, the Company
recorded forfeitures as incurred.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company
followed the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB
No. 25 to account for its employee stock options and share
purchase rights. Accordingly, no compensation expense was
recognized for share purchase rights granted in connection with
the issuance of stock options under the Accenture Ltd
2001 Share Incentive Plan (the  SIP ) and through
the Accenture Ltd 2001 Employee Share Purchase Plan (the
 ESPP  however, compensation expense was recognized
in connection with the issuance of restricted share units
granted under the SIP. The adoption of SFAS No. 123R
primarily resulted in a change in the Company s method of
recognizing the fair value of share-based compensation and
estimating forfeitures for all unvested awards. Specifically,
the adoption of SFAS No. 123R resulted in the
recording of compensation expense for employee stock options and
employee share purchase rights. The following table shows the
effect of adopting

10

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

SFAS No. 123R on selected reported items ( As
Reported ) and what those items would have been under
previous guidance under APB No. 25:

Results for fiscal 2005 have not been restated. The
Company s employees participate in Accenture s various
share programs and the expenses and costs associated with their
participation are borne by the Company. Had compensation expense
for employee stock options granted under the SIP and for
employee share purchase rights under the ESPP been determined
based on fair value at the grant date consistent with
SFAS No. 123, with stock options expensed using the
accelerated expense attribution method, the Company s Net
income for the three and six months ended February 28, 2005
would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

Share Incentive Plan 

The SIP is administered by the Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors of Accenture and provides for the grant of
nonqualified share options, incentive stock options, restricted
share units and other share-based awards to approved
participants, including the Company s senior executives and
employees. A maximum of 375,000,000 Accenture Ltd Class A
common shares are currently authorized for awards under the SIP.
As of February 28, 2006, 165,842,526 shares were
available for future grants under the SIP. Accenture Ltd
Class A common shares covered by awards that expire,
terminate or lapse will again be available for the grant of
awards under the SIP.

Accenture issues new Accenture Ltd Class A common shares
and shares from treasury for shares delivered under the SIP. The
parameters of the share purchase and redemption activities of
Accenture and the Company are not established solely with
reference to the dilutive impact of deliveries made under the
SIP. However, Accenture expects that, over time, share purchases
will offset the dilutive impact of deliveries to be made under
the SIP.

11

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

A summary of information with respect to share-based
compensation was as follows:

Stock Options   

Stock options are granted to the Company s senior
executives and other employees under the SIP. Options generally
have an exercise price that is at least equal to the fair value
of the Accenture Ltd Class A common shares on the date the
option is granted. Options granted under the SIP are subject to
cliff or graded vesting, generally ranging from three to
10 years, and generally have a contractual term of
10 years. For awards with graded vesting, compensation
expense is recognized over the vesting period of each separately
vesting portion. Compensation expense is recognized on a
straight-line basis for awards with cliff vesting. Stock option
activity for the six months ended February 28, 2006 was as
follows:

Other information pertaining to option activity during the three
and six months ended February 28, 2006 was as follows:

For the six months ended February 28, 2006, cash received
from the exercise of stock options was $182,620 and the income
tax benefit realized from the exercise of stock options was
$50,184. As of February 28, 2006, there was $85,536 of
total stock option compensation expense related to nonvested
awards not yet recognized, which is expected to be recognized
over a weighted average period of 1.4 years.

12

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
following weighted average assumptions:

(1)  
     
    No stock options were granted to  Other Employees 
    during the six months ended February 28, 2006. 

For the three and six months ended February 28, 2006, the
expected life of each award granted was calculated using the
 simplified method  in accordance with Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 107. For the three and six
months ended February 28, 2005, the Company used a
projected expected life for each award granted based on
historical experience of employees  exercise behavior.
Expected volatility is based on historical volatility levels of
Accenture Ltd Class A common shares. The risk-free interest
rate is based on the implied yield currently available on
U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with a remaining term
equal to the expected life. Expected dividend yield is based on
historical dividend payments.

Restricted Share Units   

Under the SIP, participants, including the Company s senior
executives and employees, may be granted restricted share units,
each of which represents an unfunded, unsecured right, which is
nontransferable except in the event of death of the participant,
to receive an Accenture Ltd Class A common share on the
date specified in the participant s award agreement. The
restricted share units granted under this plan are subject to
cliff or graded vesting, generally ranging from three to
10 years. For awards with graded vesting, compensation
expense is recognized over the vesting term of each separately
vesting portion. Compensation expense is recognized on a
straight-line basis for awards with cliff vesting. Restricted
share unit activity for the six months ended February 28,
2006 was as follows:

As of February 28, 2006, there was $485,758 of total
restricted share unit compensation expense related to nonvested
awards not yet recognized, which is expected to be recognized
over a weighted average period of 2.6 years. As of
February 28, 2006, there were 13,838,322 restricted share
units vested but not yet delivered as Accenture Ltd Class A
common shares.

Employee Share Purchase Plan 

The ESPP is a nonqualified plan that allows eligible employee
participants of the Company to purchase Accenture Ltd
Class A common shares at a discount through after-tax
payroll deductions. Under this plan,

13

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

substantially all employees may elect to contribute 1% to 10% of
their compensation during each semi-annual offering period (up
to a per participant maximum of $15 per calendar year) to
purchase Accenture Ltd Class A common shares. The purchase
price of the Accenture Ltd Class A common shares is 85% of
the end of each offering period market price. A maximum of
75,000,000 Accenture Ltd Class A common shares are
currently authorized for issuance under the ESPP and, as of
February 28, 2006, there were 35,332,886 shares
reserved for future issuance under the ESPP.

3.   
     
     RESTRUCTURING AND REORGANIZATION (BENEFITS) COSTS  

Restructuring 

In fiscal 2002, the Company recognized restructuring costs of
$110,524 related to a global consolidation of office space,
consisting of $67,112 to consolidate various locations and
$43,412 to abandon the related fixed assets. In fiscal 2004, the
Company recognized restructuring costs of $107,256, primarily in
the United States and the United Kingdom, consisting of $89,331
to consolidate various locations and $17,925 to abandon the
related fixed assets. The fiscal 2004 restructuring costs were
allocated to the reportable operating segments as follows:
$26,952 to Communications & High Tech; $23,579 to
Financial Services; $15,774 to Government; $23,491 to Products;
and $17,460 to Resources.

The Company s restructuring activity was as follows:

(1)  
     
    Other primarily represents immaterial changes in lease
    estimates, imputed interest and foreign currency translation. 

As of February 28, 2006, restructuring liabilities were
$61,746, of which $16,637 was included in Other accrued
liabilities and $45,109 was included in Other non-current
liabilities. The recorded liabilities represent the net present
value of the estimated remaining obligations related to existing
operating leases. Other than immaterial changes in lease
estimates, there have been no adjustments to the original
liabilities recorded and Accenture does not expect to make
future material adjustments.

Reorganization 

In fiscal 2001, the Company accrued reorganization liabilities
in connection with its transition to a corporate structure.
These liabilities included certain non-income tax liabilities,
such as stamp taxes, as well as liabilities for certain
individual income tax exposures related to the transfer of
interests in certain entities to the Company as part of the
reorganization. These reorganization liabilities bear interest
at regulatory rates applicable in the jurisdictions in which the
Company expects to pay the taxes. Interest accruals are made
based on these regulatory rates and represent the amount of
interest necessary to settle these liabilities.

14

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

The Company s reorganization activity was as follows:

(1)  
     
    Includes final agreements with tax authorities and expirations
    of statutes of limitations. 

As of February 28, 2006, reorganization liabilities of
$249,215 were included in Other accrued liabilities because
expirations of statutes of limitations could occur within
12 months, and reorganization liabilities of $125,309 were
included in Other non-current liabilities. The Company
anticipates that reorganization liabilities will be
substantially diminished by the end of fiscal 2008 because the
final statutes of limitations will have expired in a number of
tax jurisdictions by the end of that year. However, tax audits
or litigation may delay final settlements. Final settlement will
result in a payment on a final settlement and/or recording a
reorganization benefit or cost in the Company s
Consolidated Income Statement.

4.   
     
     ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS  

The components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss were as
follows:

Comprehensive income was as follows:

15

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable
operating segment for the six months ended February 28,
2006 were as follows:

(1)  
     
    Additions/ Adjustments primarily represents acquisitions made in
    the current quarter. 

6.   
     
     PROFIT SHARING AND RETIREMENT PLANS  

In the United States and certain other countries, the Company
maintains and administers retirement plans and postretirement
medical plans for certain current, retired and resigned
employees of the Company. The components of net periodic pension
and postretirement expense were as follows:

16

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

7.   
     
     MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY  

Share Purchase Activity 

Since April 2002, the Board of Directors of Accenture has
authorized funding for redemptions and purchases of shares of
the Company and its subsidiaries held by certain current and
former employees and their permitted

17

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

transferees. The following table summarizes the application of
these funds towards the Company s share purchase activity
during the six months ended February 28, 2006:

(1)  
     
    Includes 17,017,398 Accenture SCA Class I common shares
    redeemed or purchased for a total cash outlay of $501,869 and
    240,929 Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares
    purchased for a total cash outlay of $6,940. 

(2)  
     
    Includes 10,939,355 Accenture Ltd Class A common shares
    purchased by a subsidiary of the Company for an aggregate
    purchase price of $235,431. 

(3)  
     
    Includes 231,758 shares purchased through the RSU Sell-Back
    Program whereby the Company offers to purchase Accenture Ltd
    Class A common shares awarded to employees pursuant to
    restricted share units issued in connection with its initial
    public offering for a total cash outlay of $6,659. The RSU
    Sell-Back Program was terminated, effective March 1, 2006.
    All remaining funds for the RSU Sell-Back Program were
    reallocated and made available for use in the Company s
    other share purchase programs. 

(4)  
     
    On March 24, 2006, an additional $1,000,000 was authorized
    for redemptions and purchases under the Company s share
    purchase programs. 

In addition, the following share transactions occurred during
the six months ended February 28, 2006:

On September 14, 2005, the Company made a tender offer to
    Accenture SCA Class I common shareholders that resulted in
    the redemption and purchase on October 14, 2005 of an
    aggregate of 35,922,744 Accenture SCA Class I common shares
    at a price of $21.50 per share. The total cash outlay for
    this transaction was $774,519 and was separately authorized by
    the Board of Directors of Accenture. 

As authorized under its various employee equity share plans, the
    Company acquired an aggregate of 161,869 Accenture Ltd
    Class A common shares via share withholding for payroll tax
    obligations due from the Company s employees and former
    employees in connection with the delivery of Accenture Ltd
    Class A common shares under those plans. 

Other 

Pursuant to the Company s Articles of Association, all
Accenture SCA Class I common shares sold or otherwise
transferred to Accenture or its subsidiaries are automatically
reclassified into Accenture SCA Class III common shares.
The August 31, 2005 balance and share count for Accenture
SCA Class I and Class III common shares have been
reclassified to reflect that 270,723,520 Accenture SCA
Class I common shares that were sold or otherwise
transferred to Accenture or its subsidiaries on or before
August 31, 2005 were reclassified into Accenture SCA
Class III common shares on or before August 31, 2005.

Dividend 

On November 15, 2005, a cash dividend of $0.30 per
share was paid on Accenture Ltd s Class A common
shares to shareholders of record at the close of business on
October 17, 2005, resulting in a cash outlay of $171,696.
On November 15, 2005, a cash dividend of $0.30 per
share was also paid on Accenture SCA s Class I common
shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares to
shareholders of record at the close of business on
October 12, 2005 and October 17, 2005, respectively,
resulting in cash outlays of $94,972 and $1,305, respectively.
The payment of the cash dividends also resulted in the issuance
of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to
holders of restricted share units. Share amounts have been
restated for all periods presented to reflect this issuance.

18

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

Class III Common Shares  

Accenture SCA Class III common shares, including the
lettered sub-series of this class, have a par value of 1.25
euros per share. Information related to all Class III
common shares is as follows:

8.   
     
     COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  

Guarantees 

As a result of its increase in ownership of Accenture HR
Services from 50% to 100% in February 2002, the Company may be
required to make up to $177,500 of additional purchase price
payments through September 30, 2008, conditional on
Accenture HR Services achieving certain levels of qualifying
revenues. The remaining potential liability as of
February 28, 2006 was $158,635.

The Company has various agreements in which it may be obligated
to indemnify other parties with respect to certain matters.
Generally, these indemnification provisions are included in
contracts arising in the normal course of business under which
the Company customarily agrees to hold the indemnified party
harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations
related to matters such as title to assets sold and licensed or
certain intellectual property rights. Payments by the Company
under such indemnification clauses are generally conditioned on
the other party making a claim. Such claims are typically
subject to challenge by the Company and to dispute resolution
procedures specified in the particular contract. Further, the
Company s obligations under these agreements may be limited
in terms of time and/or amount and, in some instances, the
Company may have recourse against third parties for certain
payments made by the Company. It is not possible to predict the
maximum potential amount of future payments under these
indemnification agreements due to the conditional nature of the
Company s obligations and the unique facts of each
particular agreement. Historically, the Company has not made any
payments under these agreements that have been material
individually or in the aggregate. As of February 28, 2006,
management was not aware of any obligations arising under
indemnification contracts that would require material payments.

19

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

From time to time, the Company enters into contracts with
clients whereby it has joint and several liability with other
participants and third parties providing related services and
products to clients. Under these arrangements, the Company and
other parties may assume some responsibility to the client for
the performance of others under the terms and conditions of the
contract with or for the benefit of the client. In some
arrangements, the extent of the Company s obligations for
the performance of others is not expressly specified. The
Company estimates that as of February 28, 2006, it had
assumed an aggregate potential liability of approximately
$1,246,080 to its clients for the performance of others under
arrangements described in this paragraph. These contracts
typically provide recourse provisions that would allow the
Company to recover from the other parties all but approximately
$123,275 if the Company is obligated to make payments to the
clients that are the consequence of a performance default by the
other parties. To date, the Company has not been required to
make any payments under any of the contracts described in this
paragraph.

The NHS Contracts 

Under the NHS Contracts, the Company has been engaged by the NHS
to design, develop and deploy new patient administration,
assessment and care systems (the  Systems ) for local
healthcare providers and, subsequently, to provide ongoing
operational services (the  Operational Services )
through 2013 once these Systems have been deployed. For the
purposes of financial reporting, these components of the NHS
Contracts have been separated into two units of accounting as
described below. The revenues and costs from the NHS Contracts
are apportioned equally between the Government and Products
operating groups.

Design, Development and
Deployment of the Systems  

The Company recognizes revenues in connection with the design,
development and deployment of the Systems on the
 percentage-of -completion
method of accounting under SOP 81-1. Estimates of contract
revenues and costs in connection with the design, development
and deployment of the Systems are subject to underlying
estimates and assumptions, including, among others, those
relating to the Company s ability to design, develop and
deploy the Systems on a timely basis; the ability of the
Company s subcontractors and others involved in the program
to perform adequately and on a timely basis; the level and
timing of demand for the Systems from local healthcare
providers; and the Company s and the NHS  ability to
agree on detailed implementation plans and other terms of the
engagement.

During the three months ended February 28, 2006, there were
several developments that significantly increased the risks and
uncertainties associated with this engagement and materially
impacted the Company s estimates of the contract revenues
and costs that are expected to be recorded in connection with
the design, development and deployment of the Systems. Due to
these revised estimates, the Company has recorded a $450,000
aggregate loss provision that is reflected in cost of services
of its Government and Products operating groups for the three
and six months ended February 28, 2006 and which is
recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as a reduction of
$442,000 of client financing included in Current and Non-current
unbilled services and as an $8,000 contract loss liability.

If the Company s estimates of contract revenues or costs
for the design, development and deployment of the Systems are
further negatively affected because one or more of its
underlying estimates or assumptions proves to be incorrect or
changing circumstances, including a change in its approach to
the engagement, require the Company to modify one or more of its
underlying estimates or assumptions, the Company may determine
the need for additional loss provisions that could be material
to its results of operations.

Operational Services   

The Company records costs as they are incurred and records
revenues as the services are performed and amounts are earned in
connection with the Operational Services. The Company has
incurred annual losses in connection with the Operational
Services. Further adverse developments in connection with the
engagement could cause the Company

20

ACCENTURE SCA 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

(In thousands of U.S. Dollars, except share and per
share amounts or as otherwise disclosed) 

(Unaudited) 

to experience additional or increased levels of losses with
respect to the Operational Services in the future that could be
material to its results of operations. In particular, under the
current billing arrangements, further delays in deployments of
Systems could have a disproportionate, adverse impact on service
revenue growth and, accordingly, losses.

Legal Contingencies 

As of February 28, 2006, Accenture or its present personnel
had been named as a defendant in various litigation matters.
Based on the present status of these litigation matters, the
management of Accenture believes these matters will not
ultimately have a material effect on the results of operations,
financial position or cash flows of Accenture.

9.   
     
     SEGMENT REPORTING  

Operating segments are defined by SFAS No. 131,
 Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information,  as components of an enterprise about which
separate financial information is available that is evaluated
regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or
decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and
in assessing performance.

The Company s chief operating decision maker is its Chief
Executive Officer. The Company s operating segments are
managed separately because each operating segment represents a
strategic business unit that provides management consulting,
technology and outsourcing services to clients in different
industries.

The Company s reportable operating segments are its five
operating groups, which are Communications & High Tech,
Financial Services, Government, Products and Resources. Revenues
before reimbursements and operating income (loss) by reportable
operating segment were as follows:

21

ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion and analysis should be read in
conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and
related Notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on
Form  10-Q  and in
our Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended August 31, 2005, and with the information under
the heading  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in our
Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended August 31, 2005. 

We use the terms  we,   our Company, 
 our  and  us  in this report to refer to
Accenture SCA and its subsidiaries. All references to years,
unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on
August 31. For example, a reference to  fiscal
2005  or  fiscal year 2005  means the
 12-month  period that
ended on August 31, 2005. All references to quarters,
unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of our fiscal
year. 

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

This Quarterly Report on
Form  10-Q  contains
forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
 Exchange Act ) relating to our operations, results of
operations and other matters that are based on our current
expectations, estimates and projections. Words such as
 expects,   intends,   plans, 
 projects,   believes, 
 estimates  and similar expressions are used to
identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are
not guarantees of future performance and involve risks,
uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to
future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes
and results may differ materially from what is expressed or
forecast in these forward-looking statements. The reasons for
these differences include changes in general economic and
political conditions, including fluctuations in currency
exchange rates, and the following factors:

Our results of operations are materially affected by economic
    and political conditions, levels of business activity and rates
    of change in the industries we serve, as well as by the pace of
    technological change and the type and level of technology
    spending by our clients. 

Our business will be negatively affected if we are not able to
    anticipate and keep pace with rapid changes in technology or if
    growth in the use of technology in business is not as rapid as
    in the past. 

We may face damage to our professional reputation or legal
    liability if our clients are not satisfied with our services. 

Our contracts with clients may not be profitable or may be
    terminated by our clients on short notice. 

As our work with government clients increases, so does our
    exposure to various risks inherent in the government contracting
    process. 

Our global operations involve many complex risks, some of which
    may be beyond our control. 

The consulting, technology and outsourcing markets are highly
    competitive and the pace of consolidation, as well as vertical
    integration, among our competitors continues to increase. As a
    result, we may not be able to compete effectively if we cannot
    efficiently respond to these developments in a timely manner. 

If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate employees, we
    will not be able to compete effectively and will not be able to
    grow our business. 

Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain our
    pricing and utilization rates and control our costs. A
    continuation of current pricing pressures could result in
    permanent changes in pricing policies and delivery capabilities. 

Our quarterly revenues, operating results and profitability will
    vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in increased
    volatility of the share price of Accenture Ltd Class A
    common shares, which, in turn, will affect the current market
    value of Accenture SCA s Class I common shares. 

22

We continue to achieve greater percentages of revenues and
    growth through outsourcing. This continued outsourcing growth
    could result in higher concentrations of revenues and
    contributions to income from a smaller number of our larger
    clients on customized outsourcing solutions or, in the case of
    our more-standardized business process outsourcing services,
    from larger numbers of clients for whom we provide these
    more-standardized services. As our outsourcing business
    continues to grow, we may continue to experience increased
    pressure on our overall margins, particularly during the early
    stages of new outsourcing contracts. 

On certain complex contracts where we partner with third
    parties, our ability to perform may be adversely affected if
    these third parties cannot deliver their contributions in a
    timely manner. Clients are increasingly demanding that we
    guarantee the performance of these third parties, whom we do not
    control. 

We may be exposed to potential risks if we are unable to
    maintain effective internal controls. 

Tax legislation, future legislation and negative publicity
    related to Bermuda companies such as our parent, Accenture Ltd
    ( Accenture ), may lead to an increase in our tax
    burden or affect our relationships with our clients. 

Our services or solutions may infringe upon the intellectual
    property rights of others. 

We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual
    property rights, which are important to our success. 

If our alliances do not succeed, we may not be successful in
    implementing our growth strategy. 

The share price of Accenture Ltd Class A common shares and,
    consequently, the market value of Accenture SCA Class I
    common shares, may be adversely affected from time to time by
    sales, or the anticipation of future sales, of Accenture Ltd
    Class A common shares held by our employees and former
    employees or received upon the redemption of Accenture SCA
    Class I common shares. 

We may need additional capital in the future, and this capital
    may not be available to us. The raising of additional capital
    may dilute shareholders  ownership in Accenture. 

We are registered in Luxembourg, and a significant portion of
    our assets is located outside the United States. As a result, it
    may not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability
    provisions of the Federal or state securities laws of the United
    States. 

Luxembourg law differs from the laws in effect in the United
    States and may afford less protection to shareholders. 

For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the
information under the heading  Business   Risk
Factors  in our Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended August 31, 2005. We undertake no obligation to
update or revise any forward-looking statements.

Overview 

Revenues are driven by the ability of our executives to secure
new contracts and to deliver solutions and services that add
value to our clients. Our ability to add value to clients and
therefore drive revenues depends in part on our ability to
deliver market-leading service offerings and to deploy skilled
teams of professionals quickly and on a global basis.

Our results of operations are also affected by the economic
conditions, levels of business activity and rates of change in
the industries we serve, as well as by the pace of technological
change and the type and level of technology spending by our
clients. The ability to identify and capitalize on these market
and technological changes early in their cycles is a key driver
of our performance. The current economic environment continues
to stimulate the technology spending of many companies. We are
also continuing to see an increase in the number of
opportunities from companies seeking revenue-generating
initiatives in the global economy in addition to cost-cutting
initiatives. We continue to expect that revenue growth rates
across our segments may continue to vary from quarter to quarter
during fiscal 2006 as economic conditions vary in different
industrial and geographic markets.

As previously reported, we have certain large, long-term
contracts under which we have been engaged by the National
Health Service in England to design, develop and deploy new
patient administration, assessment and care

23

systems for local healthcare providers and, subsequently, to
provide ongoing operational services through 2013 once these
systems have been deployed. During the second quarter of fiscal
2006 there were several developments that have significantly
increased the risks and uncertainties associated with these
contracts and materially impacted our estimates of the contract
revenues and costs we expect to record in connection with this
engagement. To reflect our revised estimates with respect to
design, development and deployment, we have recorded a
$450 million loss provision. For the three months ended
February 28, 2006, this loss provision had the effect,
after the impact on bonus compensation and income taxes, of
reducing our operating income by $342 million and our
income before minority interest by $237 million. In
addition, in connection with the operational services, we expect
losses in fiscal 2006 that are comparable to our aggregate
losses on the NHS Contracts for fiscal 2005 (approximately
$140 million) and moderately higher losses in fiscal 2007.
We expect to drive annual losses down significantly thereafter.
See     The NHS Contracts  below.

Revenues before reimbursements for the three and six months
ended February 28, 2006 were $4.10 billion and
$8.27 billion, respectively, compared with
$3.81 billion and $7.54 billion, respectively, for the
three and six months ended February 28, 2005, increases of
8% and 10%, respectively, in U.S. dollars and 13% and 12%,
respectively, in local currency.

Outsourcing revenues before reimbursements for the three and six
months ended February 28, 2006 were $1.64 billion and
$3.23 billion, respectively, compared with
$1.51 billion and $2.86 billion, respectively, for the
three and six months ended February 28, 2005, increases of
8% and 13%, respectively, in U.S. dollars and 13% and 15%,
respectively, in local currency. Outsourcing contracts typically
have longer terms than consulting contracts and generally have
lower gross margins than consulting contracts, particularly in
the first year. The average size of most new outsourcing
opportunities we have seen since early fiscal 2005 have been
smaller than those contracts we executed in fiscal 2004.
Consequently, in the near-term, some of our operating groups may
experience relatively lower rates of revenue growth in fiscal
2006 compared to corresponding periods in fiscal 2005. Long-term
relationships with many of our clients continue to contribute to
our success in growing our outsourcing business. Long-term,
complex outsourcing contracts, including their consulting
components, require ongoing review of their terms and scope of
work, in light of our clients  evolving business needs and
our performance expectations. Should the size or number of
modifications to these arrangements increase, as our business
continues to grow and these contracts evolve, we may experience
increased variability in expected cash flows, revenues and
profitability.

Consulting revenues before reimbursements for the three and six
months ended February 28, 2006 were $2.47 billion and
$5.04 billion, respectively, compared with
$2.30 billion and $4.68 billion, respectively, for the
three and six months ended February 28, 2005, increases of
7% and 8%, respectively, in U.S. dollars and 13% and 11%,
respectively, in local currency.

As a global company, our revenues are denominated in multiple
currencies and may be significantly affected by currency
exchange-rate fluctuations. During fiscal 2005, the
strengthening of various currencies versus the U.S. dollar
resulted in favorable currency translation and increased our
reported revenues, operating expenses and operating income. In
the first and second quarters of fiscal 2006, the
U.S. dollar strengthened against other currencies,
resulting in less-favorable currency translation and lower
reported U.S. dollar revenues, operating expenses and
operating income. If the U.S. dollar retains its strength
in fiscal 2006, our U.S. dollar revenue growth may be lower
than our growth in local currency terms.

The primary categories of operating expenses include cost of
services, sales and marketing and general and administrative
costs. Cost of services is primarily driven by the cost of
client-service personnel, which consists mainly of compensation,
sub-contractor and other personnel costs, and non-payroll
outsourcing costs. Cost of services as a percentage of revenues
is driven by the prices we obtain for our solutions and
services; the utilization of our client-service workforces; and
the level of non-payroll costs associated with the growth of new
outsourcing contracts. Utilization represents the percentage of
our professionals  time spent on billable work. Sales and
marketing expense is driven primarily by business-development
activities; the development of new service offerings; the level
of concentration of clients in a particular industry or market;
and client-targeting, image-development and brand-recognition
activities. General and administrative costs primarily include
costs for non-client-facing personnel, information systems and
office space, which we seek to manage at levels consistent with
changes in activity levels in

24

our business. Operating expenses also include reorganization
benefits and costs, which may vary substantially from year to
year.

Effective September 1, 2005, we adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123R,
 Share-Based Payment
 ( SFAS No. 123R ), resulting in a change
in our method of recognizing share-based compensation expense.
Specifically, we now record compensation expense for employee
stock options and for our employee share purchase plan. Had we
expensed employee stock options and employee share purchase
rights for the three and six months ended February 28,
2005, we estimate that share-based compensation expense would
have increased by $51 million and $82 million,
respectively. We expect to increase the use of restricted share
units and reduce the use of stock options in our employee
incentive awards for fiscal 2006, resulting in total share-based
compensation expense that is comparable to our fiscal 2005 pro
forma share-based compensation expense. For additional
information, see Footnote 2 (Share-based Compensation) to
our Consolidated Financial Statements above under Item 1,
 Financial Statements. 

Gross margins (revenues before reimbursements less cost of
services before reimbursements) as a percentage of revenues
before reimbursements for the three and six months ended
February 28, 2006 were 21.2% and 26.5%, respectively,
compared with 30.8% and 31.7%, respectively, for the three and
six months ended February 28, 2005. The decreases in gross
margins were principally due to the $450 million loss
provision associated with the NHS Contracts recorded during the
second quarter of fiscal 2006 and higher share-based
compensation expense as a result of adoption of
SFAS No. 123R.

Our cost-management strategy is to anticipate changes in demand
for our services and to identify cost-management initiatives. A
primary element of this strategy is to aggressively plan and
manage our payroll costs to meet the anticipated demand for our
services, given that payroll costs are the most significant
portion of our operating expenses.

Attrition in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 was 16%, lower
than the 19% attrition rate we experienced in the first quarter
of fiscal 2006. We continue to add substantial numbers of new
employees and will continue to actively recruit new employees to
balance our mix of skills and resources to meet current and
projected future demands, replace departing employees and expand
our global sourcing approach, which includes our network of
delivery centers and other capabilities around the world. Our
margins and ability to grow our business could be adversely
affected if we do not continue to stabilize attrition and if we
do not effectively utilize and assimilate substantial numbers of
new employees into our workforces.

Sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a
percentage of revenues before reimbursements were 18% and 19%,
respectively, for the three and six months ended
February 28, 2006, compared with 19% and 20%, respectively,
for the three and six months ended February 28, 2005. The
decreases in these costs as a percentage of revenues before
reimbursements were primarily due to lower spending in
geographic facilities and technology costs and favorable effects
of foreign currency exchange.

Operating income as a percentage of revenues before
reimbursements decreased to 3.3% and 7.9%, respectively, for the
three and six months ended February 28, 2006, from 12.4%
and 12.3%, respectively, for the three and six months ended
February 28, 2005. Had we expensed employee stock options
and employee share purchase rights for the three and six months
ended February 28, 2005, we estimate that operating income
as a percentage of revenues before reimbursements for the three
and six months ended February 28, 2005 would have decreased
by 1.4 and 1.1 percentage points, respectively. The
decreases in operating income as a percentage of revenues before
reimbursements were principally due to the $450 million
loss provision associated with the NHS Contracts recorded during
the second quarter of fiscal 2006.

The NHS Contracts 

As previously reported, we have certain large, long-term
contracts (the  NHS Contracts ) under which we have
been engaged by the National Health Service in England (the
 NHS ) to design, develop and deploy new patient
administration, assessment and care systems (the
 Systems ) for local healthcare providers and,
subsequently, to provide ongoing operational services (the
 Operational Services ) through 2013 once these
Systems have been deployed. For the purposes of our financial
reporting, we have separated these components of the NHS
Contracts into

25

two units of accounting as described below. The revenues and
costs from the NHS Contracts are apportioned equally between our
Government and Products operating groups.

Design, Development and Deployment of the Systems   

We recognize revenues in connection with the design, development
and deployment of the Systems on the percentage-of-completion
method of accounting under SOP 81-1. Percentage-of-completion
accounting involves calculating the percentage of services
provided during the reporting period compared with the total
estimated services to be provided over the duration of the
contract. Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are
continuously monitored during the term of the contract, and
recorded revenues and costs are subject to revision as the
contract progresses. Such revisions may result in increases or
decreases to revenues and income and are reflected in the
periods in which they are first identified. If our estimates at
any point indicate that costs will exceed revenues, a loss
provision for the full anticipated loss is recorded in the
period it is first identified.

Our estimates of contract revenues and costs in connection with
the design, development and deployment of the Systems are
subject to underlying estimates and assumptions, including,
among others, those relating to our ability to design, develop
and deploy the Systems on a timely basis; the ability of our
subcontractors and others involved in the program to perform
adequately and on a timely basis; the level and timing of demand
for the Systems from local healthcare providers; and our and the
NHS  ability to agree on detailed implementation plans and
other terms of the engagement. Each of these areas presents
significant risks and challenges for us.

During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, there were several
developments that significantly increased the risks and
uncertainties associated with this engagement and materially
impacted our estimates of the contract revenues and costs that
we expect to record in connection with the design, development
and deployment of the Systems. These developments included,
among other things, the following:

We completed a detailed review of the status and availability of
    certain application software to be provided by one of our major
    subcontractors, which led us to conclude that the delivery and
    deployment of key components of the Systems will be
    significantly delayed. Due to these delays, we expect that we
    will deploy a larger number of interim Systems over a longer
    period of time in order to meet the short-term needs of local
    healthcare providers, which will increase our costs. In
    addition, we expect these delays to reduce demand for our
    Systems because they may cause some local healthcare providers
    to seek solutions from outside the NHS program and eventually
    not to implement our new Systems when they become available. 

During the second quarter, we modified our planned deployment
    approach, increasing the expected percentage of deployments from
    one of our two primary care solutions. We expect this will
    increase our integration costs. We also expect that integration
    and regression testing costs will increase due to recent
    information regarding delivery plans for the national
     spine  into which the Systems we deploy will connect. 

We also now have a greater experience of deploying Systems.
    During the second quarter, we deployed for the first time a
    substantial release of software in an acute NHS facility. Our
    experiences have led us to expect a greater need to customize
    interim Systems, which we expect to increase our costs. 

During the second quarter, we have seen a reduction in demand
    for Systems from local healthcare providers. We believe this was
    due primarily to the delay in the availability of certain
    application software described above and the announced
    governmental initiative to allow general practitioners to
    upgrade existing systems or deploy alternate systems. While the
    NHS Contracts require us to develop new Systems and incur the
    costs associated with such activities, local healthcare
    providers, as independent statutory bodies, can choose whether
    and when Systems are deployed, and we are entitled to receive
    payments only when Systems are deployed. As a result, this new,
    increased uncertainty as to the timing and level of deployment
    demand has caused us to revise our estimates as to the amount of
    revenue that we expect to receive in connection with the NHS
    Contracts. 

We are working with the NHS and our major subcontractor to
resolve the software development and delivery problems. In
addition, we are exploring all options with respect to the NHS
Contracts.

26

Due to our revised estimates resulting from the above-described
developments, we have recorded a $450 million aggregate
loss provision that is reflected in cost of services of our
Government and Products operating groups for the second quarter
of fiscal 2006 and which is recorded on our Consolidated Balance
Sheet as a reduction of $442 million of client financing
included in Current and Non-current unbilled services and as an
$8 million contract loss liability. As a result of the
adverse impact of this loss provision on our results of
operations, bonus compensation was $108 million lower than
otherwise would have been recorded in the second quarter of
fiscal 2006 under the terms of our annual bonus plan. In
addition, this loss provision resulted in a $105 million
decrease in our provision for income taxes in the second quarter
of fiscal 2006 due to our lower income before income taxes.
Accordingly, for the three months ended February 28, 2006,
the loss provision associated with the NHS Contracts had the
effect, after the impact on bonus compensation and income taxes,
of reducing our operating income by $342 million and our
income before minority interest by $237 million.

If our estimates of contract revenues or costs for the design,
development and deployment of the Systems are further negatively
affected because one or more of our underlying estimates or
assumptions proves to be incorrect or changing circumstances,
including a change in our approach to the engagement, require us
to modify one or more of our underlying estimates or
assumptions, we may determine the need for additional loss
provisions that could be material to our results of operations.

Operational Services   

We record costs as they are incurred and record revenues as the
services are performed and amounts are earned in connection with
the Operational Services. In connection with the Operational
Services, we expect losses in fiscal 2006 that are comparable to
our aggregate losses on the NHS Contracts for fiscal 2005
(approximately $140 million) and moderately higher losses
in fiscal 2007. We expect to drive annual losses down
significantly thereafter. Further adverse developments in
connection with the engagement could cause us to experience
additional or increased levels of losses with respect to the
Operational Services in the future that could be material to our
results of operations. In particular, under the current billing
arrangements, further delays in deployments of Systems could
have a disproportionate, adverse impact on service revenue
growth and, accordingly, losses.

Bookings and Backlog 

New contract bookings for the three months ended
February 28, 2006 were $4,326 million, a decrease of
$549 million, or 11%, from the three months ended
February 28, 2005, with consulting bookings decreasing by
10%, to $2,538 million, and outsourcing bookings decreasing
by 13%, to $1,788 million. New contract bookings for the
six months ended February 28, 2006 were
$9,867 million, an increase of $962 million, or 11%,
over the six months ended February 28, 2005, with
consulting bookings increasing by 11%, to $5,314 million,
and outsourcing bookings increasing by 10%, to
$4,553 million. The increase in new contract bookings for
the first six months of fiscal 2006 was attributable to strong
contract signings in our Americas and Asia Pacific regions and
in all types of work.

We provide information regarding our new contract bookings
because we believe doing so provides useful trend information
regarding changes in the volume of our new business over time.
However, the timing of large new contract bookings can
significantly affect the level of bookings in a particular
quarter. Information regarding our new bookings is not
comparable to, nor should it be substituted for, an analysis of
our revenues over time. There are no third-party standards or
requirements governing the calculation of bookings. New contract
bookings involve estimates and judgments regarding new contracts
as well as renewals, extensions and additions to existing
contracts. Subsequent cancellations, extensions and other
matters may affect the amount of bookings previously reported.
New contract bookings are recorded using then existing currency
exchange rates and are not subsequently adjusted for currency
fluctuations.

The majority of our contracts are terminable by the client on
short notice or without notice. Accordingly, we do not believe
it is appropriate to characterize bookings attributable to these
contracts as backlog. Normally, if a client terminates a
project, the client remains obligated to pay for commitments we
have made to third parties in connection with the project,
services performed and reimbursable expenses incurred by us
through the date of termination.

27

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

For a description of our critical accounting policies and
estimates, see our Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended August 31, 2005.

Revenues by Segment/Operating Group 

Our five reportable operating segments are our operating groups,
which are Communications & High Tech, Financial
Services, Government, Products and Resources. Operating groups
are managed on the basis of revenues before reimbursements
because our management believes revenues before reimbursements
are a better indicator of operating group performance than
revenues. From time to time, our operating groups work together
to sell and implement certain contracts. The resulting revenues
and costs from these contracts may be apportioned among the
participating operating groups. Generally, operating expenses
for each operating group have similar characteristics and are
subject to the same factors, pressures and challenges. However,
the economic environment and its effects on the industries
served by our operating groups affect revenues and operating
expenses within our operating groups to differing degrees.
Decisions relating to staffing levels are not made uniformly
across our operating segments, due in part to the needs of our
operating groups to tailor their workforces to meet the specific
needs of their businesses. The shift in mix toward outsourcing
contracts is not uniform among our operating groups and,
consequently, neither is the impact on operating group results
caused by this shift. Local currency fluctuations also tend to
affect our operating groups differently, depending on the
geographic concentrations and locations of their businesses.

28

Revenues for each of our operating groups, geographic regions
and types of work were as follows:

n/m = not meaningful

(1)  
     
    EMEA includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa. 

Three Months Ended February 28, 2006 Compared to Three
Months Ended February 28, 2005 

Revenues   

Our Communications & High Tech operating group achieved
revenues before reimbursements of $1,027 million for the
three months ended February 28, 2006, compared with
$982 million for the three months ended February 28,
2005, an increase of 4% in U.S. dollars and 9% in local
currency terms. The increase was primarily driven by revenue
growth in our Electronics & High Tech and
Media & Entertainment industry groups and consulting
revenue growth within our Americas region.

Our Financial Services operating group recorded revenues before
reimbursements of $833 million for the three months ended
February 28, 2006, compared with $859 million for the
three months ended February 28, 2005, a decrease of 3% in
U.S. dollars and an increase of 3% in local currency terms.
The decrease in U.S. dollars was

29

primarily due to revenue declines in our EMEA region, offset by
revenue growth in our Americas and Asia Pacific regions,
particularly in our Insurance and Banking industry groups.

Our Government operating group achieved revenues before
reimbursements of $598 million for the three months ended
February 28, 2006, compared with $521 million for the
three months ended February 28, 2005, an increase of 15% in
U.S. dollars and 19% in local currency terms. The increase
was primarily due to strong outsourcing revenue growth in our
Americas and Asia Pacific regions and consulting revenue growth
in our EMEA region.

Our Products operating group achieved revenues before
reimbursements of $1,004 million for the three months ended
February 28, 2006, compared with $851 million for the
three months ended February 28, 2005, an increase of 18% in
U.S. dollars and 24% in local currency terms, with both
consulting and outsourcing contributing to the growth in
revenues. The increase was primarily due to strong growth in our
Americas region, driven by our Health & Life Sciences
and Retail industry groups.

Our Resources operating group achieved revenues before
reimbursements of $639 million for the three months ended
February 28, 2006, compared with $597 million for the
three months ended February 28, 2005, an increase of 7% in
U.S. dollars and 11% in local currency terms, with both
outsourcing and consulting contributing to the growth in
revenues. We experienced strong growth in our Chemicals, Energy
and Natural Resources industry groups, particularly in our
Americas and Asia Pacific regions, which more than offset a
decline in our Utilities industry group.

Our Americas region achieved revenues before reimbursements for
the three months ended February 28, 2006 of
$1,898 million, compared with $1,572 million for the
three months ended February 28, 2005, an increase of 21% in
U.S. dollars and 19% in local currency terms. Growth was
primarily due to our business in the United States, Brazil and
Canada.

Our EMEA region recorded revenues before reimbursements for the
three months ended February 28, 2006 of
$1,914 million, compared with $1,970 million for the
three months ended February 28, 2005, a decrease of 3% in
U.S. dollars and an increase of 7% in local currency terms.
The increase in local currency was primarily driven by growth in
our business in Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Italy, the
Netherlands and Spain. The decrease in U.S. dollars,
compared with the increase in local currency, is due to the
strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies,
resulting in less-favorable currency translation and lower
reported U.S. dollar revenues.

Our Asia Pacific region achieved revenues before reimbursements
for the three months ended February 28, 2006 of
$291 million, compared with $271 million for the three
months ended February 28, 2005, an increase of 7% in
U.S. dollars and 15% in local currency terms. The increase
in revenues was primarily driven by our business in Australia
and China, partially offset by a decline in our business in
Japan.

Operating Expenses   

Operating expenses for the three months ended February 28,
2006 were $4,354 million, an increase of $609 million,
or 16%, over the three months ended February 28, 2005.
Operating expenses before reimbursements as a percentage of
revenues before reimbursements increased to 97% for the three
months ended February 28, 2006 from 88% for the three
months ended February 28, 2005. Operating expenses for the
three months ended February 28, 2006 included share-based
compensation expense of $76 million, or 1.9%, of revenues
before reimbursements, compared with share-based compensation
expense of $20 million, or 0.5% of revenues before
reimbursements, for the three months ended February 28,
2005. Had we expensed employee stock options and employee share
purchase rights for the three months ended February 28,
2005, we estimate that operating expenses would have included
$71 million in total share-based compensation expense, or
1.9% of revenues before reimbursements.

Cost of Services   

Cost of services for the three months ended February 28,
2006 was $3,622 million, an increase of $581 million,
or 19%, over the three months ended February 28, 2005, and
increased as a percentage of revenues to 81% from 72% over this
period. Cost of services before reimbursable expenses for the
three months ended February 28, 2006 was
$3,234 million, an increase of $595 million, or 23%,
over the three months ended February 28, 2005, and
increased as a percentage of revenues before reimbursements to
78.8% from 69.2% over this period. Gross margins (revenues

30

before reimbursements less cost of services before
reimbursements) as a percentage of revenues before
reimbursements decreased to 21.2% from 30.8% during this period.

The increase in Cost of services and the decrease in gross
margins as a percentage of revenues before reimbursements were
due primarily to the $450 million loss provision associated
with the NHS Contracts recorded during the second quarter of
fiscal 2006, as well as higher share-based compensation expense
as a result of adoption of SFAS No. 123R. See
   The NHS Contracts. 

Sales and Marketing   

Sales and marketing expense for the three months ended
February 28, 2006 was $393 million, an increase of
$16 million, or 4%, from the three months ended
February 28, 2005, and remained flat as a percentage of
revenues before reimbursements at 10% for the three months ended
February 28, 2006 compared to the three months ended
February 28, 2005.

General and Administrative Costs   

General and administrative costs for the three months ended
February 28, 2006 were $345 million, a decrease of
$16 million, or 4%, from the three months ended
February 28, 2005, and decreased as a percentage of
revenues before reimbursements to 8% from 9% during this period.
The decrease is primarily due to lower spending in geographic
facilities and technology costs and favorable effects of foreign
currency exchange.

Reorganization Benefits   

We recorded net reorganization benefits of $7 million
during the three months ended February 28, 2006, which
included a $14 million reduction in reorganization
liabilities offset by $6 million of interest expense
associated with carrying these liabilities. At February 28,
2006, the remaining liability for reorganization costs was
$375 million, of which $249 million was classified as
current liabilities because expirations of statutes of
limitations could occur within 12 months. During the three
months ended February 28, 2005, we recorded net
reorganization benefits of $36 million, which included a
$42 million reduction in reorganization liabilities offset
by a $6 million interest expense associated with carrying
these liabilities. In both periods, the reduction in liabilities
was primarily due to final determinations of certain
reorganization liabilities established in connection with our
transition to a corporate structure in 2001. For additional
information, refer to Footnote 3 (Restructuring and
Reorganization (Benefits) Costs) to our Consolidated Financial
Statements under  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.  We anticipate that reorganization liabilities will
be substantially diminished by the end of fiscal 2008 because
the final statutes of limitations will have expired in a number
of tax jurisdictions by the end of that year. However, tax
audits or litigation may delay final settlements. Final
settlement will result in a payment on a final settlement and/or
recording a reorganization benefit or cost in our Consolidated
Income Statement.

Operating Income   

Operating income for the three months ended February 28,
2006 was $137 million, a decrease of $335 million, or
71%, from the three months ended February 28, 2005, and
decreased as a percentage of revenues before reimbursements to
3.3% during this period, from 12.4% for the prior-year period.
Had we expensed employee stock options and employee share
purchase rights for the three months ended February 28,
2005 and adjusted for Reorganization benefits, operating income
as a percentage of revenues before reimbursements for the three
months ended February 28, 2005 would have decreased by
2.4 percentage points. The decreases in operating income
and operating income as a percentage of revenues before
reimbursements were principally due to the $450 million
aggregate loss provision associated with the NHS Contracts
recorded by our Government and Products operating groups during
the second quarter of fiscal 2006, which had the effect, after
the impact on bonus compensation, of

31

reducing operating income in the second quarter of fiscal 2006
by $342 million. See    The NHS
Contracts.  Operating income (loss) for each of the
operating groups was as follows:

(1)  
     
    Adjustments represent the estimated amounts that would have been
    incurred had we expensed employee stock options and employee
    share purchase rights for the three months ended
    February 28, 2005. 

(2)  
     
    May not total due to rounding. 

(3)  
     
    Reorganization benefits recorded during the period were
    allocated to the reportable operating groups as follows: 

(1)  
     
    May not total due to rounding. 

The following commentary includes the effect on Operating income
(loss) had we expensed employee stock options and employee share
purchase rights for the three months ended February 28,
2005, and adjusting for reorganization benefits recorded during
the period:

Communications & High Tech operating income increased
    primarily due to improved gross margins in our Americas and EMEA
    regions and strong consulting revenue growth in our Americas
    region. 

Financial Services operating income decreased due to a decline
    in revenue and higher sales and marketing and general and
    administrative costs. 

Government recorded an operating loss principally due to a
    $225 million loss provision associated with the NHS
    Contracts, which was partially offset by strong gross margins in
    outsourcing and increased profitability on certain consulting
    contracts. See    The NHS Contracts.  

Products recorded an operating loss principally due to a
    $225 million loss provision associated with the NHS
    Contracts, which was partially offset by strong revenue growth,
    primarily in consulting and outsourcing, as well as improvements
    in gross margins and lower operating costs. See
       The NHS Contracts.  

Resources operating income decreased due to delivery
    inefficiencies on a small number of contracts, increases in
    payroll costs and a temporary decline in staff utilization,
    which were partially offset by strong revenue growth. 

32

Provision for Income Taxes   

The effective tax rates for the three months ended
February 28, 2006 and 2005 were 35.7% and 30.6%,
respectively. Our expected fiscal 2006 annual effective tax rate
declined to 37.0% in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 from
37.4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, primarily as a result
of changes to our forecast geographic mix of income and the tax
effect of final determinations of reorganization liabilities
during the quarter. The effective tax rate of 35.7% for the
three months ended February 28, 2006 is lower than the full
year forecast effective tax rate of 37.0% because it reflects an
adjustment to the Provision for Income Taxes for the first
quarter as a result of the decrease in the expected fiscal 2006
annual effective tax rate.

The projected fiscal 2006 annual effective rate is higher than
the fiscal 2005 annual effective tax rate primarily due to
nonrecurring benefits recorded in fiscal 2005 related to final
determinations of prior year tax liabilities and reduction in
reorganization liabilities, which reduced the fiscal 2005 annual
rate by 6.4 percentage points and 1.4 percentage
points, respectively. The projected fiscal 2006 effective tax
rate includes a benefit of 3.9 percentage points related to
updated estimates regarding the probable future benefit of
certain deferred tax assets.

Six Months Ended February 28, 2006 Compared to Six
Months Ended February 28, 2005 

n/m = not meaningful

(1)  
     
    EMEA includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa. 

33

Revenues  

Our Communications & High Tech operating group achieved
revenues before reimbursements of $2,074 million for the
six months ended February 28, 2006, compared with
$1,955 million for the six months ended February 28,
2005, an increase of 6% in U.S. dollars and 8% in local
currency terms. The increase was primarily due to revenue growth
in our Electronics & High Tech industry group across
all geographic regions, consulting revenue growth in our
Americas region and outsourcing revenue growth in our EMEA and
Asia Pacific regions.

Our Financial Services operating group achieved revenues before
reimbursements of $1,688 million for the six months ended
February 28, 2006, compared with $1,666 million for
the six months ended February 28, 2005, an increase of 1%
in U.S. dollars and 5% in local currency terms. This
increase was driven by revenue growth in our Americas and Asia
Pacific regions, particularly in our Insurance and Banking
industry groups, offset by lower revenue growth in our EMEA
region.

Our Government operating group achieved revenues before
reimbursements of $1,196 million for the six months ended
February 28, 2006, compared with $1,045 million for
the six months ended February 28, 2005, an increase of 14%
in U.S. dollars and 17% in local currency terms. The
increase was primarily due to strong outsourcing revenue growth
across all geographic regions.

Our Products operating group achieved revenues before
reimbursements of $2,021 million for the six months ended
February 28, 2006, compared with $1,714 million for
the six months ended February 28, 2005, an increase of 18%
in U.S. dollars and 21% in local currency terms, with both
consulting and outsourcing contributing to the growth in
revenues. The increase was primarily due to strong growth in our
Americas region, driven by our Health & Life Sciences
and Retail industry groups.

Our Resources operating group achieved revenues before
reimbursements of $1,289 million for the six months ended
February 28, 2006, compared with $1,161 million for
the six months ended February 28, 2005, an increase of 11%
in U.S. dollars and 13% in local currency terms, with both
consulting and outsourcing contributing to the growth in
revenues. We experienced strong growth in our Chemicals, Energy
and Natural Resources industry groups across all regions, which
more than offset a decline in our Utilities industry group.

Our Americas region achieved revenues before reimbursements for
the six months ended February 28, 2006 of
$3,753 million, compared with $3,126 million for the
six months ended February 28, 2005, an increase of 20% in
U.S. dollars and 19% in local currency terms. Growth was
primarily due to our business in the United States, Brazil and
Canada.

Our EMEA region achieved revenues before reimbursements for the
six months ended February 28, 2006 of $3,925 million,
compared with $3,880 million for the six months ended
February 28, 2005, an increase of 1% in U.S. dollars
and 7% in local currency terms. The increase was primarily due
to growth in our business in Italy, Germany and Belgium, offset
by a decline in our business in the United Kingdom.

Our Asia Pacific region achieved revenues before reimbursements
for the six months ended February 28, 2006 of
$594 million, compared with $538 million for the six
months ended February 28, 2005, an increase of 10% in
U.S. dollars and 14% in local currency terms. The increase
in revenues was primarily driven by our business in Australia
and China, partially offset by a decline in our business in
Japan.

Operating Expenses  

Operating expenses for the six months ended February 28,
2006 were $8,384 million, an increase of
$1,027 million, or 14%, over the six months ended
February 28, 2005. Operating expenses before reimbursements
as a percentage of revenues before reimbursements increased to
92% for the six months ended February 28, 2006 from 88% for
the six months ended February 28, 2005. Operating expenses
for the six months ended February 28, 2006 included
share-based compensation expense of $127 million, or 1.5%
of revenues before reimbursements, compared with share-based
compensation expense of $38 million, or 0.5% of revenues
before reimbursements, for the six months ended
February 28, 2005. Had we expensed employee stock options
and employee share purchase rights for the six months ended
February 28, 2005, we estimate that operating expenses
would have included $121 million in total share-based
compensation expense, or 1.6% of revenues before reimbursements.

34

Cost of Services   

Cost of services for the six months ended February 28, 2006
was $6,845 million, an increase of $947 million, or
16%, over the six months ended February 28, 2005, and
increased as a percentage of revenues to 76% from 71% over this
period. Cost of services before reimbursable expenses for the
six months ended February 28, 2006 was $6,083 million,
an increase of $929 million, or 18%, over the six months
ended February 28, 2005 and increased as a percentage of
revenues before reimbursements to 73.5% from 68.3% over this
period. Gross margins (revenues before reimbursements less cost
of services before reimbursements) as a percentage of revenues
before reimbursements decreased to 26.5% from 31.7% during this
period.

The increase in Cost of services and the decrease in gross
margins as a percentage of revenues before reimbursements were
due primarily to the $450 million loss provision associated
with the NHS Contracts recorded during the second quarter of
fiscal 2006, as well as higher share-based compensation expense
as a result of adoption of SFAS No. 123R. See
   The NHS Contracts. 

Sales and Marketing   

Sales and marketing expense for the six months ended
February 28, 2006 was $802 million, an increase of
$66 million, or 9%, over the six months ended
February 28, 2005, and remained flat as a percentage of
revenues before reimbursements at 10% for the six months ended
February 28, 2006, compared to the six months ended
February 28, 2005.

General and Administrative Costs   

General and administrative costs for the six months ended
February 28, 2006 were $739 million, a decrease of
$13 million, or 2%, over the six months ended
February 28, 2005, and decreased as a percentage of
revenues before reimbursements to 9% from 10% during this
period. The decrease is primarily due to a decrease in
geographic facilities and technology costs and favorable effects
of foreign currency exchange.

Reorganization Benefits   

We recorded net reorganization benefits of $2 million
during the six months ended February 28, 2006, which
included a $15 million reduction in reorganization
liabilities offset by $13 million of interest expense
associated with carrying these liabilities. At February 28,
2006, the remaining liability for reorganization costs was
$375 million, of which $249 million was classified as
current liabilities because expirations of statutes of
limitations could occur within 12 months. During the six
months ended February 28, 2005, we recorded net
reorganization benefits of $29 million, which included a
$42 million reduction in reorganization liabilities offset
by a $13 million interest expense associated with carrying
these liabilities. In both periods, the reduction in liabilities
was primarily due to final determinations of certain
reorganization liabilities established in connection with our
transition to a corporate structure in 2001. For additional
information, refer to Footnote 3 (Restructuring and
Reorganization (Benefits) Costs) to our Consolidated Financial
Statements under  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.  We anticipate that reorganization liabilities will
be substantially diminished by the end of fiscal 2008 because
the final statutes of limitations will have expired in a number
of tax jurisdictions by the end of that year. However, tax
audits or litigation may delay final settlements. Final
settlement will result in a payment on a final settlement and/or
recording a reorganization benefit or cost in our Consolidated
Income Statement.

35

Operating Income   

Operating income for the six months ended February 28, 2006
was $650 million, a decrease of $280 million, or 30%,
from the six months ended February 28, 2005, and declined
as a percentage of revenues before reimbursements to 7.9% during
this period, compared with 12.3% during the prior-year period.
Had we expensed employee stock options and employee share
purchase rights for the six months ended February 28, 2005
and adjusted for Reorganization benefits, operating income as a
percentage of revenues before reimbursements for the six months
ended February 28, 2005 would have decreased by
1.7 percentage points. The decreases in operating income
and operating income as a percentage of revenues before
reimbursements were principally due to the $450 million
aggregate loss provision associated with the NHS Contracts
recorded by our Government and Products operating groups during
the second quarter of fiscal 2006, which had the effect, after
the impact on bonus compensation, of reducing operating income
in the first half of fiscal 2006 by $342 million. See
   The NHS Contracts.  Operating income
(loss) for each of the operating groups was as follows:

(1)  
     
    Adjustments represent the estimated amounts that would have been
    incurred had we expensed employee stock options and employee
    share purchase rights for the six months ended February 28,
    2005. 

(2)  
     
    May not total due to rounding. 

(3)  
     
    Reorganization benefits recorded during the period were
    allocated to the reportable operating groups as follows: 

(1)  
     
    May not total due to rounding. 

The following commentary includes the effect on Operating income
(loss) had we expensed employee stock options and employee share
purchase rights for the six months ended February 28, 2005,
and adjusting for reorganization benefits recorded during the
period:

Communications & High Tech operating income increased
    primarily due to improved gross margins and revenue growth in
    our Americas and EMEA regions. 

Financial Services operating income decreased due to delivery
    inefficiencies on a small number of contracts, a temporary
    decline in staff utilization and higher sales and marketing and
    general and administrative costs. 

Government recorded an operating loss principally due to a
    $225 million loss provision associated with the NHS
    Contracts recorded during the second quarter of fiscal 2006,
    which was partially offset by strong gross 

36

margins in outsourcing and increased profitability on certain
    consulting contracts. See    The NHS
    Contracts.  

Products recorded an operating loss principally due to a
    $225 million loss provision associated with the NHS
    Contracts recorded during the second quarter of fiscal 2006,
    which was partially offset by strong revenue growth, as well as
    improvement in gross margins and lower operating costs. See
       The NHS Contracts.  

Resources operating income decreased due to delivery
    inefficiencies on a small number of contracts, increases in
    payroll costs and a temporary decline in staff utilization,
    which were partially offset by strong revenue growth. 

Interest Income   

Interest income for the six months ended February 28, 2006
was $55 million, an increase of $7 million, or 14%,
over the six months ended February 28, 2005. The increase
resulted primarily from an increase in interest rates and
average client financing balances, which was offset by a
decrease in average cash and investment balances for the six
months ended February 28, 2006, compared with the interest
rates and average balances for the six months ended
February 28, 2005.

Other Expense  

Other expense for the six months ended February 28, 2006
was $13 million, compared with $5 million for the six
months ended February 28, 2005. The increase was primarily
due to an increase in net foreign currency exchange losses
during the six months ended February 28, 2006, compared
with the six months ended February 28, 2005.

Provision for Income Taxes  

The effective tax rates for the six months ended
February 28, 2006 and 2005 were 37.0% and 32.3%,
respectively. Our expected fiscal 2006 annual effective tax rate
declined to 37.0% in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 from
37.4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, primarily as a result
of changes to our forecast geographic mix of income and the tax
effect of final determinations of reorganization liabilities
during the quarter.

The projected fiscal 2006 annual effective rate is higher than
the fiscal 2005 annual effective tax rate primarily due to
nonrecurring benefits recorded in fiscal 2005 related to final
determinations of prior year tax liabilities and reduction in
reorganization liabilities, which reduced the fiscal 2005 annual
rate by 6.4 percentage points and 1.4 percentage
points, respectively. The projected fiscal 2006 effective tax
rate includes a benefit of 3.9 percentage points related to
updated estimates regarding the probable future benefit of
certain deferred tax assets.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations,
debt capacity available under various credit facilities and
available cash reserves. We may also be able to raise additional
funds through public or private debt or equity financings in
order to:

take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion; 

acquire complementary businesses or technologies; 

develop new services and solutions; 

respond to competitive pressures; or 

facilitate purchases, redemptions and exchanges of Accenture
    shares. 

As of February 28, 2006, cash and cash equivalents of
$2,034 million combined with $491 million of liquid
fixed-income securities that are classified as investments on
our Consolidated Balance Sheet totaled $2,525 million,
compared with $3,185 million at August 31, 2005, a
decrease of $660 million.

37

Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities,
as reflected in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statements, are
summarized in the following table:

Operating Activities.  The $326 million increase in
cash provided was primarily due to increases in revenues and the
related collections of billings during the first six months of
fiscal 2006 compared to the first six months of fiscal 2005,
partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable.

Investing Activities.  The $246 million increase in
cash provided was primarily due to net proceeds from marketable
securities in the first six months of fiscal 2006 compared with
net purchases of marketable securities in the first six months
of fiscal 2005, partially offset by an increase in purchases of
property and equipment and businesses and investments.

Financing Activities.  The $1,392 million increase in
cash used was primarily driven by a significant increase in
purchases of common shares and the payment of $96 million
in cash dividends, partially offset by a $130 million
increase in cash received for Accenture Ltd Class A common
shares issued under Accenture s employee share programs.
For additional information, see Footnote 7 (Material
Transactions Affecting Shareholders  Equity) to our
Consolidated Financial Statements above under Item 1,
 Financial Statements. 

Borrowing Facilities  

As of February 28, 2006, we had the following borrowing
facilities, including the issuance of letters of credit, for
general working capital purposes:

Facility    

Amount    

(in millions)    

Syndicated loan facility

$ 
     1,500 

Separate bilateral, uncommitted, unsecured multicurrency
    revolving credit facilities

250 

Local guaranteed and non-guaranteed lines of credit

130 

Total

$ 
     1,880 

As of February 28, 2006, we had $5 million and
$172 million of short-term borrowings and letters of credit
outstanding, respectively, and we continue to be in compliance
with the terms of the above facilities.

In addition to the short-term borrowings noted above, we had
total outstanding debt of $47 million as of
February 28, 2006, which was primarily incurred in
connection with our ownership of Accenture HR Services.

Client Financing   

In limited circumstances, we agree to extend financing to
clients on technology integration consulting contracts. The
terms vary by contract, but generally we contractually link
payment for services to the achievement of specified performance
milestones. We finance these client obligations primarily with
existing working capital and bank financing

38

in the country of origin. Imputed interest is recorded at market
rates in Interest income in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Information pertaining to client financing was as follows:

(1)  
     
    The loss provision established during the second quarter of
    fiscal 2006 was associated with the NHS Contracts. See
       The NHS Contracts.  

Share Purchases and Redemptions  

Set forth below is a summary of significant share purchase and
redemption activity and developments during the first six months
of fiscal 2006. For a complete description of all share purchase
and redemption activity for the second quarter of fiscal 2006,
see Part II, Item 2,  Unregistered Sales of
Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds; Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities. 

Senior Executive Trading Policy and Practices   

In July 2005, we implemented a Senior Executive Trading Policy
applicable to our senior executives which provides, among other
things, that all shares obtained in connection with our
transition to a corporate structure in July 2001 ( Founder
Shares ) still held by our senior executives and available
for transfer will also be subject to quarterly trading
guidelines. Many of these Founder Shares still held by current
and former senior executives also remain subject to significant
transfer restrictions contained in the Company s Articles
of Association (the  Transfer Restrictions ).

Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, our current and
former senior executives who held Founder Shares were able to
individually control the sale or redemption of their shares.
Holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and
Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. ( ACHI ) exchangeable
shares wishing to sell or redeem these shares must sell or
redeem them to Accenture. During the three and six months ended
February 28, 2006, we purchased or redeemed an aggregate of
11,631,335 and 17,017,398 Accenture SCA Class I common
shares, respectively, and 171,319 and 198,690 ACHI exchangeable
shares, respectively, in individual transactions initiated by
current and former senior executives, for total cash outlays of
$366 million and $508 million, respectively.

To the best of our knowledge, as of February 28, 2006, our
current and former senior executives directly or indirectly held
approximately 370 million Founder Shares (or 44% of the
combined issued and outstanding Accenture Ltd Class A
common shares, Accenture SCA Class I common shares and ACHI
exchangeable shares). Of these Founder Shares, approximately
326 million Founder Shares remain subject to the Transfer
Restrictions and approximately 204 million Founder Shares
are subject to the Senior Executive Trading Policy.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We have various agreements by which we may be obligated to
indemnify other parties with respect to certain matters.
Generally, these indemnification provisions are included in
contracts arising in the normal course of business under which
we customarily agree to hold the indemnified party harmless
against losses arising from a breach of representations related
to such matters as title to assets sold and licensed or certain
intellectual property rights. Payments by us under such
indemnification clauses are generally conditioned on the other
party making a claim. Such claims are generally subject to
challenge by us and dispute resolution procedures specified in
the particular contract. Furthermore, our obligations under
these arrangements may be limited in terms of time and/or amount
and, in some instances, we may have recourse against third
parties for certain payments made by us. It is not possible to
predict

39

the maximum potential amount of future payments under these
indemnification agreements due to the conditional nature of our
obligations and the unique facts of each particular agreement.
Historically, we have not made any payments under these
agreements that have been material individually or in the
aggregate. As of February 28, 2006, we were not aware of
any obligations arising under indemnification contracts that
would require material payments.

From time to time, we enter into contracts with clients whereby
we have joint and several liability with other participants and
third parties providing related services and products to
clients. Under these arrangements, we and other parties may
assume some responsibility to the client for the performance of
others under the terms and conditions of the contract with or
for the benefit of the client. To date, we have not been
required to make any payments under any of the contracts
described in this paragraph. For additional information, see
Footnote 8 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our
Consolidated Financial Statements above under Item 1,
 Financial Statements. 

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
ABOUT MARKET RISK 

During the six months ended February 28, 2006, there were
no material changes in our market risk exposure. For a
discussion of our market risk associated with foreign currency
risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk as of
August 31, 2005, see  Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk  in Part II,
Item 7A, of Accenture Ltd s Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended August 31, 2005.

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Based on their evaluation for the period covered by this
Quarterly Report on
Form  10-Q,  the
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of
Accenture Ltd, the general partner of Accenture SCA, have
concluded that, as of the end of such period, our disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in
Rule  13a-14(c)  and
 15d-14(c)  under the
Exchange Act) are effective to ensure that information required
to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and
Exchange Commission s rules and forms.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

There has been no change in our internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the second quarter of fiscal 2006
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION 

ITEM 1.   
     
     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

We are involved in a number of judicial and arbitration
proceedings concerning matters arising in the ordinary course of
our business. We do not expect that any of these matters,
individually or in the aggregate, will have a material impact on
our results of operations or financial condition.

As previously reported in July 2003, we became aware of an
incident of possible noncompliance with the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act and/or with our internal controls in connection
with certain of our operations in the Middle East. In 2003, we
voluntarily reported the incident to the appropriate authorities
in the United States promptly after its discovery. Shortly
thereafter, the SEC advised us it would be undertaking an
informal investigation of this incident, and the
U.S. Department of Justice indicated it would also conduct
a review. Since that time, there have been no further
developments. We do not believe that this incident will have any
material impact on our results of operations or financial
condition.

We currently maintain the types and amounts of insurance
customary in the industries and countries in which we operate,
including coverage for professional liability, general liability
and management liability. We consider our insurance coverage to
be adequate both as to the risks and amounts for the businesses
we conduct.

40

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND
USE OF PROCEEDS; ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

Purchases and redemptions of Accenture SCA Class I
common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable
shares 

The following table provides additional information relating to
purchases and redemptions by the Company of Accenture SCA
Class I common shares and ACHI exchangeable shares during
the second quarter of fiscal 2006.

(1)  
     
    To date, the Board of Directors of Accenture has authorized an
    aggregate of $3.2 billion for purchases and redemptions of
    shares from our current and former senior executives and their
    permitted transferees under our Senior Executive Trading Policy
    and our prior Share Management Plan. As of February 28,
    2006, an aggregate of $252 million remained available for
    these purchases and redemptions and on March 24, 2006, an
    additional $1.0 billion was authorized for use in these
    share purchase programs. 

(2)  
     
    During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company redeemed
    and purchased, in accordance with its Articles of Association, a
    total of 11,631,335 Accenture SCA Class I common shares and
    171,319 ACHI exchangeable shares from current and former senior
    executives and their permitted transferees. 

(3)  
     
    Includes 42,239 ACHI exchangeable shares purchased from a former
    senior executive in a discounted share transaction. 

Purchases and redemptions of Accenture SCA Class II and
Class III common shares 

Transactions involving Accenture SCA Class II and
Class III common shares consist exclusively of
inter-company transactions undertaken to facilitate other
corporate purposes.

On December 19, 2005, the Company, through its subsidiary
Accenture International Sarl, finalized the transfer of an
aggregate of 657,324 Accenture SCA Class III common shares
to Accenture in connection with transactions related to the
issuance by Accenture of its Accenture Ltd Class A common
shares delivered pursuant to outstanding options awards and
grants of restricted share units under Accenture s equity
compensation plans. The Accenture SCA Class III common
shares were transferred in reliance on the exemption from
registration contained in Section 4(2) of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, on the basis that the transaction did
not involve any public offering. Accenture SCA Class III
common shares are convertible into Accenture SCA Class II
common shares by a resolution of an extraordinary meeting of the
Company s shareholders passed in the manner provided by the
Company s Articles of Association. The conversion ratio
shall be 1 Accenture SCA Class III common share for 10
Accenture SCA Class II common shares.

41

Purchases and redemptions of Accenture Ltd Class A and
Class X common shares 

The following table provides information relating to purchases
by Accenture of Accenture Ltd Class A common shares and
redemptions of Accenture Ltd Class X common shares for the
second quarter of fiscal 2006. The Company s management
believes that the following table and footnotes provide useful
information because the market value of Accenture SCA
Class I common shares is based on the share price of
Accenture Ltd Class A common shares, and purchases of these
shares may affect the share price of Accenture Ltd Class A
common shares.

(1)  
     
    Since April 2002, the Board of Directors of Accenture has
    authorized and periodically confirmed a publicly announced
    open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture Ltd
    Class A common shares. During the second quarter of fiscal
    2006, we did not purchase any Accenture Ltd Class A common
    shares under this program. The Board of Directors of Accenture
    has authorized an aggregate of $1.6 billion for use in
    these open-market share purchases. As of February 28, 2006,
    an aggregate of $581 million remained available for these
    open-market share purchases and on March 24, 2006, an
    additional $500 million was authorized for use in these
    open-market share purchases. The open-market purchase program
    does not have an expiration date. 

(2)  
     
    In July 2002, the Company publicly announced our RSU Sell-Back
    Program, whereby the Company offers to purchase Accenture Ltd
    Class A common shares awarded to employees pursuant to
    restricted share units issued in connection with
    Accenture s initial public offering. During the second
    quarter of fiscal 2006, 118,894 Accenture Ltd Class A
    common shares were purchased under this program. The RSU
    Sell-Back Program was terminated, effective March 1, 2006.
    The approximately $119 million of remaining funds
    authorized for purchases under this program have been made
    available for use in the Company s other share purchase
    programs. 

(3)  
     
    During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company purchased
    474,238 Accenture Ltd Class A common shares for an
    aggregate purchase price of $10 million. These transactions
    consisted of purchases of Accenture shares received in
    connection with Accenture s transition to a corporate
    structure held by certain former senior executives. 

(4)  
     
    During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, Accenture purchased
    102,409 Accenture Ltd Class A common shares in transactions
    unrelated to publicly announced share plans or programs. These
    transactions consisted of acquisitions of Accenture Ltd
    Class A common shares via share withholding for payroll tax
    obligations due from employees and former employees in
    connection with the delivery of Accenture Ltd Class A
    common shares under the Company s various employee equity
    share plans. 

(5)  
     
    During the second quarter of fiscal 2006, Accenture redeemed
    14,177,762 Accenture Ltd Class X common shares pursuant to
    its bye-laws. Accenture Ltd Class X common shares are
    redeemable at their par value of $0.0000225 per share. 

42

ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES 

None.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
HOLDERS 

None.

ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION 

(a) None.

(b) None.

ITEM 6. EXHIBITS 

Exhibit Index:

43

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 31, 2006

ACCENTURE SCA 
    represented by its general partner, Accenture Ltd, itself
    represented by its duly authorized signatory 

By: /s/ Michael G. McGrath 

Name: Michael G. McGrath 

Title:   Chief Financial Officer of Accenture
    Ltd, general partner of Accenture SCA 

44

<EX-10.1>
 2
 c03884exv10w1.htm
 DESCRIPTION OF ACCENTURE ANNUAL BONUS PLAN

exv10w1 

Exhibit 10.1 

Accenture Annual Bonus Plan 
Summary of Terms 

1.  Objective : The objective of the Accenture Annual Bonus Plan (the  Plan ) is to
provide the Participants (as defined below) of Accenture Ltd (the  Company ) and its eligible
affiliates with performance incentive awards (each an  award ) based upon the Company s annual
performance and to promote further alignment of the interests of the Participants with those of the
Company and its shareholders.

2.  Term : The plan shall be in effect beginning with the 2006 fiscal year and remain in
effect for each following fiscal year, unless otherwise cancelled or replaced by the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Compensation Committee ).

3.  Eligibility : Employees of the Company and its eligible affiliates at the Manager,
Senior Manager and equivalent levels, Level 1 through 4 Senior Executives and certain other
consulting service providers deemed eligible at the Company s sole discretion, are eligible to
participate in the Plan (the  Participants ). To receive an award, a Participant must be employed
by or otherwise providing services to the Company (or an eligible affiliate) as of the last day of
the applicable fiscal year during the term of the Plan. The Compensation Committee (or its
designee) may, in its sole discretion, provide partial awards to Participants that commence
providing services subsequent to the first day of the applicable fiscal year.

4.  Target Levels for Award/Calculations : The Compensation Committee shall approve
annual earnings targets prior to the end of the first quarter of the applicable fiscal year during
the term of the Plan based on the Company s operating plan. The Compensation Committee shall also
approve a range of potential award amounts for threshold, target and above-target performance.
Based upon management s quarterly review, the Company shall book an accrual based upon the
achievement of performance target levels. The Compensation Committee may adjust up or down the
earnings target and ranges for potential awards under the Plan or, alternatively, may adjust the
calculation of actual earnings for purposes of the Plan, in each case to reflect items outside of
the Participants  control as the Compensation Committee deems necessary, advisable or appropriate
to adequately reward and incentivize the Participants. Such items may include, without limitation,
incurrence of non-operating income items, release of reorganization liabilities, changes in the
effective tax rate or certain changes in share count. The final determination of the earnings
target, potential award ranges, the certification of earnings target attainment for the purposes of
the Plan and the annual accrual shall be approved by the Compensation Committee prior to the annual
earnings release. The earnings achieved by the Company for the purposes of the Plan may differ
from earnings amounts reflected in the Company s financial statements.

5.  Performance Goals : Each Participant shall be assigned a target award level, stated
as a percentage of that Participant s designated base earnings. Each Participant s ability to earn his or her
target award is dependent on the Company s attainment of annual earnings targets. A Participant
may earn more or less than his or her target award based upon his or her individual annual
performance ratings.

6.  Award Payments : All award payments under the Plan will be paid out in cash,
annually, prior to December 31 of the calendar year in which the Plan year ends.

7.  Termination : In the event that any Participant shall cease to provide services to
the Company or its eligible affiliate prior to the end of the applicable fiscal year, subject to
legal requirements, that Participant will not be entitled to an award for that fiscal year. The
Plan shall not give any person any right to be retained in the service of the Company or any of its
affiliates.

8.  Amendments : The Compensation Committee may, at any time and from time to time,
make any and all amendments to the Plan as it deems necessary, advisable or appropriate, and may
terminate the Plan at any time.

9.  Administration : Except as determined by the Board of Directors, the Plan will be
administered by the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee may determine eligibility,
grant awards, and performance criteria in connection with the Plan. The Compensation Committee has
full authority, in its discretion, to take any action with respect to the Plan including, without
limitation, (i) to determine all matters relating to awards, including eligibility criteria,
performance criteria, the achievement of performance criteria, and terms, conditions, restrictions
and limitations of any
award, and (ii) to construe and interpret the Plan and any instruments evidencing awards
granted under the Plan, the establishment and interpretation of rules and regulations for
administering the Plan and all other determinations deemed (in the Compensation Committee s discretion)
necessary, advisable or appropriate for administering the Plan. The Compensation Committee may
delegate authority to implement the Plan and to make certain modifications with respect thereto for
purposes of such implementation on a global, per country or per participant basis, as the
Compensation Committee may, in its discretion, deem necessary, advisable or appropriate.

</EX-10.1>

<EX-31.1>
 3
 c03884exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION 

I, William D. Green, Chief Executive Officer of Accenture Ltd,
the general partner of Accenture SCA (the
 Registrant ), certify that:

1.  
     
    I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on
    Form  10-Q  of the
    Registrant for the period ended February 28, 2006, as filed
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof; 

2.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, this Quarterly Report does not contain
    any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
    material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
    the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this Quarterly
    Report; 

3.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
    financial information included in this Quarterly Report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this Quarterly Report; 

4.  
     
    The Registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
    Rules  13a-15(e) 
    and  15d-15(e))  and
    internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
    Rules  13a-15(f) 
    and  15d-15(f))  for the
    Registrant and have: 

a)  
     
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
    Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this Quarterly Report is being prepared; 

b)  
     
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
    caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)  
     
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure
    controls and procedures and presented in this Quarterly Report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this Quarterly Report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  
     
    Disclosed in this Quarterly Report any change in the
    Registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the Registrant s second fiscal quarter that
    has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
    affect, the Registrant s internal control over financial
    reporting; and 

5.  
     
    The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of Registrant s board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a)  
     
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
    design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
    which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

b)  
     
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Dated: March 31, 2006

/s/ William D. Green 

William D. Green 

Chief Executive Officer of Accenture Ltd, 

General Partner of Accenture SCA 

(principal executive officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 4
 c03884exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION 

I, Michael G. McGrath, Chief Financial Officer of Accenture Ltd,
the general partner of Accenture SCA (the
 Registrant ), certify that:

1.  
     
    I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on
    Form  10-Q  of the
    Registrant for the period ended February 28, 2006 as filed
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof; 

2.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, this Quarterly Report does not contain
    any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
    material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
    the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this Quarterly
    Report; 

3.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
    financial information included in this Quarterly Report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this Quarterly Report; 

4.  
     
    The Registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
    Rules  13a-15(e) 
    and  15d-15(e))  and
    internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
    Exchange Act
    Rules  13a-15(f) 
    and  15d-15(f))  for the
    Registrant and have: 

a)  
     
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
    Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this Quarterly Report is being prepared; 

b)  
     
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
    caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)  
     
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure
    controls and procedures and presented in this Quarterly Report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this Quarterly Report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  
     
    Disclosed in this Quarterly Report any change in the
    Registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the Registrant s second fiscal quarter that
    has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
    affect, the Registrant s internal control over financial
    reporting; and 

5.  
     
    The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of Registrant s board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a)  
     
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
    design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
    which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

b)  
     
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Dated: March 31, 2006

/s/ Michael G. McGrath 

Michael G. McGrath 

Chief Financial Officer of Accenture Ltd, 

General Partner of Accenture SCA 

(principal financial officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 5
 c03884exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 

As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Accenture SCA (the
 Company ) on
Form  10-Q  for the
period ended February 28, 2006 as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
 Report ), I, William D. Green, Chief Executive
Officer of Accenture Ltd, the general partner of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
that:

(1)  
     
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and 

(2)  
     
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
    material respects, the financial condition and results of
    operations of the Company. 

Dated: March 31, 2006 

/s/ William D. Green 
     William D. Green 
    Chief Executive Officer of Accenture Ltd, 
    General Partner of Accenture SCA 
    (principal executive officer) 

A signed original of this written statement required by
Section 906, or other document authenticating,
acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
in typed form within the electronic version of this written
statement required by Section 906, has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 6
 c03884exv32w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2 

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 

As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Accenture SCA (the
 Company ) on
Form  10-Q  for the
period ended February 28, 2006 as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
 Report ), I, Michael G. McGrath, Chief Financial
Officer of Accenture Ltd, the general partner of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
that:

(1)  
     
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and 

(2)  
     
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
    material respects, the financial condition and results of
    operations of the Company. 

Dated: March 31, 2006 

/s/ Michael G. McGrath 
     Michael G. McGrath 
    Chief Financial Officer of Accenture Ltd, 
    General Partner of Accenture SCA 
    (principal financial officer) 

A signed original of this written statement required by
Section 906, or other document authenticating,
acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
in typed form within the electronic version of this written
statement required by Section 906, has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.2>

