<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060324_10-Q_edgar_data_230211_0001104659-06-019135_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>892272</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>45479</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>604605</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>22</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-019135.hdr.sgml : 20060324
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060324153929
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-019135
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060228
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060324
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060324

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000230211
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	AIR COURIER SERVICES [4513]
		IRS NUMBER:				710427007
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0531

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07806
		FILM NUMBER:		06709217

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3610 HACKS CROSS ROAD
		CITY:			MEMPHIS
		STATE:			TN
		ZIP:			38125
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9013693600

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3610 HACKS CROSS ROAD
		CITY:			MEMPHIS
		STATE:			TN
		ZIP:			38125

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 R4/g0POIVlhXcZpdMULedKqAcIamnmcd89Es7rZdnJVr5dKfGWI2vPGgf8N3Blpp
 xTnfa5lJy0b7w+GW1xO91g==

 0001104659-06-019135.txt : 20060324

10-Q
 1
 a06-7278_110q.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-Q   

(Mark One)   

Commission
File Number:  1-7806   

FEDERAL EXPRESS CORPORATION   

  (Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)  

(901)
369-3600   

  (Registrant s telephone
number, including area code)  

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.  

  Yes        No  o  

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  

Large
  accelerated filer    o  

Accelerated
  filer    o  

Non-accelerated
  filer       

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).  

  Yes    o   No     

The number of shares of
common stock outstanding as of March 17, 2006 was 1,000. The Registrant is a
wholly owned subsidiary of FedEx Corporation, and there is no market for the Registrant s
common stock.  

The Registrant meets the
conditions set forth in General Instructions H(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-Q and
is therefore filing this form with the reduced disclosure format permitted by
General Instruction H(2).   

FEDERAL
EXPRESS CORPORATION   

INDEX   

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

2  

FEDERAL EXPRESS CORPORATION   

     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   

   (IN MILLIONS)   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed
consolidated financial statements.  

3  

FEDERAL EXPRESS CORPORATION   

     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   

   (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)   

The accompanying
notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial
statements.  

4  

FEDERAL EXPRESS CORPORATION   

     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS
OF INCOME   

   (UNAUDITED)   

   (IN MILLIONS)   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed
consolidated financial statements.  

5  

FEDERAL EXPRESS CORPORATION   

     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

   (UNAUDITED)   

   (IN MILLIONS)   

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  

6  

FEDERAL
EXPRESS CORPORATION   

     NOTES TO
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

   (UNAUDITED)   

(1)  General   

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES.    These interim financial statements of
Federal Express Corporation ( FedEx Express ) have been prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for interim
financial information, the instructions to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Rule
10-01 of Regulation S-X and should be read in conjunction with our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2005. Accordingly, significant
accounting policies and other disclosures normally provided have been omitted
since such items are disclosed therein.  

In the opinion of management, the
accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all
adjustments (including normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present
fairly our financial position as of February 28, 2006 and the results of our
operations for the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28, 2006 and
2005 and our cash flows for the nine-month periods ended February 28, 2006 and
2005. Operating results for the three- and nine-month periods ended February
28, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for
the year ending May 31, 2006.  

We are a wholly owned
subsidiary of FedEx Corporation ( FedEx ) engaged in a single line of business
and operate in one business segment   the worldwide express transportation and
distribution of goods and documents.  

Except as otherwise specified, references
to years indicate our fiscal year ending May 31, 2006 or ended May 31 of the
year referenced and comparisons are to the corresponding period of the prior
year.  

GUARANTEES.    We provide guarantees on
FedEx debt instruments jointly and severally with other affiliated companies in
the FedEx consolidated group. In addition, we guarantee, jointly and severally
with other affiliated companies in the FedEx consolidated group, FedEx s $1 billion
revolving credit facility, which backs its commercial paper program. 

In conjunction with
certain transactions, primarily the lease, sale or purchase of operating assets
or services in the ordinary course of business, we sometimes provide routine
indemnifications (e.g., environmental, fuel, tax and software infringement),
the terms of which range in duration and are often not limited. The fair market
value of these indemnifications is not believed to be significant.  

EMPLOYEES
UNDER COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ARRANGEMENTS.   Our pilots, who represent a small number of
our total employees, are employed under a collective bargaining agreement that
became amendable on May 31, 2004.   In
accordance with applicable labor law, we will continue to operate under our
current agreement while we negotiate with our pilots. Contract negotiations
with the pilots  union began in March 2004. These negotiations are ongoing and are
being mediated through the National Mediation Board. We cannot estimate the
financial impact, if any, the results of these negotiations may have on our
future results of operations. 

LEASE ADJUSTMENT   . During the first quarter of 2006, a one-time,
non-cash charge of $75 million (before variable compensation effects and income
tax) was recorded, which represented the impact on prior years, to adjust the
accounting for certain facility leases. The charge related primarily to rent
escalations in on-airport facility leases. Because the amounts involved were
not material to our financial statements in any individual  

7  

prior
period and the cumulative amount is not expected to be material to 2006
results, we recorded the cumulative adjustment in the first quarter, which increased
operating expenses by $75 million.  

BUSINESS ACQUISITION.    On
January 24, 2006, we entered into an agreement with Tianjin Datian W. Group
Co., Ltd. ( DTW Group ) to acquire DTW Group s 50% share of the FedEx-DTW
International Priority express joint venture ( FedEx-DTW ) and DTW Group s
domestic express network in China for approximately $400 million in cash. This
acquisition will convert our joint venture with DTW Group, formed in 1999 and
currently accounted for under the equity method, into a wholly owned subsidiary
and increase our presence in China in the international and domestic express
businesses. The acquisition is expected to be completed in the first half of
2007.  

STOCK COMPENSATION   . We participate in the stock-based
compensation plans of FedEx. Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. ( APB )
25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and its related interpretations
are applied by FedEx to measure expense for stock-based compensation plans. As
a result, no compensation expense is recorded for stock options when the
exercise price is equal to or greater than the market price of our common stock
at the date of grant. For awards by FedEx of restricted stock to our employees,
we recognize the fair value of the awards ratably over their explicit service
period.  

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS   .   In December
2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. ( SFAS ) 123R,  Share-Based Payment.   SFAS 123R is a revision of SFAS 123 and
supersedes APB 25. The new standard requires companies to record compensation
expense for stock-based awards using a fair value method and is effective for
annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005 (effective in the first quarter of
2007 for FedEx Express). We will record compensation expense over the requisite
service period, which is typically the vesting period of the award. We plan to
adopt this standard using the modified prospective method.  

The impact of the adoption of SFAS 123R
cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend on levels of
share-based payments granted by FedEx to our employees in the future, the
assumptions and the fair value model used to value those future grants, and the
market value of FedEx s common stock. However, FedEx anticipates that the
impact of SFAS 123R on a consolidated basis will approximate the pro forma
results under SFAS 123. For more information about the pro forma results under
SFAS 123, refer to the financial statements of FedEx included in its Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended February 28, 2006.  

In March 2005, the FASB issued Financial
Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. ( FIN ) 47,  Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an Interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 143 . FIN 47 clarifies that liabilities associated with asset retirement
obligations for which the timing or settlement method is conditional upon
future events should be recorded at fair value as soon as fair value is
reasonably estimable. FIN 47 also provides guidance on the information required
to reasonably estimate the fair value of the liability. We will adopt FIN 47 in
the fourth quarter of 2006 and the adoption will not have a material impact on
our financial position or results of operations for 2006.  

8  

(2)  Comprehensive Income    

The following table provides a
reconciliation of net income reported in our financial statements to
comprehensive income (in millions):  

(3)  Employee Benefit Plans   

A majority of our employees are
covered by the FedEx Corporation Employees  Pension Plan, a defined benefit
pension plan sponsored by FedEx. The plan covers certain U.S. employees age 21
and over with at least one year of service and provides benefits based on
average earnings and years of service. For more information about this plan
refer to the financial statements of FedEx included in its Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended February 28, 2006.  

9  

We incurred a net periodic benefit
cost of $75 million and $224 million for the third quarter and nine months
ended February 28, 2006, respectively, for our participation in the FedEx
Corporation Employees  Pension Plan. We incurred a net periodic benefit cost of
$64 million and $192 million for the third quarter and nine months ended February
28, 2005, respectively, for our participation in the FedEx Corporation
Employees  Pension Plan. These amounts were paid to FedEx. We also sponsor or
participate in nonqualified benefit plans covering certain of our U.S. employee
groups and other pension plans covering certain of our international employees.
For the plans sponsored by us, the following table summarizes the net periodic
benefit cost of the pension and postretirement healthcare (in millions):  

No material contributions
were made during the first nine months of 2006 or 2005 to pension plans
sponsored by us.  

(4)  Commitments    

As of February 28, 2006, our purchase
commitments for the remainder of 2006 and annually thereafter under various
contracts were as follows (in millions):  

(1)      Primarily aircraft
modifications.  

   (2)      Primarily advertising and
promotions contracts.  

The amounts
reflected in the table above for purchase commitments represent non-cancelable
agreements to purchase goods or services.  Commitments to purchase
aircraft in passenger configuration do not include the attendant costs to
modify these aircraft for cargo transport unless we have entered into
non-cancelable commitments to modify such aircraft.  Open purchase orders
that are cancelable are not considered unconditional purchase obligations and
therefore are not included in the table above. We are committed to purchase
certain aircraft. Deposits and progress payments of $31 million have been made
toward these purchases and other planned aircraft-related transactions. In
addition, we have committed to modify our  

10  

DC10 aircraft
for passenger-to-freighter and two-man cockpit configurations. Future payments
related to these activities are included in the table above. Aircraft and
aircraft-related contracts are subject to price escalations. The following
table is a summary of our aircraft purchase commitments as of February 28, 2006
with the year of expected delivery by type:  

A summary of future minimum
lease payments under capital leases at February 28, 2006 is as follows (in
millions):   

A summary of future minimum
lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases with an initial or
remaining term in excess of one year at February 28, 2006 is as follows (in
millions):   

While certain of our lease agreements
contain covenants governing the use of the leased assets or require us to
maintain certain levels of insurance, none of our lease agreements include
material financial covenants or limitations.  

11  

We make payments under certain leveraged
operating leases that are sufficient to pay principal and interest on certain
pass-through certificates. The pass-through certificates are not our direct
obligations, nor do we guarantee them.  

(5)  Contingencies   

Wage-and-Hour  . We
are a defendant in a number of lawsuits filed in federal or California state
courts containing various class-action allegations under federal or California
wage-and-hour laws. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits are our employees who
allege, among other things, that they were forced to work  off the clock  and
were not provided work breaks or other benefits. The plaintiffs generally seek
unspecified monetary damages, injunctive relief, or both. 

To date, one of these
wage-and-hour cases,   Foster v. FedEx Express  ,
has been certified as a class action. The plaintiffs represent a class of our hourly
employees in California from October 14, 1998 to present. The plaintiffs allege
that hourly employees are routinely required to work  off the clock  and are
not paid for this additional work. The court issued a ruling in December 2004
granting class certification on all issues. In February 2006, the parties
reached a settlement that will be presented to the court for approval. We
continue to deny liability, but entered into the settlement to avoid the cost
and uncertainty of further litigation. The amount of the proposed settlement
was accrued at February 28, 2006 and is not material to FedEx Express.  

Race Discrimination.   On
September 28, 2005, a California federal district court granted class
certification in   Satchell v. FedEx Express  , a
lawsuit     alleging discrimination in the Western
region of the United States against certain current and former minority
employees in pay and promotion. The district court s ruling on class
certification is not a decision on the merits of the plaintiffs  claim and does
not address whether we will be held liable. Trial is currently scheduled for
February 2007. We have denied any liability and intend to vigorously defend
ourself in this case. Given the nature and preliminary status of the claim, we
cannot yet determine the amount or a reasonable range of potential loss in this
matter, if any. It is reasonably possible, however, that we could incur a
material loss as this case develops. 

Other.    We are
subject to other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our
business. In the opinion of management, the aggregate liability, if any, with
respect to these other actions will not materially adversely affect our
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

(6)  Parent/Affiliate Transactions   

Affiliate
company balances that are currently receivable or payable relate to charges for
services provided by or to other FedEx affiliates and are settled on a monthly
basis. The noncurrent intercompany balance amounts at February 28, 2006 and May
31, 2005 primarily represent the net activity from participation in FedEx s
consolidated cash management program. These net amounts are reflected as
financing activities on the statements of cash flows. In addition, we are
allocated interest income on these amounts at market rates.  

We also receive allocated charges from
FedEx Corporate Services, Inc. ( FedEx Services ), a wholly owned subsidiary of
FedEx, for sales, marketing and information technology functions and from FedEx
for management fees related to services received for general corporate
oversight, including executive officers and certain administrative functions. We
believe the total amounts allocated approximate the cost of providing such
services.  

12  

Customers doing business with FedEx
Express, FedEx Ground Package System, Inc. ( FedEx Ground ) and FedEx SmartPost,
Inc. ( FedEx SmartPost ), wholly owned subsidiaries of FedEx, are provided the
ability to receive a single invoice for their shipping charges. Revenue is
recognized by the operating company performing the transportation services and
the corresponding total receivable is recorded and collected by us. The net
customer balances for transportation services performed by FedEx Ground and
FedEx SmartPost are reflected in trade receivables on our balance sheet and
totaled $424 million at February 28, 2006 and $383 million at May 31, 2005.  

(7)  Supplemental Cash
Flow Information   

13  

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED   

   PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM   

The Board of Directors and Stockholder  

  Federal Express Corporation  

We have reviewed the condensed consolidated balance
sheet of Federal Express Corporation as of February 28, 2006, and the related
condensed consolidated statements of income for the three-month and nine-month periods
ended February 28, 2006 and 2005 and the condensed consolidated statements of
cash flows for the nine-month periods ended February 28, 2006 and 2005. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management.  

We conducted our review in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). A
review of interim financial information consists principally of applying
analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial
and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit
conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion
regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not
express such an opinion.  

Based on our review, we are not aware of any material
modifications that should be made to the condensed consolidated financial
statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles.  

We have previously audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated balance sheet of Federal Express Corporation as of May 31, 2005,
and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in owner s equity and
comprehensive income, and cash flows for the year then ended not presented
herein, and in our report dated July 12, 2005, we expressed an unqualified
opinion on those consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the
information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet
as of May 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to
the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived.  

/s/ Ernst   Young
  LLP  

Memphis, Tennessee  

  March 21, 2006  

14  

Item
2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition    

GENERAL   

The following Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition, which
describes the principal factors affecting the results of operations of FedEx
Express, is abbreviated pursuant to General Instruction H(2)(a) of Form 10-Q. This
discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited
condensed consolidated financial statements and our Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended May 31, 2005, which include additional information about our
significant accounting policies, practices and the transactions that underlie
our financial results. For additional information, including a discussion of
outlook, liquidity and capital resources, see the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
of our parent, FedEx Corporation, ( FedEx ), for the quarter ended February 28,
2006. Also, for information regarding our critical accounting policies, see
FedEx s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2005.  

FedEx Express is the
world s largest express transportation company. FedEx Services provides the
customer-facing sales, marketing and information technology functions of FedEx
Express and our sister company FedEx Ground. The costs for these activities are
allocated based on metrics such as relative revenues or estimated services
provided. We believe these allocations approximate the cost of providing these
functions. The operating expenses line item  Intercompany charges  on the
financial summary below represents an allocation primarily of salaries and
benefits, depreciation and other costs for the sales, marketing and information
technology functions provided to us by FedEx Services. In addition,  Intercompany
charges  includes allocated charges from our parent for management fees related
to services received for general corporate oversight, including executive officers
and certain administrative functions. We believe the total amounts allocated
reasonably reflect the cost of providing such services.  

In addition, certain FedEx operating
companies provide transportation and related services for FedEx Express. Billings
for such services are based on negotiated rates which we believe approximate
fair value and are reflected as revenues of the billing company. Such
intercompany revenues and expenses are not separately identified in the
following information as the amounts are not material.  

The key indicators
necessary to understand our operating results include:  

                        the
overall customer demand for our various services; 

                         the volume
of shipments transported through our network, as measured by our average daily
volume and shipment weight;  

                        the
mix of services purchased by our customers; 

                        the
prices we obtain for our services, primarily measured by average price per
shipment (yield); 

                        our
ability to manage our cost structure for capital expenditures and operating
expenses such as salaries and employee benefits and maintenance and repairs and
to match such expenses to shifting volume levels; and 

                        the
timing and amount of fluctuations in jet fuel prices and our ability to recover
incremental fuel costs through our supplemental fuel surcharges. 

Except as otherwise specified, references
to years indicate our fiscal year ending May 31, 2006 or ended May 31 of the
year referenced and comparisons are to the corresponding period of the prior
year.  

15  

RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS   

The following table compares revenues, operating expenses, operating
income and margin (dollars in millions) for the three- and nine-month periods
ended February 28:  

(1)      Operating
expenses for the first nine months of 2006 include a $75 million (before
variable compensation effects) one-time, non-cash charge to adjust the
accounting for certain facility leases.  

16  

The
following table compares selected statistics (in thousands, except yield
amounts) for the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28:  

Revenues   

Total revenues increased
in the third quarter and nine months of 2006, principally due to increases in
International Priority ( IP ), U.S. domestic overnight and U.S. freight
revenues. During the third quarter of 2006, IP revenues grew 12% on a 10%
increase in volume and yield growth of 2%. During the nine months of 2006, IP
revenues grew 13% on an 8% increase in volume and yield growth of 5%. During
the third quarter and nine months of 2006, U.S. domestic package revenues grew
5% and 7% due primarily to yield increases of 8% and 6%.  

Asia experienced strong
average daily volume growth during both the third quarter and nine months of
2006, while outbound shipments from the United States, Europe and Latin America
also increased compared to the prior year. IP and international freight
capacity has increased significantly as a result of our two around-the-world
flights. We may continue to realize increased international freight volume
until higher yielding IP traffic can be sold into the added capacity. The U.S.
domestic package volume decline in the third quarter resulted from a planned
decrease in U.S. domestic deferred volumes, partially offset by growth in our
U.S. domestic overnight services.  

IP yield increased during
the third quarter and nine months of 2006 primarily due to higher fuel
surcharges, improved regional mix and an increase in international average
weight per package, partially offset by currency exchange rate impacts. U.S.
domestic composite yield increases were due to higher fuel surcharge revenue
and improved yield on U.S. domestic deferred packages. We continue to manage
our U.S. domestic deferred yield to improve the profitability of this service. U.S.
freight yield increases were due to an increase in average rate per pound and
higher fuel surcharge revenue. In January 2006, we implemented an average list
price increase of 5.5% on U.S. domestic shipments and U.S. outbound
international shipments, while we lowered our fuel surcharge index by 2%.  

17  

Fuel surcharge
revenue was higher in the third quarter and nine months of 2006 due to higher
jet fuel prices. Our fuel surcharge is indexed to the spot price for jet fuel.   Using this
index, the U.S. domestic and outbound fuel surcharge and the international fuel
surcharges ranged as follows   for the three-
and nine-month periods ended February 28:  

Beginning in November
2005 and continuing into December 2005, we temporarily capped our fuel
surcharges in certain regions to ensure that our services remained
competitively priced in the marketplace.  

Operating Income   

During the third quarter and nine months
of 2006, our operating income grew as a result of strong revenue growth and
improved operating margin. Continued volume growth in higher margin U.S.
domestic overnight and IP services contributed to solid yield improvements.
Improved yields, combined with productivity gains, allowed us to substantially
improve operating margin in the third quarter of 2006. Revenue and margin
growth for the third quarter and nine months of 2006 more than offset a
one-time adjustment for leases in the first quarter and costs associated with
our two around-the-world flights.  

During the third quarter and nine months
of 2006, fuel costs were higher due to an increase in the average price per
gallon of jet fuel, while gallons consumed increased slightly. However, fuel
surcharge revenue mitigated higher jet fuel prices. Purchased transportation
costs increased in the third quarter and nine months of 2006 driven by IP
volume growth, which required a higher utilization of contract pickup and
delivery services. The increase in the nine months of 2006 in rentals and
landing fees is primarily due to the one-time adjustment for leases of $75
million.  

Results for the third quarter of 2006 include a
benefit from the settlement of a trade secrets lawsuit against Accu-Sort
Systems Inc. This benefit was more than offset, however, by accruals relating
to other pending litigation matters. The net effect of these items, either
individually or in the aggregate, was not material.  

Interest and Income Taxes   

Interest income during the third quarter
and nine months of 2006 was   primarily due
to increased intercompany interest income related to higher interest on
intercompany receivables and additional capitalized interest due to significant
increases in the number of aircraft undergoing modifications.  

Our effective tax rate was 36.8% for the
third quarter and 37.6% for the nine months of 2006. We expect the effective
tax rate to approximate 38% for the fourth quarter of 2006; however, the actual
rate will depend on a number of factors, including the amount and source of
operating income. Our effective tax rates for the third quarter and nine months
of 2005 were 37.8% and 37.6%, respectively.  

18  

Business Acquisition   

On January 24, 2006, we
entered into an agreement with Tianjin Datian W. Group Co., Ltd. ( DTW Group )
to acquire DTW Group s 50% share of the FedEx-DTW International Priority
express joint venture ( FedEx-DTW ) and DTW Group s domestic express network in
China for approximately $400 million in cash. This acquisition will convert our
joint venture with DTW Group, formed in 1999 and currently accounted for under
the equity method, into a wholly owned subsidiary and increase our presence in
China in the international and domestic express businesses. The acquisition is
expected to be completed in the first half of 2007.  

FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS   

Certain statements in
this report are  forward-looking  statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the financial
condition, results of operations, cash flows, plans, objectives, future
performance and business of FedEx Express. Forward-looking statements include
those preceded by, followed by or that include the words  may,   could,   would, 
 should,   believes,   expects,   anticipates,   plans,   estimates,   targets, 
 projects,   intends  or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements
involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from
those contemplated (expressed or implied) by such forward-looking statements,
because of, among other things, potential risks and uncertainties, such as:  

economic
conditions in the global markets in which we operate; 

any
impacts on our business resulting from new domestic or international government
regulation, including regulatory actions affecting aviation rights, security
requirements and labor rules; 

the
impact of any international conflicts or terrorist activities on the United
States and global economies in general, or the transportation industry or FedEx
Express in particular, and what effects these events will have on our costs or
the demand for our services; 

our
ability to manage our cost structure for capital expenditures and operating
expenses and match them, especially those relating to aircraft, vehicle and
sort capacity, to shifting customer volume levels; 

the
ability of FedEx to effectively operate, integrate and leverage the FedEx Kinko s
business; 

sudden
changes in fuel prices or currency exchange rates; 

our
ability to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges in response to rising fuel
prices due to competitive pressures; 

significant
changes in the volumes of shipments transported through our network, customer
demand for our various services or the prices we obtain for our services; 

the outcome of negotiations to reach a new
collective bargaining agreement with the union that represents our pilots; 

market acceptance of our new service and growth
initiatives; 

competition
from other providers of transportation services, including our ability to
compete with new or improved services offered by our competitors; 

the
impact of technology developments on our operations and on demand for our
services; 

technology
infrastructure disruptions, including those impacting the Internet or our
computer systems and Web site; 

our
ability to obtain and maintain aviation rights in important international
markets; 

adverse
weather conditions or natural disasters; 

19  

widespread
outbreak of an illness, such as avian influenza (bird flu), severe acute
respiratory syndrome (SARS) or any other communicable disease, or any other
public health crisis; 

availability
of financing on acceptable terms; and 

other risks and uncertainties you can find in the
press releases and SEC filings of FedEx and FedEx Express. 

As a result of these and
other factors, no assurance can be given as to our future results and
achievements. Accordingly, a forward-looking statement is neither a prediction
nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances and those future events or
circumstances may not occur. You should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We
are under no obligation, and we expressly disclaim any obligation, to update or
alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise.  

20  

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk     

Omitted under the reduced disclosure
format permitted by General Instruction H(2)(c) of Form 10-Q.  

Item 4.
Controls and Procedures    

Our management, with the
participation of our principal executive and financial officers, has evaluated
the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures in ensuring that
the information required to be disclosed in our filings under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange
Commission s rules and forms, including ensuring that such information is
accumulated and communicated to management as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our
principal executive and financial officers have concluded that such disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of February 28, 2006 (the end of the
period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q).  

During our fiscal quarter ended February
28, 2006, no change occurred in our internal control over financial reporting
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.  

21  

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION   

Item 6. Exhibits     

22  

SIGNATURE   

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
authorized.  

FEDERAL EXPRESS
  CORPORATION  

Date: March 24, 2006  

/s/   

JAY L. COFIELD  

JAY L. COFIELD  

VICE PRESIDENT  

WORLDWIDE CONTROLLER  

(PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING
  OFFICER)  

23  

EXHIBIT INDEX    

E-1  

<EX-12.1>
 2
 a06-7278_1ex12d1.htm
 STATEMENTS REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

EXHIBIT 12.1   

FEDERAL EXPRESS CORPORATION   

   COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES   

   (UNAUDITED)   

   (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT RATIOS)   

</EX-12.1>

<EX-15.1>
 3
 a06-7278_1ex15d1.htm
 LETTER RE UNAUDITED INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION

EXHIBIT 15.1   

The Board of Directors and
Stockholder  

  Federal Express Corporation  

We are aware of the
incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement Form S-3 No.
333-86342-16 of Federal Express Corporation and in the related Prospectus, of
our report dated March 21, 2006, relating to the unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements of Federal Express Corporation that are
included in its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2006.  

</EX-15.1>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 a06-7278_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.1   

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO   

   RULES 13a-14(a) AND
15d-14(a) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,   

   AS ADOPTED
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, David J. Bronczek, certify that:  

1.        I
have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Federal Express
Corporation (the  registrant  

2.        Based on my knowledge, this
report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.        Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this report,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report;  

4.        The registrant s other
certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a)      Designed such disclosure
controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to
be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

(b)      Designed such internal control
over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c)      Evaluated the effectiveness of
the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this
report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

(d)      Disclosed in this report any
change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.        The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a)      All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

(b)      Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 24, 2006  

/s/ David J. Bronczek  

David J. Bronczek  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 a06-7278_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.2   

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO   

   RULES 13a-14(a) AND
15d-14(a) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,   

   AS ADOPTED
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, Cathy D. Ross, certify that:  

1.        I have reviewed this
quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Federal Express Corporation (the  registrant  

2.        Based on my knowledge, this
report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.        Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this report,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report;  

4.        The registrant s other
certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a)      Designed such disclosure
controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to
be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

(b)      Designed such internal control
over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c)      Evaluated the effectiveness of
the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this
report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d)      Disclosed in this report any
change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.        The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a)      All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

(b)      Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 24, 2006  

/s/ Cathy D. Ross  

Cathy D. Ross  

Senior Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 a06-7278_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.1   

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Federal Express Corporation
( FedEx Express ) on Form 10-Q for the period ended February 28, 2006
as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ),
I, David J. Bronczek, President and Chief Executive Officer of FedEx Express,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

(1)          The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)          The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of FedEx Express. 

Date: March 24, 2006  

/s/ David J.
  Bronczek  

David J. Bronczek  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 7
 a06-7278_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.2   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Federal Express Corporation
( FedEx Express ) on Form 10-Q for the period ended February 28, 2006 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ),
I, Cathy D. Ross, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of FedEx
Express, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

(1)            The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)            The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of FedEx Express. 

Date: March 24, 2006  

/s/ Cathy D. Ross  

Cathy D. Ross  

Senior Vice President  

and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32.2>

