<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060317_10-Q_edgar_data_36369_0001003297-06-000103_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>347391</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>55526</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>228951</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>32</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001003297-06-000103.hdr.sgml : 20060317
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060317165807
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001003297-06-000103
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060317
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060317

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FIRST HARTFORD CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000036369
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE [6500]
		IRS NUMBER:				010185800
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			ME
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0430

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-08862
		FILM NUMBER:		06696587

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		149 COLONIAL RD
		CITY:			MANCHESTER
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06045-1270
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8606466555

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		149 COLONIAL RD
		CITY:			MANCHESTER
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06045-1270

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	WYANDOTTE INDUSTRIES CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880803

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 AzWzCOC7QBCYEf2X31f1m6MIkr9zvq6cGR8ckmK1wGrvox6MRaRkBimM/Z9022P/
 amc5JLtyxh6ptSe3g1eV+g==

 0001003297-06-000103.txt : 20060317

10-Q
 1
 firsthartford10q21.htm

First Hartford Corporation Form 10-Q by www.edgar2.com 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, D.C.  20549  

FORM 10-Q   

  (Mark One)  

[x]      QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

  For the quarterly period
ended January  31, 2006.  
                                                                                                             
OR  

[  ]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

For the transition period
		from _______________________________________ to
__________________________________________  

Commission File Number:
______________________________________________________________________________________  

First
Hartford Corporation 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Maine  

01-0185800   

(State or other jurisdiction of
		incorporation or organization)     
		 
		  (I.R.S.
Employer Identification No.)  

149 Colonial Road   
		Manchester, CT  

06045-1270     

(Address of principal executive offices)  

(Zip Code)    

860-646-6555  

(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)  

(Former name, former address and former fiscal year,
if changed since last report)  

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.     X
Yes       No         

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer.  See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  

Large accelerated filer                                                       Accelerated
filer                                                                 Non-accelerated
filer X  

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).           Yes      X No  

APPLICABLE ONLY TO
CORPORATE ISSUERS:  
  Indicate the number of
shares outstanding of each of the issuer's classes of common stock, as of the
latest practicable date.  
  3,046,279 as of March
14, 2006  

FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDARIES   

   INDEX   

PART I.
   
		    FINANCIAL INFORMATION   
   
		     PAGE    

Item 1.   
		  Financial Statements  

Condensed Consolidated
		Balance Sheets     

January 31, 2006
		(unaudited) and April 30, 2005 (audited)             
		 
		  3 - 4  

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss   

For the Three
		and Nine Months  

Ended January
		31, 2006 and 2005 (unaudited)   
		  5  

Condensed
		Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   

For the Nine
		Months  

Ended January
		31, 2006 and 2005 (unaudited)   
		   6-7  

Notes
		to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements     
		  8-14  

Item 2.  
		  
		 Management's Discussion and Analysis  of Financial Condition

15  

and Results of Operations  

Item 3.   
		   Quantitative and
		Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
		  15-16  

Item 4.   
		   Controls and Procedures
		    
		  16  

PART II   
		    OTHER INFORMATION    

Item 1.  
		   Legal
		Proceedings   
		  16-17  

Item 1A.  
		   Risk Factors   
		  18  

Item 2.  
		  
		 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds   
		  18  

Item 3.  
		  
		 Defaults Upon Senior
		Securities   
		  18  

Item 4.  
		  
		 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
		  18  

Item 5  
		   Other
		Information   
		  19 - 20  

Item 6.   
		   Exhibits   
		  20   

Signatures   
		  21  

PART I.          FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

ITEM 1.          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS    

   ASSETS   

The accompanying
notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements  
  3  

FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
(continued)   

The accompanying
notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements  

FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND
COMPREHENSIVE LOSS  
    (Unaudited)   

The accompanying
notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements  

FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  
(Unaudited)   

The accompanying
notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements  

FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(continued)   

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements  

FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

   1.            Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies:   

Description
of Business   

  First Hartford Corporation was incorporated in Maine
in 1909, and is engaged in the purchase, development, ownership, management and
sale of real estate.  

Principles
of Consolidation   

  The accompanying condensed consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of First Hartford Corporation, its wholly owned
subsidiaries and other controlled subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the
 Company ).  The Company records minority interest for the non-owned portions
of consolidated subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany transactions and
accounts have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements,
including construction revenues and costs of development for the Company's own
use (rental/future sale).     

Financial
Statement Presentation   

  The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles for interim financial information and with the
instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they
do not include all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted
accounting principles for complete financial statements. In the opinion of
management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals and
adjustments to previously established loss provisions) considered necessary for
a fair presentation have been included. Operating results for the three and
nine month periods ended January 31, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of the
results that may be expected for the year ending April 30, 2006. For further
information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and footnotes
thereto included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended April 30, 2005.  

Because the Company is engaged in the development and
sale of real estate at various stages of construction, the operating cycle may
extend beyond one year.  Accordingly, following the usual practice of the real
estate industry, the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets are
unclassified.  

Certain reclassifications have been made to prior
period information to conform to the current period presentation.  

Statements of Cash Flows   

  For purposes of the statements of cash flows, the
Company considers all highly liquid securities purchased with an original
maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.  

Developed
Properties, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements   

  Developed properties, equipment and leasehold
improvements are recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value.    

Depreciation and amortization is provided using the
straight-line method for financial reporting purposes based on the following
estimated useful lives:  

FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Continued)   

1.            Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies (continued):   

Developed Properties, Equipment and Leasehold
Improvements (continued):   

Description   

Years   

Developed properties  

15 - 40  

Equipment and leasehold
  improvements  

3  - 10  

Expenditures for major renewals and betterments, which
extend the useful lives of developed properties, and equipment and leasehold
improvements are capitalized.  Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are
charged to operations as incurred.    

   Properties
Under Construction   

Expenditures directly related to real estate under
consideration for development, are capitalized and are carried at cost in the
consolidated condensed balance sheets.  These costs include but are not limited
to option payments, attorney's fees, architect and engineering fees and
consultants, but only to the extent they are from outside sources.  If the
project is later abandoned, all of the accumulated costs are charged to
expense.  Costs for in-house engineering and drafting, estimating and
purchasing and development are expensed as incurred.     

Leasing costs are capitalized when leases are signed
(cost incurred) and include direct commissions, salaries and expenses.  These
costs are amortized over the life of the lease.     

Deferred
Expenses   

  Leasing commissions and financing costs (included in deposits, escrows,
prepaid and deferred expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated
balance sheets) are amortized using the straight-line method over the terms of
the related leases and mortgages, respectively.  

   Revenue
Recognition   

Rental Income - Rental income is comprised of base rent
and reimbursements for certain costs such as real estate taxes, utilities,
insurance, common area maintenance and other recoverable costs as provided in
the lease agreements. There are no contingent rents.  In accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13  Accounting for Leases ,
rental income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the
respective leases.  

  Developer Fee Income - The Company obtains fees from
certain third parties for assisting them in identifying and developing sites
for facilities.  Income from these transactions is recognized when all
stipulations of the underlying agreement between the parties have been met or
performed by the Company.  

Construction Revenue - The Company is primarily
involved in development of properties for its own use.  However, revenues from
projects built for third parties are recognized on the percentage-of-completion
method of accounting based on costs incurred to date in relation to total
actual costs and estimated costs to complete.  Revisions in costs and profit
estimates are reflected in operations during the accounting period in which the
facts become known.  The Company provides for estimated losses on contracts in
the    

FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Continued)   

1.            Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies (continued):   

Revenue Recognition (continued):   

year such losses become known. A subsidiary, Lead
Tech, Inc., does lead and asbestos inspections and remediation and recognizes
revenue as services are provided.  

   Investment In Affiliates   

Investments in entities in which the Company has less
than a 20% interest are carried at cost. Distributions received from those
entities are included in income.  Distributions received in excess of the
Company's proportionate share of capital are applied
as a reduction of the cost of the investments.  Investments in entities in
which the Company has a 20-50% interest are carried at cost and are
subsequently adjusted for the Company's proportionate share of their
undistributed earnings or losses, and any distributions (Equity Method).  

OPERATING RESULTS OF NONCONSOLIDATED 50% OWNED
SUBSIDIARIES  

The Company currently has two unconsolidated operating
partnerships:  Cranston Parkade, LLC, which owns a shopping center in Cranston,
RI (the Company owned a 25% interest up to April 27, 2005 and 50% thereafter)
and Dover Parkade, LLC, which owns a shopping center in Dover Township, NJ in
which the Company owns a 50% interest.  Although the Company exercises some
influence, the Company does not control the operating and financial policies of
these partnerships and, therefore, these partnerships are not consolidated.  

Cranston Parkade, LLC reports on a calendar year and
is not adjusted to the Company's April 30 year-end resulting in a consistent
four-month gap in its results of operations as reported by the Company.  The
operating income up to the date of acquisition of the additional interest was
approximately $255,000 and from the date of acquisition of the additional
interest to the end of the nine-month period was approximately $320,000.  The
loss on early retirement of debt occurred immediately after the acquisition of
the additional interest.  

These investments are recorded at cost and have been
subsequently adjusted for gains, losses and distributions.  To the extent the
carrying value is less than zero, such amount is carried in other liabilities
in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.  

FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Continued)   

   1.            Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies (continued):   

   Fair
Value of Derivative Instruments   

In the normal course of business, the Company is
exposed to the effects of interest rate changes.  To mitigate the exposure to
unexpected changes in interest rates, derivatives are used primarily to hedge
against rate movements on some of the Company's related debt. In accordance
with SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities , since the Company's interest rate swaps have not been designated
as a hedge they must be recognized as an asset or liability and adjusted to
fair value through income in the current period.  

On June 10, 2005 the Company refinanced the mortgage
on the Katharine Gibbs College building by executing a new mortgage for
$11,377,866 with the same lender.  The previous mortgage called for interest at
30 day Libor plus 2% with an 8% rate cap, amortizing over 20 years, due April
1, 2008.  The new mortgage rate is fixed at 6.11% and has a 25-year
amortization starting in June 2007. The mortgage will have a balloon payment on
June 10, 2015.  To obtain this refinancing the Company became liable for a swap
contract entered into by the bank.    

In January 2006 a construction loan and mortgage was
consummated with the above lender for a Police Station to be built for and
leased to the City of Cranston, R.I.  The lease contains a bargain purchase
option which will require that it be accounted for as a capital lease.  The
construction loan is based on the 30 day LIBOR rate plus 1.25% and effectively
converts to a 24   year self liquidating mortgage starting January 1, 2007. 
The Company has become liable for a swap contract entered into by the bank
which effectively converts the mortgage to a rate of 6.41%.  

Fair Value Of Swaps Liability   

As a result of the above swaps the Company has
expensed approximately $160,000 and $235,000 in the three and nine month
periods ended January 31, 2006, respectively.  

Accounting
For The Impairment Or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets   

The Company has adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal
of Long-Lived Assets , which established a single accounting model for the
impairment or disposal of long-lived assets including discontinued operations. 
SFAS No. 144 requires that the operations related to properties that have been
sold or properties that are intended to be sold be presented as discontinued
operations in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss
for all periods presented, and properties that are intended to be sold be
designated as  held for sale  on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.  

Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amount of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities as of the    

FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Continued)   

1.            Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies (continued):   

Estimates (continued):   

date of the financial statements, and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results
could differ from those estimates.  

   Marketable
Securities   

In accordance with SFAS No. 115  Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  the Company determines the
appropriate classification of its investments in debt and equity securities at
the time of purchase and re-evaluates such determination at each balance sheet
date.  Debt securities for which the Company does not have the intent to hold
to maturity are classified as available-for-sale, along with the Company's
investment in equity securities.  

Securities available-for-sale are carried at fair
value, with the unrealized gains and losses reported in other comprehensive
income (loss).  

   Stock
Compensation   

The Company applies Accounting Principles Board
Opinion 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 ) and related
interpretations in accounting for its stock awards, and complies with the
disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation .  Under APB 25, compensation expense is recognized over the
vesting period to the extent that the fair market value of the underlying common stock on the measurement date
exceeds the exercise price of the employee stock award.     

Compensation cost for the Company's employee stock
option plans determined based on the fair value at the grant date of awards
under these plans consistent with the methodology of SFAS No. 123, has not been
presented because the 250,000 options outstanding vest on February 11, 2006.  

   Income
Taxes   

In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the
Company estimates future taxable income, considering the feasibility of ongoing
tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax loss carryforwards.
Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be impacted by the
changes to tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and future taxable income
levels. In the event the Company was to determine that it would not be able to
realize all or a portion of its deferred tax assets in the future, it would
increase the recorded valuation allowance through a charge to income in the
period in which that determination is made. Conversely, if the Company were to
determine that it would be able to realize its deferred tax assets in the
future in excess of the net carrying amounts, it would decrease the recorded
valuation allowance through an increase to income in the period in which that
determination is made.  

As of October 31, 2005, the Company has concluded that
it is more likely than not that the Company will realize $2,730,000 in deferred
tax assets. Accordingly, the Company has recognized a deferred tax benefit of
$0 and $1,030,000 for the three and nine month periods ended January 31, 2006,
respectively.  

Loss
Per Common Share   

Loss per common share is based on the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding during the three and nine month periods
ended January 31, 2006. Due to the Company's net loss, the effect of    

FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Continued)   

1.         Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies (continued):   

Loss Per Common Share (continued):   

common stock equivalents are anti-dilutive and
therefore have not been considered in the calculation of loss per common share.  

New
Accounting Standards   

  In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123
(revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123 (R)).  SFAS 123 (R) requires
companies to recognize in the statement of operations the grant-date fair value
of stock options and other equity based compensation.  The cost will be
recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide
service in exchange for the award, usually the vesting period.  Subsequent changes in fair value during the
requisite service period, measured at each reporting date, will be recognized
as compensation cost over that period.  

In April 2005, the SEC extended the effective date for
SFAS No. 123 (R) for public companies, to the beginning of a registrant's next
fiscal year that begins after June 15, 2005.  The Company will be required to
adopt SFAS No. 123 (R) in its first quarter of fiscal 2007.  The Company is
evaluating the impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (R) on the Company's
financial position and results of operations.  

In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations (an interpretation of FASB No. 143)  ( FIN
47 ). This Interpretation provides clarification with respect to the
timing of liability recognition for legal obligations associated with the
retirement of tangible long-lived assets when the timing and/or method of
settlement of the obligation are conditional on a future event.
FIN 47 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial
position and results of operations.  

2.         Legal
Proceedings   

  Additional
lawsuits have been filed against the Company by a dissident shareholder.  See
Part II, Item 1.  

Item 2.           
                
      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL  CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

The financial and business
analysis below provides information which the Company believes is relevant to
an assessment and understanding of the Company's financial position and results
of operations.  This financial and business analysis should be read in
conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related
notes.  

The following discussion and certain other sections of
this Report on Form 10-Q contain statements reflecting the Company's views
about its future performance and constitute  forward-looking statements  under
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These views may involve
risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and may cause the
Company's actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in
such forward-looking statements.  Readers should consider how various factors
including changes in general economic conditions, cost of materials, interest
rates and availability of funds, and the nature of competition and
relationships with key customers may affect the Company's performance.  The
Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or other.  

Item 2.            
                
      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL  CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

   Critical Accounting Policies   

The
discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is
based upon the condensed consolidated financial statements contained in Item 1
in this Quarterly Report.  The condensed consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of the Company and its controlled affiliates.  The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date
of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
for the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.  

The discussion included in Item
7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2005 under the
subheading  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  is still considered
current and applicable, and is hereby incorporated into this Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q.  

Results of Operations   

The three and nine month periods ended January 31, 2006
resulted in net losses of $765,287 and $3,158,615, respectively.  The net
losses for the three and nine month periods ended January 31, 2005 were
$636,871 and $962,284, respectively.  A significant amount of the current loss
was a result of debt refinancing, not operations.  The losses from
refinancing's are summarized as follows:     

Excluding the net effect of the above refinancing, the losses are
approximately $606,000 and $1,040,000 respectively, for the three and nine month
periods ended January 31, 2006.  

For the three and nine month
periods ended January 31, 2006 rental income has increased approximately
$52,000 and $669,000, respectively, from the corresponding periods in 2005. 
The increases were due to the addition of occupied stores which were acquired
in the North Adams shopping center as well as additional stores finished in the
West Springfield shopping center.  An additional 53,000 s.f. is under
construction in North Adams, Massachusetts and is leased.  Corresponding
costs for real estate taxes, insurance and common area, billed to tenants, also
result in increased rental income.  Included in service income for the
three and nine months ended January 31, 2006 are fees for service provided to CVS
Pharmacy of $175,000 and $860,000, respectively.  Prior periods did not have
any income from this source.  

Included in selling, general
and administrative are costs related to our joint venture into multi-family
housing of $121,000 and $296,000 for the three and nine months ended January
31, 2006.  This venture, which started January 1, 2005, has not generated any
income to date.     

The litigation against the
Company by a dissident shareholder has cost the Company $110,000 and $205,000
in legal fees during the three and nine month periods ended January 31, 2006,
respectively.     

In the current three month
period the Company has also provided $200,000 as an allowance for a potential
uncollectible receiveable from a property acquisition.  The Company is suing
for recovery.     

Item 2.           
               
     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL  CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

   Results of Operations (continued):   

Other than the above, the
addition of new employees, salary increases and related salary benefits account
for the balance of the increase in selling general and administrative  

In
the current quarter the partnership that owns the Gibbs College building (CP
Associates, LLC) has signed a lease with the City of Cranston for a 60,000 s.f.
building to be constructed by Brewery Parkade (a 100% owned subsidiary of First
Hartford) on property owned by CP Associates, LLC.  The 25 year lease calls for
monthly payments of $88,750 plus a lump sum payment of $1,000,000 for a
contribution to improvements (included in other liabilities), another
$1,500,000 six months after occupancy and $1,000,000 at the end of the lease. 
The lease constitutes a bargain purchase option, therefore the City will own
the building at lease maturity.  

The bank financing is 1.5% over the one month LIBOR
rate.  The loan is structured as an Economic Development Revenue Bond issued by
the Rhode Island Facility Corporation, a public corporation and governmental
agency of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantation.  

The
Company has arranged with the bank for a swap which is effective January 1,
2007, which fixes the permanent rate at 6.41% for 24.5 years, at which time the
loan will be fully amortized.  The approximate value of the swap at January 31,
2006 was $148,000 and is included in loss on derivatives.     

The City of Cranston has
received a $1,000,000 Bank Letter of Credit, to be returned upon building
completion.  The construction loan, the Letter of Credit and Construction
Guarantee were all personally guaranteed by Neil Ellis, the President of the
Company, without any consideration.  

The Company has not yet
completed the sale of the Bangor, Maine shopping center to date.  Management
expects to close prior to the end of March.  The sale price of the center is
$27,340,000 less a $436,000 holdback for approximately $24,000 s.f. of unleased
and unfinished space.  A broker fee and closing cost should reduce the proceeds
by approximately $550,000.  After payment of approximately $17,515,000 due on
the construction loan, the Company expects net proceeds of approximately
$8,800,000.  Additional income will be realized by the Company if it secures
occupancies for the unleased space within 18 months of the closing date.  Due
to the delay in closing the Bangor sale, the Company has obtained a $1,500,000
line of credit.  At March 14, 2006, $600,000 was borrowed on this line at prime
plus 1%.  Neil Ellis has personally guaranteed this loan and has not received
any consideration for the guarantee.  

Item
3.                       
     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
MARKET RISK     

Interest Rate Risk:  Changes in
interest rates can potentially impact the Company's profitability and its ability
to realize assets and satisfy liabilities.  Interest rate risk is present
primarily in the Company's borrowings, some of which have variable interest
rates.  To mitigate the exposure to unexpected changes in interest rates,
derivatives are used primarily to hedge against rate movements on some of the
Company's variable related debt.  

Item 3.           
    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (continued)    

On
June 10, 2005 the Company refinanced the mortgage on the Katharine Gibbs
College building by executing a new mortgage for $11,377,866 with the same
lender.  The previous mortgage called for interest at 30 day Libor plus 2% with
an 8% rate cap, amortizing over 20 years, due April 1, 2008.  The new mortgage
rate is fixed at 6.11% and has a 25-year amortization starting in June 2007.
The mortgage will have a balloon payment on June 10, 2015.  To obtain this
refinancing the Company became liable for a swap contract entered into by the
bank.    

In
January 2006 a construction loan and mortgage was consummated with the above
lender for a police station to be built for and leased to the City of Cranston,
R.I..  The lease contains a bargain purchase option which will require that it
be accounted for as a capital lease.  The construction loan is based on the 30
day LIBOR rate plus 1.25% and converts to a 24   year self liquidating mortgage
starting January 1, 2007.  The Company has become liable for a swap contract
entered into by the bank which converts the mortgage to a rate of 6.41%.  

Fair Value Of Swaps Liability   

As a result of the above
swaps the Company has expensed approximately $159,000 and $235,000 in the three
and nine month periods ended January 31, 2006, respectively.  

Item 4.                        
    CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES    

   Disclosure Controls and
Procedures   .  

The Company's management, with
the participation of the Company's chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls
and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) as of the
end of the period covered by this report.  Based on such evaluation, the
Company's chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that,
as of the end of such period, the Company's disclosure controls and procedures
are effective in recording, processing, summarizing and reporting, on a timely basis, information required to
be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the
Exchange Act.  

Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting   

There have not been any changes
in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (as such term is
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the
period to which this report relates that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over
financial reporting.  

PART II          OTHER
INFORMATION   

   Item 1.                 LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS     

  On
January 29, 2004, a shareholder filed a Form 13D with the Securities and
Exchange Commission indicating that he controls over 19% of the Company's
shares.  That shareholder was Richard E. Kaplan, purportedly a resident of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  By Complaint dated February 27, 2004, Mr.
Kaplan filed suit against First Hartford Corporation (the  Company  or  FHC )
as Civil Action No. 04 10402 NMG in the United States District Court for the
District of Massachusetts.  The Company was served with the complaint on March
2,    

PART II          OTHER
INFORMATION   

   Item
1.                LEGAL PROCEEDINGS (continued):    

2004. 
The complaint alleges that the proxy solicitation materials issued by the
Company as a prelude to its annual meeting on January 22, 2004, were false
and/or misleading in certain respects and also omitted certain material information. 
As a result thereof, the plaintiff seeks to void the shareholder votes taken at
the January 22, 2004 shareholder meeting of the Company and have a new vote
ordered based upon revised proxy material which would be required to be issued
by the Company.  The shareholder votes taken at the annual meeting were to
re-elect the Board of Directors, which had been serving the Company, and to
approve the Employee Stock Option Plan.  

Additionally,
on February 27, 2005, Mr. Kaplan filed another suit against the Company in the
same court as Civil Action No.  05 10320 NMG (United States District Court for
the District of Massachusetts) making essentially the same claims as the first
suit with regard to the Company's 2005 annual meeting.  The shareholder vote
for the February 24, 2005 meeting was to re-elect the Board of Directors, which
had been serving the Company and a proposal brought forth by Mr. Kaplan to
require the Company to have 80% independent directors.    The proposal was
defeated 1,860,706 to 662,672.     

On
July 12, 2005 the District Court Judge approved a request by the Company to
consolidate the cases.  

On
September 15, 2005 Mr. Kaplan filed another suit styled as Civil Action No.
05-144-B-H (United States District Court of Maine) Richard E. Kaplan -
Plaintiff v. First Hartford Corporation and Neil Ellis Defendants, again making
the same claims as his prior suits.  Mr. Kaplan is now asking for the following
relief:  

1)   enter
a judgment dissolving FHC and appointing a receiver to (a) preserve the assets
and business of FHC pending its liquidation, (b) rescind transactions in which
FHC assets were diverted to Ellis and his related entities, (c) recover from
Ellis and his related entities all damages to which FHC is entitled on account
of their wrongdoing, and (d) liquidate and wind-up the business of FHC in such
manner and over such time as is determined to be in the best interests of its
shareholders, and  

2)   appoint
a receiver pendente lite to preserve the corporate assets of FHC and to carry
on the business of FHC until a full hearing can be held.  

Alternatively,
Kaplan requests pursuant to 13-C M.R.S.A.    1430   1434, that the Court
enter an order providing for the purchase at fair value by Ellis and/or FHC of
Kaplan's shares (and the shares of other shareholders who desire to sell), or
for the appointment of one or more independent receivers or directors with full
access to FHC corporate and financial records to make recommendations
concerning the preservation of the value of FHC and its affairs in light of the
self-dealing of Ellis and his other illegal, oppressive, and fraudulent acts,
and    

  the
recovery on behalf of FHC of assets diverted to Ellis and his related entities
and damages sustained by FHC on account of the wrongdoing of Ellis and his
related entities, and such other relief as the Court may deem appropriate. 
Kaplan further requests that he be awarded his costs and attorneys fees
incurred in the bringing of this action.  

The
Company believes strongly that information in its proxy materials was neither
false nor misleading, the allegations against Mr. Ellis are without any
foundation and that the lawsuit is without merit.  It is the intention of the
Company to counter claim and sue for legal fees and any other consequential
damages.  

On
February 28, 2006 First Hartford has filed a Motion For Summary Judgment in
Massachusetts (this would have no bearing on the Maine suit).  On March 8, 2006
Kaplan filed an additional lawsuit in Massachusetts expanding to the last Proxy
Statement but making the same charges.    

The Company is not aware of any
other material legal proceedings which would need to be cited herein.  

PART II          OTHER
INFORMATION (continued):   

   Item 1A.         
     RISK
FACTORS     

All
phases of the real estate business are inherently speculative and intensely
competitive with many enterprises, both large and small, engaged in businesses
similar to the Company's throughout the United States.  The success of the
Company, to a large extent, depends upon factors which may be beyond the
control of management.  Some of these factors are variable construction costs,
the mortgage market, real estate taxes, income tax laws, government
regulations, the commercial rental market and the economy.  The ability of the Company
to meet its debt service obligations and to operate profitably is also
dependent on its ability to attract tenants and to compete successfully with
the numerous other commercial properties available to prospective tenants.  The
ability to attract tenants is dependent upon the changing character of the
areas in which the Company's properties are located, the rate of new
construction in those areas and the extent of present and future competition in
those areas.  The Company's holdings have become less diversified both
geographically and in use and types of occupancy.  

The
Company's assets are concentrated mostly in the Northeast which creates a
geographic diversification risk.  The Company presently has properties from
Southern New Jersey to Maine.  

The
real estate business does not experience  backlogs  as that term is generally
understood, nor is it seasonal.  

To
the Company's knowledge, its real estate business is not dependent upon a
single customer but there is a dependency on supermarkets for strip malls.  The
Company has Stop   Shop, Price Rite and Big Y as such tenants.  

   Item 2.                  
    
 UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS     

(a)                
Not Applicable.  

(b)                
Not Applicable.  

(c)                
Not Applicable.  

Item 3.                       DEFAULTS
UPON SENIOR SECURITIES     

(a)                
Not Applicable.  

(b)                 Not Applicable.  The Company has
not declared any dividends.  

Item 4.                       SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS     

(a)                
On November 30, 2005 the Company
held its annual meeting of shareholders.  

(b)                
The following directors were
elected for a one year term at the meeting:  

(c)                
Other matters voted upon:  

Proposal
to ratify  

PART II          OTHER INFORMATION (continued):   

   Item 5.             
     OTHER
INFORMATION     

CODE OF ETHICS
APPLICABLE TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES   

On September 20, 2005, the Board of Directors of First
Hartford Corporation adopted this Code of Ethics Applicable to Senior
Executives as contemplated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  It is
critical to the success of the Company and in the best interests of its
stockholders that its employees conduct themselves honestly and
ethically.  In particular, each senior executive of the Company, including
the President and Chief Executive Officer, the Vice President-Finance, the
Treasurer and the Controller ( Senior Executives ), are required to
observe the highest standards of ethical business conduct, including strict
adherence to this Code of Ethics Applicable to Senior Executives (this
 Code ).  Accordingly, each Senior Executive must comply with
the letter and spirit of the following:  

Each Senior Executive will act
     at all times honestly and ethically, including the ethical handling of
     actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal and professional
     relationships.  
   
	  Each Senior Executive must
     ensure that all reasonable and necessary steps within his or her areas of
     responsibility are taken to provide full, fair, accurate, timely and
     understandable disclosure in reports and documents that the Company files
     with or submits to the Securities and Exchange Commission or state
     regulators, and in all other regulatory filings.  In addition, Senior
     Executives must provide full, fair, accurate, and understandable
     information whenever communicating with the Company's stockholders or the
     general public. 
   
	  Each Senior Executive must take
     all reasonable measures to protect the confidentiality of non-public information
     about the Company, its business, operations and customers obtained or
     created in connection with such Senior Executive Officer's activities and
     to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of any such information, unless
     required by law, regulation or legal or regulatory process.   
   
	  All Senior Executives must conduct Company business in
     compliance with all applicable federal, state, foreign and local laws,
     rules and regulations. 
   
	  Senior Executives shall not
     directly or indirectly take any action to fraudulently influence, coerce,
     manipulate or mislead the Company's independent public auditors for the
     purposes of rendering the financial statements of the Company misleading. 
   
	  It is each Senior Executive's
     responsibility to notify promptly the General Counsel regarding any actual
     or potential violation of this Code and/or any applicable securities or
     other laws, rules or regulations by any Senior Executive.  Senior
     Executives may choose to remain anonymous in reporting any possible
     violation of this Code.  All Senior Executives are responsible for
     ensuring that their own conduct complies with this Code. 
   
	  Anyone who violates the
     provisions of this Code by engaging in unethical conduct, failing to
     report conduct potentially violative of this Code or refusing to participate
     in any investigation of such conduct, will be subject to disciplinary
     actions, up to and including termination of service with the
     Company.  Violations of this Code may also constitute violations of
     law and may result in civil or criminal penalties for a Senior Executive
     or the Company.  

PART II          OTHER
INFORMATION (continued):   

   Item 5.                OTHER
INFORMATION (continued):    

   CODE OF ETHICS
APPLICABLE TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES (continued)   

The Board of Directors of the
     Company shall be responsible for the administration of this Code and shall
     have the sole authority to amend this Code or grant waivers of its
     provisions.  Waivers will be disclosed as required by the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules thereunder.  
 
    ACKNOWLEDGEMENT    
  The undersigned Senior Executive hereby acknowledge that the Executive has
     received a copy of the Company's code of Ethics Applicable to Senior
     Executives and that he or she has read and understood this Code in its
     entirety and agrees to abide by it.  The Senior Executive further
     acknowledges that it is his or her responsibility to seek clarification
     from the Company's General Counsel if any application of the Code to a
     particular circumstance is not clear.  The Senior Executive
     acknowledges that the Senior Executives' continued service with the
     Company requires the Senior Executive to fully adhere to this Code and
     that failure to do so can result in disciplinary
action up to and including termination of the Senior Executive's employment by
the Company.  

Item 6.               EXHIBITS

a)         Exhibits:  

Exhibit 31.1       Certification of
Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.  

Exhibit 31.2       Certification of
Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.  

Exhibit 32.1       Certification of
Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.  

Exhibit 32.2       Certification of
Chief Financial Officers, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.  

SIGNATURES     

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  

First
Hartford Corporation 

(Registrant)  

March 17, 2006  

/s/Neil H. Ellis  

Date  

Neil H. Ellis - President and    

Chief Executive Officer  

March 17, 2006  

/s/Stuart I. Greenwald    

Date  

Stuart I. Greenwald - Treasurer    

and Chief Financial Officer  

21  

<EX-31.1>
 2
 ex31-1.htm

Exhibit 31.1 

Exhibit 31.1   

CERTIFICATIONS  

Certification requirements set forth in Section 302(a) of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.  

I, Neil H. Ellis, certify that:  

1.   
		  I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of
First Hartford Corporation.  

2.  
		  Based on my knowledge, this quarterly report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect
to the period covered by this report;  

3.  
		  Based on
my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for,
the years presented in this quarterly report;  

4.  
		  The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have:  

(a)  
		  Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)  
		  Designed such internal
control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;  

(c)  
		  Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)  
		  Disclosed in this
report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and    

5.   
		  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions);  

(a)  
		  All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)  
		  Any fraud, whether or
not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant
		role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: March 17, 2006 
   
  By: /s/  Neil H. Ellis                
       Neil H. Ellis 
      President  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 ex31-2.htm

Exhibit 31.2 

Exhibit 31.2   

CERTIFICATIONS  

Certification requirements set forth in Section 302(a) of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.  

I, Stuart I. Greenwald, certify that:  

1.   
		  I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of
First Hartford Corporation.  

2.  
		  Based on my knowledge, this quarterly report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect
to the period covered by this report.  

3.  
		  Based on
my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for,
the years presented in this quarterly report;  

4.  
		  The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have:  

(a)  
		  Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)  
		  Designed such internal
control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;  

(c)  
		  Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)  
		  Disclosed in this
report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and    

5.   
		  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions);  

(a)  
		  All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

(b)  
		  Any fraud, whether or
not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant
		role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: March 17, 2006  

By:  /s/Stuart I. Greenwald             
  
      Stuart I. Greenwald 
      Treasurer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 ex32-1.htm

Exhibit 32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1   

  FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION  

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In
connection with the Quarterly Report of First Hartford Corporation (the
 Company ) on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending January 31, 2006 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ),  

  I
Neil H. Ellis, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350, as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

1.         The Report fully complies
with the requirements of section 13 (a) or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934; and  

2.         The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.  

Neil H. Ellis           
 
 Neil H. Ellis 
President and Chief
Executive Officer  

Date: March 17, 2006  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 ex32-2.htm

Exhibit 32.2 

EXHIBIT 32.2   

  FIRST HARTFORD CORPORATION  

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In
connection with the Quarterly Report of First Hartford Corporation (the
 Company ) on Form 10-Q the quarter ending January 31, 2006 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I Stuart
I. Greenwald, Treasurer, of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss.
1350, as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

1.       The
report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  

2.       The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.  

Stuart I. Greenwald           
 
 Stuart I. Greenwald 
Treasurer   Chief Financial Officer  

Date: March 17, 2006  

</EX-32.2>

