<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060215_10-Q_edgar_data_25895_0000950134-06-003077_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>187316</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>40816</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>89115</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>13</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-003077.hdr.sgml : 20060215
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060214174832
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-003077
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060101
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060215
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060214

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CROWN CRAFTS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000025895
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, COTTON [2211]
		IRS NUMBER:				580678148
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0331

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07604
		FILM NUMBER:		06618036

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		916 SOUTH BURNSIDE AVENUE
		CITY:			GONZALES
		STATE:			LA
		ZIP:			70737
		BUSINESS PHONE:		225-647-9100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		PO BOX 1028
		CITY:			GONZALES
		STATE:			LA
		ZIP:			70707

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Cfu50GdPIQEgg3uUl0ipGZ0ANKjrmu81+HhJiMituVsEfQi/5pP+xfj2ukLrPETy
 HchgODXxHywU/EwbsPZbhA==

 0000950134-06-003077.txt : 20060215

10-Q
 1
 d32949e10vq.htm
 FORM 10-Q

e10vq 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, DC 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

For the quarterly period ended January 1, 2006

For the transition period from                      to                      

Commission
File No. 1-7604 

CROWN CRAFTS, INC.  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

58-0678148 

(State or other jurisdiction of 
incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 

916 South Burnside Avenue, Gonzales, Louisiana 70737

(Address of principal executive offices)

(225) 647-9100

(Registrant s telephone number, including area code)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes           No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large
accelerated filer
         Accelerated filer          Non-Accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).

Yes           No    

The number of shares of common stock, $0.01 par value, of the registrant outstanding as of
January 1, 2006 was 9,505,937.

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

ITEM 2   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
     ITEM 3   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
      ITEM 4   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
    PART II   OTHER INFORMATION   
     Item 1    Legal Proceedings   
     Item 2    Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds   
     Item 3    Defaults Upon Senior Securities   
     Item 4    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
     Item 5    Other Information   
     Item 6    Exhibits   
    SIGNATURES   
    Index to Exhibits   
   Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification by CEO   
   Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification by CFO   
   Section 1350 Certification by CEO   
   Section 1350 Certification by CFO   

Table of Contents   

CROWN CRAFTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
January 1, 2006 and April 3, 2005 
(UNAUDITED) 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 

1

Table of Contents   

CROWN CRAFTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
For the Three and Nine-Month Periods Ended January 1, 2006 and December 26, 2004 
(UNAUDITED) 
(amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)

See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 

2

Table of Contents   

CROWN CRAFTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the Nine-Month Periods Ended January 1, 2006 and December 26, 2004 
(UNAUDITED) 
(amounts in thousands)

See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 

3

Table of Contents   

CROWN CRAFTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AT AND FOR THE THREE AND NINE-MONTH PERIODS ENDED JANUARY 1, 2006 AND DECEMBER 26, 2004

1.  
       
      Basis of Presentation:  The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America applicable to interim financial information and the rules and regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information
and disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, such interim
consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments necessary to present fairly the
financial position of Crown Crafts, Inc. (the  Company ) as of January 1, 2006 and the results
of its operations and cash flows for the periods presented. Such adjustments include normal
recurring accruals. Operating results for the three and nine-month periods ended January 1,
2006 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending
April 2, 2006. For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and
footnotes thereto included in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 3, 2005
of the Company. 

Revenue Recognition:  Sales are recorded when goods are shipped to customers and are reported
net of allowances for estimated returns and allowances in the consolidated statement of income.
Allowances for returns are estimated based on historical rates. Allowances for returns,
advertising allowances, warehouse allowances and volume rebates are netted against sales. These
allowances are recorded commensurate with sales activity and the cost of such allowances is
netted against sales in reporting the results of operations. Shipping and handling costs, net
of amounts reimbursed by customers, are relatively insignificant and are included in net sales. 

Use of Estimates:  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant
estimates are made with respect to the allowances related to accounts receivable for customer
deductions for returns, allowances and disputes. The Company has a certain amount of
discontinued and irregular raw materials and finished goods which necessitate the
establishment of inventory reserves which are highly subjective. Actual results could differ
from those estimates. 

Segment and Related Information:  The Company operates primarily in one principal segment,
infant and juvenile products. These products consist of infant bedding, bibs and soft goods. 

Impairment of Long-lived Assets, Identifiable Intangibles and Goodwill:  The Company reviews for
impairment long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any asset may not be recoverable. In the
event of impairment, the asset is written down to its fair market value. Assets to be disposed
of are recorded at the lower of net book value or fair market value less cost to sell at the
date management commits to a plan of disposal and are classified as assets held for sale on the
consolidated balance sheet. 

Goodwill, which represents the unamortized excess of purchase price over fair value of net
identifiable assets acquired in business combinations, was amortized through March 31, 2002
using the straight-line method over periods of up to 30 years. The Company discontinued
amortization of goodwill effective April 1, 2002. The Company reviews the carrying value of
goodwill annually and sooner if facts and circumstances suggest that the asset may be impaired.
Impairment of goodwill and write-downs, if any, are measured based on estimates of future cash
flows. Goodwill is stated net of accumulated amortization of $6.3 million at January 1, 2006
and April 3, 2005. The Company performed fair value based impairment tests on its goodwill in
accordance with SFAS 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , and determined that the fair
value exceeded the recorded value at March 29, 2004 and April 4, 2005. 

Provision for Income Taxes:  The provisions for income taxes include all currently payable
federal, state and local taxes that are based upon the Company s taxable income and the change
during the fiscal year in net deferred income tax assets and liabilities. The Company provides
for deferred income taxes based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases
of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates that will be in effect when the differences
are expected to reverse. Deferred tax assets have been reduced by a valuation allowance, if
necessary, in the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence, are not expected
to be realized. Since the Company has federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards, the
future benefits of which are largely offset by a valuation allowance, provisions for income
taxes relate primarily to state and local income taxes. 

4

Table of Contents   

Allowances Against Accounts Receivable:  The Company s allowances against accounts receivable
are primarily contractually agreed upon deductions for items such as advertising and warehouse
allowances and volume rebates. These deductions are recorded throughout the year commensurate
with sales activity. Historically, funding occurred in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year
causing the balance to be highest in the third quarter. However, beginning in fiscal year 2006,
funding of the majority of the Company s allowances will occur on a per-invoice basis. 

The allowances for customer deductions, which are netted against accounts receivable in the
consolidated balance sheets, consist of agreed upon advertising support, markdowns and warehouse
and other allowances. Consistent with the guidance provided in EITF 01-9, all such allowances
are recorded as direct offsets to sales and such costs are accrued commensurate with sales
activities. When a customer requests deductions, the allowances are reduced to reflect such
payments. 

The Company analyzes the components of the allowances for customer deductions monthly and
adjusts the allowances to the appropriate levels. The timing of the customer initiated funding
requests for advertising support can cause the net balance in the allowance account to fluctuate
from period to period. The timing of such funding requests should have no impact on the
consolidated statements of income since such costs are accrued commensurate with sales activity. 

Royalty Payments:  The Company has entered into agreements that provide for royalty payments
based on a percentage of sales with certain minimum guaranteed amounts. These royalty amounts
are accrued based upon historical sales rates adjusted for current sales trends by customers.
Total royalty expenses included in cost of sales amounted to $3.7 million and $3.9 million for
the nine-month periods ended January 1, 2006 and December 26, 2004, respectively. 

Stock-Based Compensation:  The Company accounts for its stock option plans using the intrinsic
value method established by APB Opinion 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , and its
related interpretations. Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized in the Company s
financial statements for its stock-based compensation plans. The Company complies with the
disclosure requirements of SFAS 123,  Accounting for Stock Based-Compensation , as amended by SFAS
148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   Transition and Disclosure , which requires pro
forma disclosure regarding net earnings and earnings per share determined as if the Company had
accounted for employee stock options using the fair value method of that statement. 

In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement 123R,  Share-Based Payment, an Amendment of FASB
Statement No. 123 , which requires all companies to measure compensation cost for all
share-based payments (including employee stock options) at fair value and is effective for
public companies for annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. This Statement eliminates
the ability to account for stock-based compensation transactions using APB 25 and, generally,
requires instead that such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value based method. Had
the Company adopted SFAS 123R in prior periods, the impact of the standard would have
approximated the impact of SFAS No. 123 as described in the disclosure of pro-forma net income
and earnings per share as set forth below. The Company will be required to begin expensing
stock options in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. 

For purposes of the pro forma disclosure, the fair value of each option was estimated as of the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and is amortized to expense ratably
as the option vests. Had compensation costs for the Company s stock option plans been
determined based on the fair value at the grant date, consistent with the method under SFAS 123,
as amended, the Company s net income and income per share would have been as indicated below: 

5

Table of Contents   

2. 
       
      Inventory:  Major classes of inventory were as follows (in thousands): 

3. 
       
      Financing Arrangements  

Factoring Agreement:  The Company assigns the majority of its trade accounts receivable to a
commercial factor. Under the terms of the factoring agreement, the factor remits payments to
the Company on the average due date of each group of invoices assigned. The factor bears credit
losses with respect to assigned accounts receivable that are within approved credit limits. The
Company bears losses resulting from returns, allowances, claims and discounts. 

Notes Payable and Other Credit Facilities : At January 1, 2006 and April 3, 2005, long-term debt
consisted of: 

6

Table of Contents   

The Company s existing credit facilities include the following:

Revolving Credit  of up to $7.5 million, including a $1.5 million sub-limit for letters of
credit. The interest rate is prime plus 1.00% (8.25% at January 1, 2006) for base rate
borrowings and LIBOR plus 2.75% (7.14% at January 1, 2006) for Euro-dollar borrowings. The
maturity date is July 23, 2007. The facility is secured by a first lien on all assets. The
Company made periodic draws against this credit line during the quarter for short-term cash
flow needs but repaid such amounts by the end of the quarter. There was no balance
outstanding at January 1, 2006. The Company had $6.7 million available at January 1, 2006.
As of January 1, 2006, letters of credit of $800,000 were outstanding against the $1.5
million sub-limit for letters of credit associated with the $7.5 million revolving credit
facility.

Senior Notes  of $4.5 million with a fixed interest rate of 10% and provisions for contingent
additional interest existed at April 3, 2005. The entire balance was paid in full in the
first quarter of fiscal year 2006.

Senior Subordinated Notes  of $16 million with a fixed interest rate of 10% plus an additional
1.65% payable by delivery of a promissory note due July 23, 2007 ( PIK Notes ) for which
$1,078,000 has been accrued as of January 1, 2006. The maturity date is July 23, 2007, and
the notes are secured by a second lien on all assets. In addition to principal and interest,
a payment of $8 million is due on the earliest to occur of (i) maturity of the notes, (ii)
prepayment of the notes, or (iii) sale of the Company. The original issue discount of $4.1
million on this non-interest bearing obligation at a market interest rate of 12% is being
amortized over the life of the notes. The remaining balance of $1.4 million is included in
the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 1, 2006.

These credit facilities contain covenants regarding minimum levels of Earnings before
Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ( EBITDA ), maximum total debt to EBITDA, maximum
senior debt to EBITDA, minimum EBITDA to cash interest and minimum shareholders  equity, as well as
limitations on annual capital expenditures and operating lease commitments. The bank facilities
also place restrictions on the amounts the Company may expend on acquisitions and purchases of
treasury stock and currently prohibit the payment of dividends. The Company was in compliance with
these covenants as of January 1, 2006.

The Company also has an equipment lease which expires in May 2007. The balance outstanding
was $25,000 as of January 1, 2006.

Minimum annual maturities are as follows (in thousands):

*Includes $8 million non-interest bearing note issued at an original issue discount
of $4.1 million.

As part of its refinancing in July 2001, the Company issued to its lenders warrants for
non-voting common stock that are convertible into common stock equivalent to 65% of the shares of
the Company on a fully diluted basis at a price of 11.3 cents per share. The warrants are
non-callable and expire six years from their date of issuance. The value of the warrants of $2.4
million using the Black-Scholes option pricing model was credited to additional paid-in capital in
the second quarter of fiscal 2002.

7

Table of Contents   

ITEM 2   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF 
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Company operates indirectly through its subsidiaries, Crown Crafts Infant Products, Inc.,
Hamco, Inc. and Churchill Weavers, Inc., primarily in the Infant and Juvenile Products segments
within the Consumer Products industry. The Company s offices are located in Huntington Beach and
Compton, California; Gonzales, Louisiana; Berea, Kentucky; and Rogers, Arkansas.

The Infant and Juvenile Products segments consist of bedding, bibs, soft goods, Pillow Buddies    and
accessories. The Company s infant and juvenile products are marketed under a variety of
Company-owned trademarks, under trademarks licensed from others, without trademarks as unbranded
merchandise and with customers  private labels. The products are produced primarily by foreign
contract manufacturers, then warehoused and shipped from a facility in Compton, California. The
Company also had a warehouse facility in Gonzales, Louisiana which was closed during the second
quarter of fiscal year 2006. All shipments previously shipped from this warehouse will be made
from Compton, California. Sales are generally made directly to retailers, primarily mass
merchants, large chain stores and specialty stores. The Company also produces hand-woven adult
throws, adult scarves and infant blankets. Sales of these products are generally made to major
department stores, specialty shops, gift stores and designer showrooms.

The infant consumer products industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with a variety of
distributors and manufacturers (both branded and private label), including Kids Line, LLC; Springs
Industries; Dolly Inc.; Co Ca Lo, Inc.; Carters, Inc.; Danara International, Ltd.; Luv n  Care,
Ltd.; The First Years Inc.; Sassy Inc.; Triboro Quilt Manufacturing Inc. and Gerber Childrenswear,
Inc. The Company competes on the basis of quality, design, price, brand name recognition, service
and packaging. The Company s ability to compete depends principally on styling, price, service to
the retailer and continued high regard for the Company s products and trade names.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table contains results of operations data for the three and nine months ended
January 1, 2006 and December 26, 2004 and the dollar and percentage variances among those periods.

8

Table of Contents   

Net Sales:  Sales of bedding, blankets and accessories decreased $1.6 million and $5.1 million
in the third quarter and in the first nine months of fiscal year 2006 respectively as compared to
the same periods in fiscal year 2005. For the nine month period ended January 1, 2006, sales of
licensed products declined $1.7 million as the demand for certain licensed products has decreased.
Despite shipping several new license placements in the third quarter, licensed products declined
$903,000. Private label bedding and blankets volume declined $590,000 in the third quarter and
$1.1 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2006 as a customer increased the number of items
internally sourced. For the nine-month period, Pillow Buddies    sales declined $742,000 as
business for this product has been comparatively weaker in the current year because retail dollars
have not been allocated to the product. The majority of the decline was experienced in the third
quarter. In addition, shipments of Company-branded products have declined $694,000 in the third
quarter and $1.6 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2006, respectively. The decline
in sales is not solely attributable to a decline in volume of units sold. Price erosion of
$520,000 in the third quarter and $1.7 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2006 is included
in the sales decline amounts described above. The price erosion is a result of a decline in prices
due to a change in shipping points on a program from FOB United States to FOB Asia that was agreed
upon by the Company and one of its major customers in order to streamline the distribution process.
The customer pays all costs of importation, shipping and warehousing the merchandise which results
in a decreased selling price per unit. Due to the aforementioned competitive pressures, the
Company is focusing its efforts on aggressively negotiating new licenses, developing house brands
and new product innovations.

Bib and bath sales decreased $1.0 million in the third quarter and $2.3 million in the first nine
months of fiscal year 2006 respectively as compared to the same periods in fiscal year 2005.
Private label bib volume declined $600,000 in the third quarter and $1.3 million in the first nine
months of fiscal 2006 as a customer increased the number of items internally sourced.
Additionally, a customer changed marketing strategy and dropped all licensed products resulting in
a $781,000 decline in bib and bath sales. The majority of this decline was experienced in the
third quarter. The remaining decline in sales is attributable to sales price per unit deflation in
response to market conditions and competition.

Gross Profit:  Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased for both the three- and nine-month
periods of fiscal year 2006 as compared to the same periods of fiscal year 2005 because the Company
has begun shipping merchandise that is benefiting from purchasing from more cost-competitive
suppliers, improved inventory management, the removal of quota and the completion of the Company s
transition out of domestic manufacturing. Included in the nine month cost of sales are retention
bonuses and freight of $88,000 associated with the relocation of the Gonzales, Louisiana
distribution center to Compton, California.

Marketing and Administrative Expenses : Marketing and administrative expenses decreased slightly in
both the three- and nine-month periods of fiscal year 2006 as compared to the same periods of
fiscal year 2005 as a result of reductions in labor, commissions, factoring fees and advertising
expenses. The increase in marketing and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales is a
direct result of the decrease in net sales. In addition, the payment of $70,000 of retention
bonuses related to the relocation of the California finance department to Louisiana is included in
the nine month period.

Interest Expense:  The decrease in interest expense for the three- and nine-month periods of fiscal
year 2006 as compared to fiscal year 2005 is due to a lower average debt balance. The Company had
$23.7 million in total debt at January 1, 2006, compared to $29.4 million at December 26, 2004.
The decrease in debt reflects quarterly payments on the Company s senior notes through March 2005
followed by the payment in full of the senior notes in June 2005, for a total reduction of senior
debt of $7 million over the twelve-month period. Such decrease has been offset by an increase in
debt related to the amortization of the discount discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements
included in this report and the annual issuance of promissory notes related to the deferred payment
of interest on the Company s senior subordinated notes.

FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Net cash provided by operating activities was $6.8 million for the first nine months of fiscal year
2006 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $3.0 million for the first nine
months of fiscal year 2005. The increase in cash provided by operating activities is due to
reduced interest payments, improved accounts receivable collections and extended accounts payable
terms offset by annual royalty and insurance prepayments. Net cash used in investing activities
was $434,000 in the first nine months of fiscal year 2006 and $116,000 in the prior year period.
The increase in cash used for investing activities is due to capital expenditures related to the
conversion of one of the Company s subsidiaries to a software system currently used by other
locations. Net cash used in financing activities was $4.5 million compared to net cash used in
financing activities of $2.8 million in the prior
year period. The increase in cash used in financing activities was due to the payment in full of
the Company s $4.5 million senior notes in June, 2005 offset by a decrease in draws against the
Company s revolving line of credit.

9

Table of Contents   

The Company s ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay the interest on or to
refinance its maturing indebtedness, to fund capital expenditures or to comply with its debt
covenants will depend upon future performance. The Company s future performance is, to a certain
extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other
factors beyond its control. Based upon the current level of operations, the Company believes that
cash flow from operations together with revolving credit availability will be adequate to meet
liquidity needs.

To reduce its exposure to credit losses and to enhance its cash flow, the Company assigns the
majority of its trade accounts receivable to a commercial factor. The Company s factor establishes
customer credit lines and accounts for and collects receivable balances. Under the terms of the
factoring agreement, which expires in July, 2007, the factor remits payments to the Company on the
average due date of each group of invoices assigned. If a customer fails to pay the factor on the
due date, the Company is charged interest at prime minus 0.5% (6.50% at January 1, 2006) until
payment is received. The factor bears credit losses with respect to assigned accounts receivable
that are within approved credit limits. The Company bears losses resulting from returns,
allowances, claims and discounts. The Company s factor at any time may terminate or limit its
approval of shipments to a particular customer. If such a termination occurs, the Company may
either assume the credit risks for shipments after the date of such termination or cease shipments
to such customer.

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act
of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. Such statements are based upon management s current expectations, projections, estimates and
assumptions. Words such as  expects,   believes,   anticipates  and variations of such words and
similar expressions identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve
known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause future results to differ materially from
those suggested by the forward-looking statements. These risks include, among others, general
economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, in the overall level of consumer spending
and in the price of oil, cotton and other raw materials used in the Company s products, changing
competition, changes in the retail environment, the level and pricing of future orders from the
Company s customers, the Company s dependence upon third-party suppliers, including some located in
foreign countries with unstable political situations, the Company s ability to successfully
implement new information technologies, customer acceptance of both new designs and
newly-introduced product lines, actions of competitors that may impact the Company s business,
disruptions to transportation systems or shipping lanes used by the Company or its suppliers, and
the Company s dependence upon licenses from third parties. Reference is also made to the Company s
periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional factors that may impact
the Company s results of operations and financial condition. The Company does not undertake to
update the forward-looking statements contained herein to conform to actual results or changes in
our explanations, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

ITEM 3   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE 
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on debt, changes in commodity
prices, changes in international trade regulations, the concentration of the Company s customers
and the Company s reliance upon licenses. The Company s exposure to interest rate risk relates to
the Company s floating rate debt, of which there was no balance outstanding at January 1, 2006 or
April 3, 2005. The Company s exposure to commodity price risk primarily relates to changes in the
price of cotton and oil, which are the principal raw materials used in a substantial number of the
Company s products. Also, changes in import quantity allotments can materially impact the
availability of the Company s products and the prices at which those products can be purchased by
the Company for resale. Additionally, the Company s top three customers represent 78% of gross
sales, and 43% of the Company s gross sales is of licensed products. The Company could be
materially impacted by the loss of one or more of these customers or licenses.

ITEM 4   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

The Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness
of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )), as of the
end of the period covered by this report, as required by paragraph (b) of Rules 13a-15 or

10

Table of Contents   

15d-15 of the Exchange Act. Based on such evaluation, such officers have concluded that, as of the end of
the period covered by this report, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

During the quarter ended January 1, 2006, there was not any change in the Company s internal
control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph
(d) of Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 of the Exchange Act that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company s control over financial reporting.

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1    Legal Proceedings

From time to time, the Company is involved in various legal proceedings relating to claims arising
in the ordinary course of its business. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is a party
to any such legal proceeding the outcome of which, individually or in the aggregate, is expected to
have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.

Item 2    Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

None

Item 3    Defaults Upon Senior Securities

None

Item 4    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None

Item 5    Other Information

None

Item 6    Exhibits

11

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

CROWN CRAFTS, INC.

Date: February 15, 2006

/s/ Amy Vidrine Samson 

AMY VIDRINE SAMSON 

Chief Financial Officer 

(duly authorized signatory and 

Principal Financial and Accounting 

Officer) 

12

Table of Contents   

Index to Exhibits 

13

<EX-31.1>
 2
 d32949exv31w1.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION BY CEO

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1  

CERTIFICATION

I, E. Randall Chestnut, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended January 1, 2006 of
Crown Crafts, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and we have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
function): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Date: February 15, 2006

/s/ E. Randall Chestnut

E. Randall Chestnut  

Chairman of the Board, President   Chief 
Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 d32949exv31w2.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION BY CFO

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2  

CERTIFICATION

I, Amy Vidrine Samson, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended January 1, 2006 of
Crown Crafts, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and we have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
function): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Date: February 15, 2006

/s/ Amy Vidrine Samson

Amy Vidrine Samson  

Vice President   Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 d32949exv32w1.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION BY CEO

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1  

SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION

I, E. Randall Chestnut, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Crown
Crafts, Inc. (the  Company ), do hereby certify, in accordance with 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:

1. 
       
     The Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the Company for the period ending January 1, 2006 (the
 Periodic Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

2. 
       
     The information contained in the Periodic Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Dated: February 15, 2006

/s/ E. Randall Chestnut

E. Randall Chestnut, Chairman of the Board,  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 d32949exv32w2.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION BY CFO

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2  

SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION

I, Amy Vidrine Samson, Chief Financial Officer of Crown Crafts, Inc. (the  Company ), do hereby
certify, in accordance with 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:

1. 
       
     The Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the Company for the period ending January 1, 2006 (the
 Periodic Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

2. 
       
     The information contained in the Periodic Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Dated: February 15, 2006

/s/ Amy Vidrine Samson

Amy Vidrine Samson, Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32.2>

