<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060316_10-Q_edgar_data_1045014_0000950153-06-000699_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>199889</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>70306</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>81168</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>13</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950153-06-000699.hdr.sgml : 20060316
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060316170255
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950153-06-000699
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060316
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060316

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GAMETECH INTERNATIONAL INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001045014
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-MISCELLANEOUS AMUSEMENT & RECREATION [7990]
		IRS NUMBER:				330612983
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-23401
		FILM NUMBER:		06692771

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2209 W 1ST ST STE 113-114
		CITY:			TEMPE
		STATE:			AZ
		ZIP:			85281
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6028041101

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2209 W 1ST STREET SUITE 113 114
		CITY:			TEMPE
		STATE:			AZ
		ZIP:			85281

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GdyCm9YTeJPYRmHyhvc+ZURpXIio+3apG4Ehd+XxGmws2RpvgRt8hBZ1weAPeGRY
 +pkY4cbcG+jupv87DbnrPA==

 0000950153-06-000699.txt : 20060316

10-Q
 1
 p72021e10vq.htm
 10-Q

e10vq 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

(Mark One) 

FOR THE QUARTERLY PERIOD ENDED JANUARY 31, 2006 

OR 

FOR
THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM
                       TO                       

Commission File Number 000-23401 

GAMETECH INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE 

33-0612983  

(State or other jurisdiction 
of incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 

900 SANDHILL ROAD, RENO, NEVADA 
89521  
(Address of principal executive offices) 
(Zip code)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (775) 850-6000

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large
accelerated filer     
      Accelerated
filer     
      Non-accelerated filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act). Yes      No     

On March 8, 2006, the registrant had 11,966,057 outstanding shares of its Common Stock, par
value $0.001 per share.

GAMETECH INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
QUARTERLY REPORT ON FORM 10 Q 
FOR THE QUARTERLY PERIOD ENDED JANUARY 31, 2006 
INDEX 

Page 

No. 

Part I.  
       
      Financial Information:  

Item 1.

Financial Statements (Unaudited)  

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
January 31, 2006 (Unaudited) and October 31, 2005

3 

Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the
Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 and 2005

4 

Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 and 2005

5 

Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements

6 

Item 2.

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

11 

Item 3.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

17 

Item 4.

Controls and Procedures

17 

Part II.  
       
      Other Information:  

Item 1.

Legal Proceedings

18 

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

18 

Item 2.

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

18 

Item 3.

Defaults Upon Senior Securities

19 

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

19 

Item 5.

Other Information

19 

Item 6.

Exhibits

19 

Signatures  

20 

Exhibit 31.1    
     Exhibit 31.2    
     Exhibit 32.1    
     Exhibit 32.2    

2

Table of Contents   

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED). 

GAMETECH
INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

(In thousands, except share and per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial
statements.

3

Table of Contents   

GAMETECH INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

(In thousands, except per share amounts) 
(Unaudited) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial
statements.

4

Table of Contents   

GAMETECH
INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

(Unaudited, in thousands) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial
statements.

5

Table of Contents   

GAMETECH
INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(UNAUDITED) 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

NOTE A. BASIS OF PRESENTATION 

The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures
as of January 31, 2006 have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles applicable to interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and
Rule10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes
required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. In
our opinion, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for
a fair presentation of our financial position and interim results have been included. Operating
results for the three-month period ended January 31, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of the
results that may be expected for the current fiscal year or any other period.

The balance sheet at October 31, 2005 has been derived from the audited financial statements
at that date but does not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. These condensed unaudited
consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and related notes, as well as other information included in our Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005 and any other filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

USE OF ESTIMATES 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Allowance for
doubtful accounts, obsolescence, impairment of goodwill, and loss contingencies are significant
estimates made by us. Actual results could ultimately differ from those estimates.

NOTE B. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

REVENUE RECOGNITION 

Revenue is recognized for bingo terminals and bingo systems installed as a single element
placed in bingo halls under contracts based on (1) a fixed fee per use; (2) a fixed weekly fee per
terminal; or (3) a percentage of the revenue generated by each terminal. Our revenue recognition is
a key component of our results of operations, and determines the timing of certain expenses, such
as commissions. We recognize revenue in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States when all of the following factors exist: (a) evidence of an arrangement with the
customer; (b) play or availability of the bingo terminals; (c) a fixed or determinable fee; and (d)
collectibility is reasonably assured. We exercise judgment in assessing the credit worthiness of
our customers and therefore in our determination of whether collectibility is reasonably assured.
Should changes in conditions cause us to determine these criteria are not met for future
transactions, revenue recognized for future reporting periods could be adversely affected.

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS 

Accounts receivable are recorded when revenue is recognized in accordance with our revenue
recognition policy and represent claims against third parties that will be settled in cash. The
carrying value of our receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, represents our estimated
net realizable value.

We estimate the possible losses resulting from non-payment of outstanding accounts receivable.
Our customer base consists primarily of entities operating in charitable, Native American, and
commercial bingo halls located throughout the United States. In some jurisdictions, the billing and
collection function is performed as part of a distributor relationship, and in those instances, we
maintain allowances for possible losses resulting from non-payment by both the customer and
distributor. We perform ongoing evaluations of our customers and distributors for credit
worthiness, economic trends, changes in our customer payment terms, and historical collection
experience when evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for doubtful accounts. We also reserve a
percentage of our accounts receivable based on aging category. In determining these percentages, we review historical
write-offs of our receivables, payment trends, and other available information. While such
estimates have been within our expectations and the provisions established, a change in financial
condition of specific customers or in overall trends experienced may result in future adjustments
of our estimates of recoverability of our receivables.

6

Table of Contents   

BINGO EQUIPMENT, FURNITURE AND OTHER EQUIPMENT 

Bingo equipment includes portable and fixed-base player terminals as well as file servers,
caller units, point-of-sale units, and other support equipment. Bingo equipment, furniture, and
other equipment are stated at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful lives are as follows:

Bingo equipment

3-5 years 

Office furniture and equipment

3-7 years 

Leasehold improvements

10 years 

We provide reserves for excess or obsolete bingo terminals on hand not expected to be used.
The reserves are based upon several factors, including estimated forecast of bingo terminal demand
for placement into halls. The estimates of future bingo terminal demand may prove to be inaccurate,
in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for excess or obsolete
bingo terminals. Although we attempt to assure the accuracy of these estimated forecasts, any
significant unanticipated changes in demand or technological developments could have a significant
impact on the value of bingo terminals, results of operations, and financial condition.

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT CAPITALIZATION 

We capitalize costs related to the development of certain software products that meet the
criteria of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 86    Accounting for the Costs
of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed . SFAS No. 86 provides for the
capitalization of computer software that is to be used as an integral part of a product or process
to be sold or leased, after technological feasibility has been established for the software and all
research and development activities for the other components of the product or process have been
completed. We are capitalizing qualified costs of software developed for new products or for
significant enhancements to existing products. We cease capitalizing costs when the product is
available for general release to our customers. We amortize the costs on a straight-line method
over the estimated economic life of the product beginning when the product becomes available for
general release.

The achievement of technological feasibility and the estimate of the product s economic life
require judgment. Any changes in key assumptions, market conditions, or other circumstances could
result in an impairment of the capitalized asset and a charge to our operating results.

GOODWILL 

We are required to perform an annual goodwill impairment review, and depending upon the
results of that measurement, the recorded goodwill may be written down and charged to income from
operations when its carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value. Goodwill is reviewed for
possible impairment annually, or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable, such as a significant adverse change in
legal factors or in the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator,
unanticipated competition, or a loss of key personnel.

LONG-LIVED ASSETS 

We have adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets . SFAS No. 144 requires impairment losses to be recognized for long-lived assets
and identifiable intangibles, other than goodwill, used in operations when indicators of impairment
are present and the estimated undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the assets 
carrying amount. The impairment loss is measured by comparing the fair value of the asset to its
carrying amount.

LEGAL CONTINGENCIES 

We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings (see Note D. Legal
Proceedings). Periodically, we review the status of each significant matter and assess the potential financial
exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the
amount can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is
required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure
is reasonably estimable.

7

Table of Contents   

Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best
information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the
potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation and may revise these estimates.
Such revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the
results of operations and financial condition.

PRO FORMA STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION INFORMATION 

Prior to November 1, 2005, we accounted for employee stock transactions in accordance with
Accounting Principle Board, APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.  We
have adopted the pro forma disclosure requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. 

Effective November 1, 2005, we adopted FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
( SFAS ) No. 123(R),  Share Based Payment . This statement is a revision of SFAS No. 123, and
supercedes APB Opinion No. 25, and its related implementation guidance. SFAS No. 123(R) addresses
all forms of share-based payment awards including shares issued under employer stock purchase
plans, stock options, restricted stock, and stock appreciation rights. Under SFAS No. 123(R),
share-based payment awards result in a cost that will be measured at fair value on the awards 
grant date. In the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2005, our Board of Directors approved the
acceleration of the vesting of all unvested stock options awarded under our 1997 Incentive Stock
Plan. As a result, all options outstanding at October 31, 2005 were fully vested and no
compensation cost for such options will be recognized in any future periods. In addition, we had
no share-based payment awards in the first quarter of fiscal of 2006, so consequently there was no
related expense recorded during the period.

For the three months ended January 31, 2005, we had applied APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees.  As required under SFAS No.148,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation-Transition and Disclosure,  the following table presents our pro forma information.

(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

Three Months Ended 

January 31, 

2005 

Net income, as reported

$ 
     1 

Stock-based employee compensation expense included
in reported net income, net of related tax benefits

29 

Stock-based employee compensation expense determined
under fair value method for all awards, net of
related tax effects

(63 
     ) 

Pro forma net (loss)

$ 
     (33 
     ) 

Net income (loss) per share:

Basic:

As reported

$ 
     0.00 

Pro forma

$ 
     (0.00 
     ) 

Diluted:

As reported

$ 
     0.00 

Pro forma

$ 
     (0.00 
     ) 

8

Table of Contents   

NOTE C. NET INCOME PER SHARE 

Basic net income per share is computed by dividing reported net income by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding each period.

Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing the weighted average number of common
shares and other common equivalent shares outstanding during each period. Diluted common shares
are calculated in accordance with the treasury stock method, which treats the proceeds from the
exercise of all warrants and options as used to reacquire stock at market value.

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

NOTE D. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

On March 22, 2001, we filed  GameTech International, Inc. v. Trend Gaming Systems, LLC , CIV
01-0540 PHX LOA, a claim in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona, seeking a
declaratory judgment that we are not in material breach of our November 1, 1999 Distribution
Agreement with Trend Gaming Systems, LLC ( Trend ), and seeking damages for past due payments and
wrongful withholdings by Trend. Trend counterclaimed, alleging that its payments were in
compliance with its contractual obligations. Trend also contended that we were in breach of
certain of our contractual obligations to Trend, including that we had wrongfully terminated Trend.
On December 16, 2002, the court entered at our request an order enjoining Trend from using
approximately $540,000 in funds it had collected on our behalf, pending a trial on our ownership
interest in those funds. The money was placed in two bank accounts/constructive trusts, subject to
the court s control. The sums in those accounts now total approximately $600,000. In addition,
collections of accounts receivable by Trend, if any, are also being placed in that account, pending
the resolution of the case. We have posted a $450,000 deposit with the court as a bond, which is
presented as restricted cash on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The accounts receivable
from Trend were fully reserved as of January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005. Trial in this matter
commenced October 4, 2004. On November 1, 2004, the jury returned a verdict in favor of Trend
against us in the amount of $3.5 million in compensatory damages. The jury also awarded us
$735,000 in compensatory damages against Trend for funds Trend collected on our behalf but failed
to remit to us. The court denied all of our post-trial motions, except that it maintained the
injunction imposing a constructive trust, pending resolution of the issues on appeal. The court
setoff the jury awards and entered an amended judgment for Trend on May 12, 2005, in the amount of
$2.8 million, plus interest on that sum at the rate of 3.31% per annum beginning March 30, 2005.
We appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on April 8, 2005. We
posted a supersedeas bond on April 8, 2005 in the court-appointed amount of $3.4 million, which
bond stays any action by Trend to collect on the judgment, pending appeal. Trend initially sought
an award of $810,000 in legal fees and $26,000 in expenses and costs. In an amended request, Trend
sought an award of $1.4 million in legal fees and $61,000 in expenses and costs. The court awarded
Trend $909,000 in legal fees, expenses and costs plus interest of 3.77% per annum beginning August
5, 2005. We appealed the fee award to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on
August 5, 2005. We posted an additional supersedeas bond with the court on August 18, 2005 in the amount of $1.1 million,
thereby staying any action by Trend to collect the fees, pending appeal. Any cash used in the
collateralization of the bonds is accounted for as restricted short-term investments on our
consolidated balance sheets. We cannot provide assurance that we will succeed in setting the
judgments aside on appeals. Currently, the court has not set a hearing date for the appeal. For
the year ended October 31, 2004, we recorded an estimated loss contingency in the Trend litigation
of $3.6 million, which was estimated based on the amounts of the judgment described above. We
recorded an additional loss contingency of $72,000 to account for the increased award for Trend
for legal fees and expenses and costs and a loss contingency of $24,000 was recorded to account for
interest accrued on the Trend judgment, both in fiscal 2005. In addition, a loss contingency of
$32,000 was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 to account for interest accrued on the
Trend judgment. We feel the amount recorded as of January 31, 2006 is appropriate.

9

Table of Contents   

We are involved in various other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our
business. We do not believe that any of those proceedings will have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial position, or results of operations.

NOTE E. CREDIT AGREEMENT 

Effective April 2, 2005, we renewed our revolving line-of-credit agreement with a bank. The
maximum amount available under the terms of the agreement is $2.5 million. Borrowings bear
interest based on the bank s prime rate or LIBOR plus 2.0%, at our option. Interest is payable
monthly and the agreement expires on April 2, 2006. We can give no assurance that the credit
agreement will be renewed. Our obligations under the agreement are secured by substantially all of
our assets. The agreement contains certain restrictive covenants, which, among other things,
require that specified financial balances and ratios be maintained, requires profitability to be
maintained on a quarterly basis, and restricts the incurrence of additional indebtedness and
payment of dividends. In addition, our aggregate of cash and readily marketable securities must at
all times exceed 1.5 multiplied by the amount of the line-of-credit. At January 31, 2006, there
was no outstanding balance under the line-of-credit and we were in compliance with all terms and
covenants of the agreement.

NOTE F. INCOME TAXES 

We recorded our income tax provision at an effective rate of 39.0% for the three-months ended
January 31, 2006, compared with 46.9% for the three-months ended January 31, 2005. The actual
effective tax rate is different from the expected federal rate of 34%, reflecting certain permanent
differences between financial accounting and tax accounting, timing differences related to
depreciation, and state and foreign tax provisions.

NOTE G. STOCK COMPENSATION 

In December 2004, the vesting period for 20,000 employee stock options to purchase shares of
the Company s common stock was accelerated and became fully vested. As a result of this stock
option modification, the Company recorded compensation expense of $29,000 for the quarter ended
January 2005. The stock compensation expense was calculated using the intrinsic value method,
which compares the common stock option exercise price to the fair market value of the underlying
common stock on the date of the modification.

In January 2005, the term for 67,000 options of a former employee to purchase shares of the
Company s common stock was extended for an additional six months and vesting was accelerated as the
result of an executed consulting agreement. As a result of this six-month consulting agreement to
assist the Company in various legal matters and resulting stock option modification, the Company
recorded compensation expense of $64,000 for the quarter ended January 2005. The stock options are
subject to measurement under Financial Accounting Standards 123 (SFAS 123) and Emerging Issues Task
Force Issue No. 96-18 (EITF 96-18). SFAS 123 set forth the requirements with respect to accounting
for transactions involving a company s stock that is issued in exchange for goods or services.
According to SFAS 123, these transactions should be measured at the fair value of the equity
issued. In accordance with EITF 96-18, compensation expense is measured based on the fair value
of the option at the date the performance commitment is reached. The Company has determined that
the performance commitment was reached upon the effective date of the consulting agreement that
occurred January 2, 2005. The fair value of the stock options was measured at that date based on
the Black-Scholes model using a SFAS 123 approach. Per EITF 96-18, a recognized expense should not
be reversed even if the exercise expires unexercised. The stock compensation expense is recorded
in sales and marketing expense in the consolidated statement of operations.

10

Table of Contents   

NOTE H. RESTRICTED SHORT TERM INVESTMENT 

Restricted short-term investments at January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005 consisted of bank
certificates of deposit used to collateralize irrevocable standby letters of credit pledged to the
court to secure certain previous judgments against us pending results of our appeals. The
certificates of deposit are in the amounts of $3.5 million and $1.1 million together with accrued
interest, include interest rates of 2.96% and 3.35%, respectively and mature April 6, 2006 and
August 10, 2006, respectively. (See Note D. Legal Proceedings.)

ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this report, as
well as our audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2005
contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.

This document includes various  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of Section 27A
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, which represent our expectations or beliefs concerning future events. Statements
containing expressions, such as  believes,   anticipates,  or  expects,  used in our press releases
and periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC, are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.
Although we believe our expectations are based upon reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our
knowledge of our business and operations, there can be no assurances that actual results
will not differ materially from expected results. We caution that these and similar statements
included in this report are further qualified by important factors that could cause actual results
to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Such factors include those
discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005. Readers are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the
date thereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to such forward-looking
statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof.

OVERVIEW 

We design, develop, and market interactive electronic player terminals and bingo systems. We
currently market portable systems that can be played anywhere within a bingo hall and fixed-base
systems with touchscreen-activated monitors. For our three most recent fiscal years ended October
31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, our portable terminals generated approximately 77%, 74%, and 73% of our
revenue, respectively, while our fixed-base terminals generated the balance of our revenue during
those same years. For the three-months ended January 31, 2006, portable systems accounted for 78%
of our revenue and fixed-base systems accounted for 22% of our revenue. As of January 31, 2006, we
had systems in service in 38 states and in five foreign countries.

We generate revenue by placing electronic player terminals and bingo systems in bingo halls
under contracts based on (1) a fixed fee per use; (2) a fixed weekly fee per terminal; or (3) a
percentage of the revenue generated by each terminal. Revenue growth is affected by player
acceptance of electronic bingo as an addition or an alternative to paper bingo, our ability to
expand operations into new markets and our ability to increase our market share, and regulatory
acceptance within jurisdictions. Fixed-base bingo terminals generate greater revenue per terminal
than portable bingo terminals, but also require a greater initial capital investment.

We typically install our electronic player terminals and bingo systems at no charge to our
customers, and we capitalize the costs. We record depreciation of bingo equipment over a three- and
five-year estimated useful life using the straight-line method of depreciation.

Our expenses consist primarily of (a) cost of revenue, consisting of expenses associated with
technical and operational support of the bingo systems within bingo halls, depreciation and
amortization of bingo terminals, repair, refurbishment, and disposals of bingo terminals and
related support equipment, and excess or obsolescence reserve; (b) general and administrative
expenses, consisting of activities associated with management of our company and related support,
which includes finance and accounting, legal, compliance, information systems, human resources, and
accounts receivable reserve; (c) sales and marketing, consisting primarily of commissions paid to
distributors for promoting and supporting our products and an internal sales force with a focus
upon generating new customers and upgrades for existing customers; and (d) research and
development, consisting of company-sponsored research and development activities to provide players
with new or enhanced products on which to play electronic bingo.

11

Table of Contents   

During the three-month period ended January 31, 2006, capital expenditures approximated $2.5
million, primarily related to bingo systems and related support equipment. This investment included
primarily an increase in the number of installed Traveler TM  terminals.

APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
discusses our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet dates and
reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we
evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts,
bingo terminal depreciation, goodwill impairment, and contingencies and litigation. We base our
estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about
the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Changes in internal or external conditions could cause actual results to differ from our
estimates and could cause future reporting periods to be adversely affected. If changes in
conditions lead us to believe that our criteria for revenue recognition are not met for future
transactions, revenue recognized for future reporting periods could be significantly less. Changes
in financial conditions of specific customers or in overall collection trends may result in
adjustments to our reserves for doubtful accounts. Changes in technology, our competitors 
offerings, market conditions, or other factors affecting our business prospects could result in an
increase in reserves for bingo terminal obsolescence or in an impairment to the carrying value of
goodwill, other intangible assets or the capitalized cost of developed software. As additional
information becomes available and we reassess our potential liability related to litigation or
other contingencies, we may revise our estimates and such revisions could have an adverse effect on
our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.

Revenue Recognition  

Revenue is recognized for bingo terminals and bingo systems installed as a single element
placed in bingo halls under contracts based on (1) a fixed fee per use; (2) a fixed weekly fee per
terminal; or (3) a percentage of the revenue generated by each terminal. Our revenue recognition is
a key component of our results of operations, and determines the timing of certain expenses, such
as commissions. We recognize revenue in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles when all of the following factors exist: (a) evidence of an arrangement with the
customer; (b) play or availability of the bingo terminals; (c) a fixed or determinable fee; and (d)
collectibility is reasonably assured. We exercise judgment in assessing the credit worthiness of
our customers and therefore in our determination of whether collectibility is reasonably assured.
Should changes in conditions cause us to determine these criteria are not met for future
transactions, revenue recognized for future reporting periods could be adversely affected.

Bingo Equipment, Furniture, and Other Equipment  

Bingo equipment includes portable and fixed-base player terminals as well as file servers,
caller units, point-of-sale units, and other support equipment. Bingo equipment, furniture, and
other equipment are stated at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful lives are as follows:

Bingo equipment

3-5 years 

Office furniture and equipment

3-7 years 

Leasehold improvements

10 years 

We provide reserves for excess or obsolete bingo terminals on hand not expected to be used.
The reserves are based upon several factors, including estimated forecast of bingo terminal demand
for placement into halls. The estimates of future bingo terminal demand may prove to be inaccurate,
in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for excess or obsolete
bingo terminals. Although we attempt to assure the accuracy of our estimated forecasts, any
significant unanticipated changes in demand or technological developments could have a significant
impact on the value of bingo terminals, results of operations, and financial condition.

12

Table of Contents   

Software Development Capitalization  

We capitalize costs related to the development of certain software products that meet the
criteria of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 86    Accounting for the Costs
of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed . SFAS No. 86 provides for the
capitalization of computer software that is to be used as an integral part of a product or process
to be sold or leased, after technological feasibility has been established for the software and all
research and development activities for the other components of the product or process have been
completed. We are capitalizing qualified costs of software developed for new products or for
significant enhancements to existing products. We cease capitalizing costs when the product is
available for general release to our customers. We amortize the costs on a straight-line method
over the estimated economic life of the product beginning when the product becomes available for
general release.

The achievement of technological feasibility and the estimate of a product s economic life
require judgment. Any changes in key assumptions, market conditions, or other circumstances could
result in an impairment of the capitalized asset and a charge to our operating results.

Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  

Our receivables are recorded when revenue is recognized in accordance with our revenue
recognition policy and represent claims against third parties that may be settled in cash. The
carrying value of our receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts represents their
estimated net realizable value.

We have established an allowance for uncollectible accounts based primarily on management s
evaluation of the customer s financial condition, past collection history and aging of accounts
receivable balances. Our customer base consists primarily of entities operating in charitable,
Native American, and commercial bingo halls located throughout the United States. In some
jurisdictions, the billing and collection function is performed by a distributor as part of a
distributor relationship, and in those instances, we maintain allowances for possible losses
resulting from non-payment by both the customer and distributor. We perform ongoing evaluations of
customers and distributors for credit worthiness, economic trends, changes in customer payment
terms, and historical collection experience when evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for
doubtful accounts. We also reserve a percentage of accounts receivable based on aging categories.
In determining these percentages, we review historical write-offs of receivables, payment trends,
and other available information. While such estimates have been within our expectations and the
provisions established, a change in the financial condition of specific customers or in overall
trends experienced may result in future adjustments of estimates of collectibility of our
receivables.

Goodwill  

We are required to perform an annual goodwill impairment review, and depending upon the
results of that measurement, the recorded goodwill may be written down and charged to income from
operations when its carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value. Goodwill is reviewed for
possible impairment annually, or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable, such as a significant adverse change in
legal factors or in the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator,
unanticipated competition, or a loss of key personnel.

Long-Lived Assets  

We have adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets . SFAS No. 144 requires impairment losses to be recognized for long-lived assets
and identifiable intangibles, other than goodwill, used in operations when indicators of impairment
are present and the estimated undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the assets 
carrying amount. The impairment loss is measured by comparing the fair value of the asset to its
carrying amount.

Legal Contingencies  

We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. Periodically, we review
the status of each significant matter and assesses the potential financial exposure. If the
potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be
estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both
the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably
estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best
information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassesses the
potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise these estimates. Such revisions
in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our results of
operations, and financial condition.

13

Table of Contents   

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following table sets forth certain selected unaudited condensed consolidated financial
data for the periods indicated in thousands of dollars and as a percentage of net revenue:

Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2006 increased to $1.3 million
from a loss of $33,000 from the comparable period in 2005. The increase in income from operations
in the first quarter ended January 31, 2006 is attributable to an increase in gross profit as a
percentage of net revenue resulting from reductions in personnel, reduced unit depreciation as more
of our units became fully depreciated, and savings in refurbishments. In addition, savings were
realized in general and administrative expenses due to reduced outside legal fees and sales and marketing
due to the non-reoccurrence in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 of severances incurred in the first
quarter of fiscal 2005 and a decrease in distributor commissions.

Net income for the three-month period ended January 31, 2006 increased to $839,000 from $1,000
in the comparable period in 2005. Overall savings were realized in employee and administrative
related costs, unit depreciation, refurbishment, outside legal fees and other operating costs.

Net revenue 

Net revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2006 remained flat at $12.3 million in
relation to the comparable quarter in 2005. Decreases in net revenue for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 due to unfavorable legislative changes in the state of Oklahoma was offset by
increased net revenue in other states, increased international business, and placement of our
Traveler terminals.

Cost of Revenue 

Total cost of revenue decreased 15.0% to $4.7 million, or 37.7% of net revenue in the three
months ended January 31, 2006 from $5.5 million, or 44.4% of net revenue, for the comparable
quarter in 2005. Cost reductions were effected by reductions in service and operations personnel and increased efficiencies in
our refurbishments. Depreciation and amortization for the three-month period ended January 31,
2006 decreased with the comparable prior year period as more of our older units are becoming fully
depreciated. Depreciation decreased despite the depreciation associated with our continued
investment in Traveler terminals.

14

Table of Contents   

Gross Profit 

Gross profit increased 12.4% to $7.7 million, or 62.3% of net revenue in the three months
ended January 31, 2006 from $6.9 million, or 55.6% of net revenue for the comparable quarter in
2005. Gross profit increased in both absolute dollars and margins for the three-month period ended
January 31, 2006 compared to comparable prior year period.

Operating Expenses 

Total operating expenses decreased 6.7% to $6.4 million, or 52.0% of net revenue in the three
months ended January 31, 2006 from $6.9 million, or 55.9% of net revenue, for the comparable
quarter in 2005. Operating expenses include sales and marketing, including distributor
commissions, research and development, general and administrative and loss contingencies.

General and administrative costs decreased 4.6% to $2.6 million, or 21.2% of net revenue, in
the three months ended January 31, 2006 from $2.7 million, or 22.3% of net revenue, for the
comparable quarter in 2005. The decrease is primarily due to outside legal expenses for the three
months ended January 31, 2006 decreasing by $274,000 from the comparable period in fiscal 2005 as a
result of the resolution of some of our legal issues. This decrease in outside legal expenses was
partially offset by increases in expenses associated with the process to acquire our gaming license
in Nevada and an increase in our bad debt expense.

Sales and marketing expenses decreased 11.1% to $2.7 million, or 22.0% of net revenue, in the
three months ended January 31, 2006 from $3.1 million or 24.8% of net revenue for the comparable
quarter in 2005. The decrease resulted primarily from reductions in employee severance related
costs and in distributor commissions which decreased $83,000 in the quarter to $1.8 million, or
14.3% of revenue.

Research and development expenses decreased 2.7% to $1.1 million, or 8.5% of net revenue, in
the three months ended January 31, 2006 from $1.1 million, or 8.8% of net revenue, for the
comparable quarter in 2005. While expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 stayed relatively
flat when compared to the comparable quarter of fiscal 2005, fiscal 2006 included approximately
$169,000 of non-recurring employee severance related costs. During the first quarter of fiscal
2006, approximately $88,000 of payroll costs related to research and development and quality
assurance were capitalized under FASB Statement No. 86. For the comparable period in 2005,
$148,000 of payroll costs were capitalized.

Loss contingencies totaled $32,000 or 0.3% of net revenue in the three months ended January
31, 2006. There was no loss contingency recorded for the comparable quarter in 2005. Loss
contingencies for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 consisted of interest accrued on a legal
judgement.

Provision for Income Taxes 

Provision for income taxes approximated $536,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2006
compared with $1,000 for the comparable quarter in 2005. The actual effective tax rate is
different from the expected federal rate of 34%, reflecting certain permanent differences between
financial accounting and tax accounting, timing differences related to depreciation, and state and
foreign tax provisions.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

We have funded our operations to date primarily through cash from operations and other capital
sources. This capital is used for operations, research and development, and capital expenditures
of bingo equipment and associated support equipment and software. As of January 31, 2006 and
October 31, 2005, we had a working capital balance of $11.7 million and $10.8 million,
respectively. As of January 31, 2006, our principal sources of liquidity included cash and
short-term investments of $8.1 million, less the related restrictive covenants, and the revolving
credit facility of $2.5 million, which had no borrowed balance as of that date. In April 2005, we
renewed our revolving line-of-credit through April 2, 2006 with Wells Fargo, N.A. for a
line-of-credit of $2.5 million with interest based on the bank s prime rate or, at our option,
LIBOR plus 2.0%. The agreement contains certain restrictive covenants, which, among other things,
require that specified financial balances and ratios be maintained, quarterly profitability be maintained, and include restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and
payment of dividends. In addition, our aggregate of cash and readily marketable securities must at
all times exceed 1.5 multiplied by the amount of the line-of-credit. We were in
compliance with the terms and covenants of the revolving credit facility as of January 31, 2006.
Current assets and current liabilities include a restricted short-term investment of $4.6 million
and an accrued liability of $3.8 million in connection with litigation settlements.

15

Table of Contents   

Operating activities provided $3.8 million of cash for the three-month period ended January
31, 2006 compared with $1.8 million for the three-month period ended January 31, 2005. The $3.8
million consisted primarily of our net income of $839,000 adjusted by $2.6 million from
depreciation, amortization, obsolescence provisions, and loss on disposal of bingo terminals and
related equipment provisions and $287,000 provided by net changes in other operating assets and
liabilities. During the three-month period ended January 31, 2005, the $1.8 million consisted
primarily of our net income of $1,000 adjusted by $3.3 million from depreciation, amortization,
and obsolescence provisions, less a net use of funds of $1.6 million from changes in other
operating assets and liabilities.

We used approximately $2.7 million of cash in investing activities for the three-month period
ended January 31, 2006 and January 31, 2005. The $2.7 million for the first quarter of 2006
consisted of $2.5 million of capital expenditures primarily all of which was expended on bingo
terminals and associated support equipment and the purchase and development of software and other
intangible assets of $113,000. During the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the $2.7 million consisted
of $2.5 million of capital expenditures primarily all of which was expended on bingo terminals and
associated support equipment and the purchase and development of software and other intangible
assets of $228,000.

Financing activities provided $130,000 of net cash for the three-month period ended January
31, 2006 compared with the use of funds of $249,000 for the three-month period ended January 31,
2005. The $130,000 provided for the current three-month period ended January 31, 2006 was from the
proceeds of stock option exercises. The $249,000 used for the prior three-month period ended
January 31, 2005 was primarily for cash dividends of $355,000, partially offset with proceeds from
stock option exercises of $106,000.

Our revolving credit facility agreement restricts our ability to incur additional
indebtedness. In addition, our low stock price and trading volume could further restrict our
ability to obtain capital from other sources at favorable costs, if at all. The restrictions and
limitations of available capital other than from cash flow from operations could curtail our
business strategy of expansion and development, and could result in a curtailment of our capital
expenditures for bingo devices, and related equipment. In the event we are unable to raise
additional working capital, further measures could be necessary, including the delay or reduction
of our operations, research and development and other activities. Certain of such measures may
require third-party consent or approvals, including the financial institution under the revolving
credit facility, certain regulatory bodies, and others, and there are no assurances such consent or
approvals could be obtained.

We believe that cash flows from operations and cash, cash equivalents, and short-term
investments will be sufficient to support our operations, provide for budgeted capital
expenditures, and meet liquidity requirements through the remainder of fiscal 2006. Our long-term
liquidity requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate at which we expand our
business and whether we do so internally or through acquisition. In addition, we may pursue
strategic opportunities that could require us to fund our portion of operating expenses of such
ventures and may require us to advance additional amounts should any partners in such ventures be
unable to meet unanticipated capital requirements or similar funding events. To the extent that
the funds generated from the sources described above are insufficient to fund our activities in the
long term, we may be required to raise additional funds through public or private financing. No
assurance can be given that the additional financing will be available or that, if it is available,
it will be on terms acceptable to us.

Purchase Commitments 

From time to time we enter into commitments with our vendors to purchase terminals and support
equipment at fixed prices or guaranteed quantities. During the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we
entered into such an agreement with one of our vendors to provide approximately $1.2 million in
Traveler terminals. As of January 31, 2006, we had fulfilled this purchase commitment. In
addition, during the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we entered into two additional agreements with
the same vendor to provide an additional $2.5 million in Traveler terminals. As of January 31,
2006, approximately $759,000 of that commitment was outstanding and all purchases are expected to
occur by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2006. In addition, during the first quarter of
fiscal 2006 we entered into two additional agreements with the same vendor to provide an additional
$2.4 million in Traveler terminals. All of this commitment was outstanding as of January 31, 2006
and all purchases are expected to occur by the end of fiscal 2006. There were no other significant
contractual obligations at January 31, 2006.

16

Table of Contents   

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. 

Currency Rate Fluctuations 

Revenue and results of operations derived from our non-U.S. markets are denominated in their
local currencies and are affected by changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies and the
U.S. dollar. Our non-U.S. markets are small and local currencies are stable versus the U.S.
dollar. We do not currently utilize hedging instruments.

Market Risks 

We maintain an investment portfolio of approximately $500,000 in available-for-sale debt
securities of the U.S. Government and its agencies, and in investment grade corporate issues. The
values of these investments are subject to changes in interest rates. However, because these
investments are short-term and are generally allowed to mature, we do not believe that any risk
inherent in our portfolio is likely to have a material effect on expected cash flows. We monitor
these investments for impairment and make appropriate reductions in carrying value when necessary.
As of January 31, 2006 we had no derivative financial instruments.

Our revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo includes a $2.5 million line of credit with a
variable interest rate based on the prime rate or LIBOR plus 2%, at our option. The agreement
contains certain restrictive covenants, which among other things require that specified financial
balances and ratios be maintained, quarterly profitability be maintained, restrictions on the
incurrence of additional indebtedness and payment of dividends. In addition, our aggregate of cash
and readily marketable securities must at all times exceed 1.5 multiplied by the amount of the
line-of-credit. The line-of-credit expires on April 2, 2006. No assurance can be made for renewal.
We currently maintain a zero balance on the revolving credit facility.

Because the interest rate on the revolving credit facility is variable, our cash flow may be
affected by increases in interest rates, in that we would be required to pay more interest in the
event that both the prime and LIBOR interest rates increase. We do not believe, however, that any
risk inherent in the variable-rate nature of the loan is likely to have a material effect on our
interest expense or available cash.

Sensitivity Analysis Market Risks.  Assuming we had a $2.5 million balance outstanding as of
January 31, 2006, the rate of interest calculated using the prime rate option would be 7.50%. Our
monthly interest payment, if the rate stayed constant, would be $15,625. If the prime rate rose to
12.0%, which assumes an unusually large increase, our monthly payment would be $25,000. A more
likely increase of 1.0% or 2.0%, given the recent trend of relatively low interest rates, would
result in a monthly payment of $17,708 or $19,792, respectively. We do not believe the risk
resulting from such fluctuations is material or that the payment required would have a material
effect on cash flow.

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. 

We have evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of January 31, 2006. Based
on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that we record, process, summarize, and
report information required to be disclosed by us in our quarterly reports filed under the
Securities Exchange Act within the time periods specified by the Securities and Exchange
Commission s rules and forms. During the quarterly period covered by this report, and other than
as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, there have not been any changes in our internal
controls over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE  SAFE HARBOR  PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES
LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 

This document includes various  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of Section 27A
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, which represent our expectations or beliefs concerning future events. Statements
containing expressions, such as  believes,   anticipates,  or  expects,  used in our press releases
and periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC, are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.
Although we believe our expectations are based upon reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business and operations, there can be no assurances that actual results
will not differ materially from expected results. We caution that these and similar statements
included in this report are further qualified by important factors that could cause actual results
to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Such factors include those
discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005. Readers are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the
date thereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to such forward-looking
statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof.

17

Table of Contents   

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 

ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. 

On March 22, 2001, we filed  GameTech International, Inc. v. Trend Gaming Systems, LLC , CIV
01-0540 PHX LOA, a claim in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona, seeking a
declaratory judgment that we are not in material breach of our November 1, 1999 Distribution
Agreement with Trend Gaming Systems, LLC ( Trend ), and seeking damages for past due payments and
wrongful withholdings by Trend. Trend counterclaimed, alleging that its payments were in
compliance with its contractual obligations. Trend also contended that we were in breach of
certain of our contractual obligations to Trend, including that we had wrongfully terminated Trend.
On December 16, 2002, the court entered at our request an order enjoining Trend from using
approximately $540,000 in funds it had collected on our behalf, pending a trial on our ownership
interest in those funds. The money was placed in two bank accounts/constructive trusts, subject to
the court s control. The sums in those accounts now total approximately $600,000. In addition,
collections of accounts receivable by Trend, if any, are also being placed in that account, pending
the resolution of the case. We have posted a $450,000 deposit with the court as a bond, which is
presented as restricted cash on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The accounts receivable
from Trend were fully reserved as of January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005. Trial in this matter
commenced October 4, 2004. On November 1, 2004, the jury returned a verdict in favor of Trend
against us in the amount of $3.5 million in compensatory damages. The jury also awarded us
$735,000 in compensatory damages against Trend for funds Trend collected on our behalf but failed
to remit to us. The court denied all of our post-trial motions, except that it maintained the
injunction imposing a constructive trust, pending resolution of the issues on appeal. The court
setoff the jury awards and entered an amended judgment for Trend on May 12, 2005, in the amount of
$2.8 million, plus interest on that sum at the rate of 3.31% per annum beginning March 30, 2005.
We appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on April 8, 2005. We
posted a supersedeas bond on April 8, 2005 in the court-appointed amount of $3.4 million, which
bond stays any action by Trend to collect on the judgment, pending appeal. Trend initially sought
an award of $810,000 in legal fees and $26,000 in expenses and costs. In an amended request, Trend
sought an award of $1.4 million in legal fees and $61,000 in expenses and costs. The court awarded
Trend $909,000 in legal fees, expenses and costs plus interest of 3.77% per annum beginning August
5, 2005. We appealed the fee award to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on
August 5, 2005. We posted an additional supersedeas bond with the court on August 18, 2005 in the
amount of $1.1 million, thereby staying any action by Trend to collect the fees, pending appeal.
Any cash used in the collateralization of the bonds is accounted for as restricted short-term
investments on our consolidated balance sheets. We cannot provide assurance that we will succeed
in setting the judgments aside on appeals. Currently, the court has not set a hearing date for the
appeal. For the year ended October 31, 2004, we recorded an estimated loss contingency in the
Trend litigation of $3.6 million, which was estimated based on the amounts of the judgment
described above. We recorded an additional loss contingency of $72,000 to account for the
increased award for Trend for legal fees and expenses and costs and a loss contingency of $24,000
was recorded to account for interest accrued on the Trend judgment, both in fiscal 2005. In
addition, a loss contingency of $32,000 was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 to account
for interest accrued on the Trend judgment. We feel the amount recorded as of January 31, 2006 is
appropriate.

We are involved in various other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our
business. We do not believe that any of those proceedings will have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial position, or results of operations.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

No material changes have been made in the disclosure of risk factors from those set forth in
our Annual Report on Form 10-K dated October 31, 2005.

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS. 

Not Applicable

18

Table of Contents   

ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES. 

Not Applicable

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. 

Not Applicable

ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION. 

Not Applicable

19

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Signature 
       
     Title 
       
     Date 

/s/ Jay M. Meilstrup

Jay M. Meilstrup

Chief Executive Officer and President 
(Principal Executive Officer)

March 16, 2006 

/s/ James C. Wilson

James C. Wilson

Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer)

March 16, 2006 

/s/ Ann D. McKenzie

Ann D. McKenzie

Corporate Controller 
(Principal Accounting Officer)

March 16, 2006 

20

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

21

<EX-31.1>
 2
 p72021exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Jay Meilstrup, certify that:

1.      I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of GameTech International, Inc.;

2.      Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report;

3.      Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report;

4.      The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

a)       Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b)       Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and

c)       Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and

5.      The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions):

a)       All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report
financial information; and

b)       Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.

Date: March 16, 2006

/S/ Jay M. Meilstrup 

Jay M. Meilstrup 

Chief Executive Officer 

22

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 p72021exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATION 

I, James C. Wilson, certify that:

1.      I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of GameTech International, Inc.;

2.      Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report;

3.      Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report;

4.      The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

a)       Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b)       Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and

c)       Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and

5.      The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions):

a)       All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report
financial information; and

b)       Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.

Date: March 16, 2006

/S/ James C. Wilson 

James C. Wilson 

Chief Financial Officer 

23

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 p72021exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION 
PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of GameTech International, Inc. (the
 Company ) for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Jay Meilstrup, Chief Executive Officer of
the Company, certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

24

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 p72021exv32w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION 
PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of GameTech International, Inc. (the
 Company ) for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, James C. Wilson, Chief Financial Officer
of the Company, certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(4) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

25

</EX-32.2>

