<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060323_10-Q_edgar_data_277924_0001035704-06-000213_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>193433</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>52563</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>88664</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>14</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>3</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001035704-06-000213.hdr.sgml : 20060323
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060323124841
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001035704-06-000213
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		4
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060323
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060323

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CREDO PETROLEUM CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000277924
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				840772991
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CO
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-08877
		FILM NUMBER:		06705625

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1801 BROADWAY STE 900
		CITY:			DENVER
		STATE:			CO
		ZIP:			80202
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3032972200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1801 BROADWAY
		STREET 2:		SUITE 900
		CITY:			DENVER
		STATE:			CO
		ZIP:			80202

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GeJoSp+MC7I202j2PLjlkjUouPoOv4gsVlKPC4phn0GD0pWS0fD+ighBEZB9hVHW
 5tIae9PaJdfnJahY78Q8WQ==

 0001035704-06-000213.txt : 20060323

10-Q
 1
 d34179e10vq.htm
 FORM 10-Q

e10vq 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form 10-Q 

(Mark One)

For the quarterly period ended  January 31, 2006 

For the transition period from                        to                       

Commission File Number: 0-8877 

CREDO PETROLEUM CORPORATION  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

303-297-2200 

(Registrant s
telephone number, including area code) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. (See definition of  accelerated filer  and  large accelerated filer 
in Rule 12b-2 of the Act.)

Large accelerated filer                     Accelerated filer                     Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes     No    

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common stock, net of
treasury stock, as of the latest practicable date.

CREDO PETROLEUM CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q For the Period Ended January 31, 2006 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page No.  

PART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Item 1. Financial Statements 

Consolidated Balance Sheets
As of January 31, 2006 (Unaudited) and October 31, 2005  

3 

Consolidated Statements of Operations
For the Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (Unaudited)  

4 

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss)
For the Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 (Unaudited)  

5 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
For the Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (Unaudited)  

6 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)  

7 

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  

10 

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

16 

Item 4. Controls and Procedures  

16 

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION  

Item 1. Legal Proceedings  

17 

Item 1A. Risk Factors  

17 

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

17 

Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities  

17 

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

17 

Item 5. Other Information  

17 

Item 6. Exhibits  

17 

Signatures  

18 

Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of CEO & CFO Pursuant to Section 906    

The terms  CREDO ,  Company ,  we ,  our , and  us  refer to CREDO Petroleum Corporation and its
subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise.

2

Table of Contents   

PART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

CREDO PETROLEUM CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

3

Table of Contents   

CREDO PETROLEUM CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Consolidated Statements of Operations 

(Unaudited) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

4

Table of Contents   

CREDO PETROLEUM CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Statement of Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) 

(Unaudited) 

For the Three Months Ended January 31, 2006

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

5

Table of Contents   

CREDO PETROLEUM CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

(Unaudited) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

6

Table of Contents   

CREDO PETROLEUM CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 

January 31, 2006 

1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION 

The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
U. S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the
instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all
of the information and footnotes required by U. S. generally accepted accounting principles for
complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, the consolidated financial statements
contain all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a
fair presentation of the company s results for the periods presented. These consolidated financial
statements should be read in conjunction with the company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended October 31, 2005.

The company effected a three-for-two stock split in the third fiscal quarter of 2005. All share
and per share amounts discussed and disclosed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q reflect the
effect of that stock split.

2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. The company bases its estimates on historical experience and
on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Although actual
results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions, the company
believes that its estimates are reasonable and that actual results will not vary significantly from
the estimated amounts.

3. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 

The company currently has one stock-based employee compensation plan, which is described in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended October 31, 2005. Prior to November 1, 2005, the company accounted for this plan under the
recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , and related interpretations, as permitted by Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation . No
stock-based employee compensation expense was recognized in the company s Consolidated Statement of
Operations prior to November 1, 2005, as all options granted under the company s stock-based
compensation plan had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on
the date of grant. Effective November 1, 2005, the company adopted the fair value recognition
provisions of SFAS No. 123 (R),  Share Based Payment , using the modified-retrospective-transition
method. Under this transition method, the company restated the results of all prior periods back to the
beginning of fiscal 1997 (the fiscal year of inception for this stock-based compensation plan) in accordance
with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123. The cumulative effect of this restatement was an increase
of $1,447,000 to capital in excess of par value and a decrease to retained earnings in the same amount. For
the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, the company recognized compensation expense related to
its stock option plan of $60,000 and $53,000, respectively. The company has not made any option grants during fiscal
2006. If option grants are made in the future, compensation expense for all such share-based
payments granted, based upon the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions
of SFAS No. 123(R) will also be included in compensation expense.

7

Table of Contents   

4. NATURAL GAS PRICE HEDGING 

The company periodically hedges the price of a portion of its estimated natural gas production when
the potential for significant downward price movement is anticipated. Hedging transactions
typically take the form of forward short positions and collars on the NYMEX futures market, and are
closed by purchasing offsetting positions. Such hedges, which are accounted for as cash flow
hedges, do not exceed estimated production volumes, are expected to have reasonable correlation
between price movements in the futures market and the cash markets where the company s production
is located, and are authorized by the company s Board of Directors. Hedges are expected to be
closed as related production occurs but may be closed earlier if the anticipated downward price
movement occurs or if the company believes that the potential for such movement has abated.

The company recognizes all derivatives (consisting solely of cash flow hedges) on the balance sheet
at fair value at the end of each period. Changes in the fair value of a cash flow hedge are
recorded in Stockholders  Equity as Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets and then are reclassified into the Consolidated Statement of Operations
as the underlying hedged item affects earnings. Amounts reclassified into earnings related to
natural gas hedges are included in oil and gas sales.

Hedging gains and losses are recognized as adjustments to gas sales as the hedged product is
produced. The company had after tax hedging losses of $191,000 in the first fiscal quarter of 2006
and after tax hedging losses of $163,000 for the same period in 2005. Any hedge ineffectiveness,
which was not material for the first fiscal quarter of 2006, is immediately recognized in gas
sales. The company currently has no open hedge positions.

The company has a hedging line of credit with its bank which is available, at the discretion of the
company, to meet margin calls. To date, the company has not used this facility and maintains it
only as a precaution related to possible margin calls. The maximum credit line is $2,000,000 with
interest calculated at the prime rate. The facility is unsecured and requires the company to
maintain $3,000,000 in cash or short term investments and prohibits unfunded debt in excess of
$500,000. It expires on October 31, 2006.

8

Table of Contents   

5. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

Comprehensive income includes all changes in equity during a period except those resulting from
investments by owners and distributions to owners. The components of comprehensive income for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:

6. EARNINGS PER SHARE 

The company s calculation of earnings per share of common stock is as follows:

7. INCOME TAXES 

The company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes. Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the temporary differences between the financial
statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets or liabilities at the end
of each period are determined using the tax rate in effect at that time.

The total future deferred income tax liability is extremely complicated for any energy company to
estimate due in part to the long-lived nature of depleting oil and gas reserves and variables such
as product prices. Accordingly, the liability is subject to continual recalculation, revision of
the numerous estimates required, and may change significantly in the event of such things as major
acquisitions, divestitures, product price changes, changes in reserve estimates, changes in reserve
lives, and changes in tax rates or tax laws.

9

Table of Contents   

8. COMMITMENTS 

Effective January 1, 2005, the company entered into an exploration agreement to generate and market
gas drilling prospects in South Texas. The company is currently committed to spend $1,900,000 over
two years primarily for seismic, leases and administrative costs. Through January 31, 2006, the
company has made payments of $1,470,000 towards this commitment. In general, all costs incurred by
the company are allocated over a number of prospects, and payout is calculated on a prospect by
prospect basis based on recovery of the cost allocated to each prospect. The company owns 75% of
each generated prospect before payout and 37.5% after payout. The company has the option to
participate in each prospect for all, or a portion, of its interest. If the company does not
participate for the full interest, the remaining amount will be sold to industry participants on a
promoted basis. Drilling of generated prospects is not covered by the agreement. The company s
drilling cost, if any, will depend upon its election to participate with, or sell, all or a portion
of its interest in any prospect generated.

In April 2005, the company committed approximately $1,200,000 over an expected two-year period to
purchase a 30% interest in 18,000 gross acres along the Central Kansas Uplift, in Graham and
Sheridan counties, Kansas, participate in a 3-D seismic survey, and drill five exploratory wells.
Through January 31, 2006, the company has made payments of $700,000 towards this commitment.
Subsequent drilling will be determined by results from the initial wells. Approximately 28 square
miles of proprietary 3-D seismic will be shot to define Lansing-Kansas City oil prospects at about
4,000 feet.

ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes certain statements that may be deemed to be
 forward-looking statements  within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements
included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, other than statements of historical facts, address
matters that the company reasonably expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the
future. Forward-looking statements may relate to, among other things:

the company s future financial position, including working capital and
anticipated cash flow; 

amounts and nature of future capital expenditures; 

operating costs and other expenses; 

wells to be drilled or reworked; 

oil and natural gas prices and demand; 

existing fields, wells and prospects; 

diversification of exploration; 

estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves; 

reserve potential; 

development and drilling potential; 

expansion and other development trends in the oil and natural gas industry; 

the company s business strategy; 

production of oil and natural gas; 

matters related to the Calliope Gas Recovery System; 

effects of federal, state and local regulation; 

insurance coverage; 

employee relations; 

investment strategy and risk; and 

expansion and growth of the company s business and operations. 

10

Table of Contents   

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

At January 31, 2006, working capital was $7,964,000, compared to $6,305,000 at January 31, 2005.
For the three months ended January 31, 2006, net cash provided by operating activities increased
$1,127,000, or 37% to $4,169,000 when compared to net cash provided by operating activities of
$3,042,000 for the same period in 2005. This increase is primarily the result of increases in net
income and other non-cash items of $1,109,000; a net increase of $211,000 in short term investments
in 2006 versus a net decrease in short term investments of $963,000 in 2005 which resulted in a net
decrease in cash provided by operating activities of $1,174,000 between the two periods; a net
decrease in cash provided by operating activities as a result of changes in accrued oil and gas
sales, trade receivables and other current assets of $354,000; and a net increase in cash provided
by operating activities as a result of changes in accounts payable and income taxes payable of
$1,546,000. For the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, net cash used in investing
activities was $3,221,000 and $2,377,000, respectively. Investing activities primarily included
oil and gas exploration and development expenditures, including Calliope, totaling $3,539,000 and
$2,343,000, respectively.

The average return on the company s investments for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and
2005 was 3.2% and 1.0%, respectively. At January 31, 2006, approximately 55% of the investments
were directly invested in mutual funds and were managed by professional money managers. Remaining
investments are in managed partnerships that use various strategies to minimize their correlation
to stock market movements. Most of the investments are highly liquid and the company believes they
represent a responsible approach to cash management. In the company s opinion, the greatest
investment risk is the potential for negative market impact from unexpected, major adverse news.

Existing working capital and anticipated cash flow are expected to be sufficient to fund operations
and capital commitments for at least the next 12 months. As discussed in Note 8 to the
consolidated financial statements, at January 31, 2006 the company had remaining commitments of
$930,000 related to projects in South Texas and along the Central Kansas uplift. Such costs, which
include overhead, lease bonuses, land services and 3-D seismic, are expected to be funded over the
next 9 to 12 months. At January 31, 2006, the company had no lines of credit or other bank
financing arrangements except for the hedging line of credit discussed in Note 4. Because earnings
are anticipated to be reinvested in operations, cash dividends are not expected to be paid. The
company has no defined benefit plans and no obligations for post retirement employee benefits.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCING 

The company has no off-balance sheet financing arrangements at January 31, 2006.

PRODUCT PRICES AND PRODUCTION 

Although product prices are key to the company s ability to operate profitably and to budget
capital expenditures, they are beyond the company s control and are difficult to predict. Since
1991, the company has periodically hedged the price of a portion of its estimated natural gas
production when the potential for significant downward price movement is anticipated. Hedging
transactions typically take the form of forward short positions and collars on the NYMEX futures
market, and are closed by purchasing offsetting positions. Such hedges, which are accounted for as
cash flow hedges, do not exceed estimated production volumes, are expected to have reasonable
correlation between price movements in the futures market and the cash markets where the company s
production is located, and are authorized by the company s Board of Directors. Hedges are expected
to be closed as related production occurs but may be closed earlier if the anticipated downward
price movement occurs or if the company believes that the potential for such movement has abated.
Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a complete discussion on the company s
hedging activities.

11

Table of Contents   

Gas and oil sales volume and price realization comparisons for the indicated periods are set forth
below. Price realizations include the sales price and hedging losses.

OPERATIONS 

During the first fiscal quarter the company continued to focus on its two core projects   natural
gas drilling and application of its patented Calliope Gas Recovery System.

During fiscal 2005, the company expanded into South Texas through an exploration program using 3-D
seismic to define the Vicksburg, Frio, Queen and Wilcox prospects in Hidalgo and Jim Hogg counties
and into north-central Kansas through an exploration program using 3-D seismic to define
Lansing-Kansas City oil prospects in Graham and Sheridan counties. The company believes that, in
combination, its drilling and Calliope projects provide an excellent (and possibly unique) balance
for achieving its goal of adding long-lived natural gas reserves and production at reasonable costs
and risks.

The company will continue to actively pursue adding reserves through its two core projects in
fiscal 2006 and expects these activities to be a reliable source of reserve additions. However,
the timing and extent of such activities can be dependent on many factors which are beyond the
company s control, including but not limited to, the availability of oil field services such as
drilling rigs, production equipment and related services and access to wells for application of the
company s patented liquid lift system on low pressure gas wells. The prevailing price of oil and
natural gas has a significant affect on demand and, thus, the related cost of such services and
wells.

The company is currently experiencing delays in securing drilling rigs and for the delivery of
production equipment, primarily compressors and coil tubing. These delays are extending the time
it takes the company to conduct its field operations. As a result, the company could be at risk
for price increases related to these types of services and equipment.

Drilling Activities.   The company currently drills primarily on its 60,000 gross acre inventory
located along the northern shelf of the Anadarko Basin. Drilling expenditures were concentrated on the company s acreage
inventory located along the northern shelf of the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma. The wells targeted
the Morrow, Oswego and Chester formations between 7,000 and 10,000 feet. A substantial number of
additional wells are anticipated for the area.

Drilling is not restricted to the northern Anadarko shelf acreage. The company is generating
prospects elsewhere in the Northern Anadarko Basin, in the Oklahoma Panhandle, north-central
Oklahoma, north-central Kansas and South Texas.

In the first quarter of 2006, a series of six wells were drilled in Harper and Ellis Counties,
Oklahoma. Three were dry holes and the other three were completed for production in February 2006.
The three new producers

12

Table of Contents   

are located on the company s 5,120 gross acre Glacier Prospect, the 2,560 gross acre Buffalo Creek
Prospect, and the 1,280 gross acre Gage Prospect. The company has working interests ranging from
31% to 57% in these wells. The next round of drilling is expected to begin in May 2006 with three
to six wells.

During fiscal 2005, the company significantly expanded both the volume and breadth of its
exploration program with new projects in South Texas and north-central Kansas. It is the company s
intention to diversify its exploration geographically, scientifically, and in terms of capital,
risk and reserve potential. Compared to drilling in Oklahoma, the South Texas project involves
higher costs and greater risks but significantly higher per well reserve potential. The
north-central Kansas project is geared to oil exploration and has excellent potential to add
significant reserves at moderate costs and risks. Both projects are in areas where 3-D seismic is
a proven exploration tool and where continuing refinements are providing excellent exploration
success. Equally as important, both exploration teams specialize in their respective geographic
areas and have been highly successful finding new reserves using 3-D seismic.

As previously discussed, drilling of generated South Texas prospects is not covered by the
exploration agreement and, therefore, is not a capital requirement under the exploration agreement.
Drilling is expected to commence in mid-2006. The initial four well drilling program will be
located in Hidalgo and Jim Hogg Counties and wells will range in depth from 10,200 to 15,500 feet
with an estimated total cost (8\8ths basis) for all four wells of approximately $14,000,000.
Completed costs for individual wells are estimated to range from $1,500,000 at 10,200 feet to
$6,500,000 at 15,500 feet. The company is currently evaluating what portion of its 37.5% after
payout interest to retain for direct participation.

The north-central Kansas project agreement provides for approximately 28 square miles of 3-D
seismic to be collected and evaluated and five exploratory wells to be drilled. Completed costs
for individual wells are estimated to be approximately $280,000. Drilling will commence after new
3-D seismic shooting and interpretation is completed, which is expected in mid-2006.

All of the company s oil and natural gas properties are located on-shore in the continental United
States. The company s future drilling activities may not be successful, and its overall drilling
success rate may change. Unsuccessful drilling activities could have a material adverse effect on
the company s results of operations and financial condition. Also, the company may not be able to
obtain the right to drill in areas where it believes there is significant potential for the
company.

Calliope Gas Recovery Technology.   The company owns the exclusive right to a patented technology
known as the Calliope Gas Recovery System. Calliope can achieve substantially lower flowing bottom
hole pressure than conventional production methods because it does not rely on reservoir pressure
to lift liquids. Lower bottom hole pressure can translate into recovery of substantial additional
natural gas reserves.

Calliope has proven to be reliable and flexible over a wide range of applications on wells the
company owns and operates. It has also proven to be consistently successful. Accordingly, the
company has recently begun implementing strategies designed to widen the envelope of wells on which
Calliope should be installed.

Realizing Calliope s value continues to be a top priority of the company. The company is focused
on three fronts to increase the number of Calliope installations: expanding the geographic region
for purchasing Calliope candidate wells from third parties, joint ventures with larger companies,
and drilling wells into low-pressure gas reservoirs for the purpose of using Calliope to recover
stranded natural gas reserves.

Higher natural gas prices have facilitated a new project to drill wells into low-pressure natural
gas reservoirs. Many low-pressure reservoirs, including abandoned fields, contain substantial
stranded natural gas that can be recovered by Calliope. This project is designed to ramp-up the
number of Calliope installations, improve the company s control over monetizing Calliope s value,
control configuration of wellbores for optimum Calliope performance, and broaden the range of
reservoirs for Calliope applications. Completed well costs are estimated to be approximately
$2,200,000 including installation of Calliope. The company expects to

13

Table of Contents   

commence drilling wells for Calliope applications in mid-2006 and is considering bringing in
industry participants for the project.

As previously reported, joint venture presentations have been made to a range of companies,
including several of the major oil and gas companies as well as several large independents. All of
these companies have expressed a keen interest in Calliope, and joint venture discussions are
continuing with several of those companies, including evaluation of candidate wells.

In addition to joint ventures and the Calliope drilling project, the company has successfully
expanded its Calliope operations into Texas and Louisiana. In southwest Texas, the company
recently completed two prototype Calliope installations which once again broadened Calliope s
down-hole application, successfully lifting several times more fluid volume than Calliope has
previously lifted from the company s Oklahoma wells. Although this prototype Calliope
configuration limits the amount of natural gas that can be produced during the start-up and
dewatering phase, after initial dewatering and once liquid production stabilizes, the system can be
optimized to allow greater natural gas flow. The company currently has three Calliope candidate
wells that are awaiting Calliope installations, one in Louisiana and two in Oklahoma. If the
company experiences no significant procurement delays, it expects that the installations will be
complete in the company s second fiscal quarter. These efforts are being spearheaded on a
full-time basis by a highly qualified petroleum engineer based in Houston.

Results of Operations 

Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 Compared to Three Months Ended January 31, 2005 

For the three months ended January 31, 2006, total revenues increased 74% to $4,538,000 compared to
$2,606,000 during the same period last year. As the oil and gas price/volume table on page 12
shows, total gas price realizations, which reflect hedging transactions, increased 56% to $8.19 per
Mcf and oil price realizations increased 33% to $56.94 per barrel. The net effect of these price
changes was to increase oil and gas sales by $1,249,000. For the three months ended January 31,
2006, the company s gas equivalent production increased 13% resulting in an oil and gas sales
increase of $486,000. Operating income rose 9% due to drilling and production supervision income
related to operated wells. Investment and other income increased $183,000 primarily due to the
performance of the company s investments.

For the three months ended January 31, 2006, total costs and expenses rose 54% to $2,184,000
compared to $1,417,000 for the comparable period in 2005. Oil and gas production expenses
increased 106% due primarily to an increase in production taxes and lease operating expense.
Production taxes increased during the current period primarily due to the company s receipt of a
production tax rebate during the 2005 period. The increase in lease operating expense is primarily
due to an increase in the number of wells owned by the company and from additional workover
expenses during the 2006 period. Depreciation, depletion and amortization rose 55% primarily due
to an increase in the amortizable full cost pool and increased production. General and
administrative expenses decreased 2%. Interest expense relates to the exclusive license agreement note payment. The effective tax rate was 28%
for the 2006 and 2005 periods.

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

The company believes the following accounting policies and estimates are critical in the
preparation of its consolidated financial statements: the carrying value of its oil and natural gas
properties, the accounting for oil and gas reserves, and the estimate of its asset retirement
obligations.

OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES.   The company uses the full cost method of accounting for costs related to
its oil and natural gas properties. Capitalized costs included in the full cost pool are depleted
on an aggregate basis using the units-of-production method. Depreciation, depletion and
amortization is a significant

14

Table of Contents   

component of oil and natural gas properties. A change in proved reserves without a corresponding
change in capitalized costs will cause the depletion rate to increase or decrease.

Both the volume of proved reserves and any estimated future expenditures used for the depletion
calculation are based on estimates such as those described under  Oil and Gas Reserves  below.

The capitalized costs in the full cost pool are subject to a quarterly ceiling test that limits
such pooled costs to the aggregate of the present value of future net revenues attributable to
proved oil and natural gas reserves discounted at 10 percent plus the lower of cost or market value
of unproved properties less any associated tax effects. If such capitalized costs exceed the
ceiling, the company will record a write-down to the extent of such excess as a non-cash charge to
earnings. Any such write-down will reduce earnings in the period of occurrence and result in lower
depreciation and depletion in future periods. A write-down may not be reversed in future periods,
even though higher oil and natural gas prices may subsequently increase the ceiling.

The company has made only one ceiling write-down in its 28-year history. That write down was made
in 1986 after oil prices fell 51% and natural gas prices fell 45% between fiscal year end 1985 and
1986.

Changes in oil and natural gas prices have historically had the most significant impact on the
company s ceiling test. In general, the ceiling is lower when prices are lower. Even though oil
and natural gas prices can be highly volatile over weeks and even days, the ceiling calculation
dictates that prices in effect as of the last day of the test period be used and held constant.
The resulting valuation is a snapshot as of that day and, thus, is generally not indicative of a
true fair value that would be placed on the company s reserves by the company or by an independent
third party. Therefore, the future net revenues associated with the estimated proved reserves are
not based on the company s assessment of future prices or costs, but rather are based on prices and
costs in effect as of the end the test period.

OIL AND GAS RESERVES.   The determination of depreciation and depletion expense as well as ceiling
test write-downs related to the recorded value of the company s oil and natural gas properties are
highly dependent on the estimates of the proved oil and natural gas reserves. Oil and natural gas
reserves include proved reserves that represent estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas
which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in
future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. There are
numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their values,
including many factors beyond the company s control. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often
different from the quantities of oil and natural gas ultimately recovered and the corresponding
lifting costs associated with the recovery of these reserves.

At October 31, 2005, the date of the company s most recent reserve report, the company s reserves,
and reserve values, were concentrated in 54 properties ( Significant Properties ). Some of the
Significant Properties were individual wells and others were multi-well properties. The
Significant Properties represented 28% of the company s total properties but a disproportionate 76%
of the discounted value (at 10%) of the company s reserves. Individual wells on which the
company s patented liquid lift system is installed comprise 22% of the Significant Properties and
represented 32% of the discounted reserve value of such properties. Relatively new wells comprised
22% of the Significant Properties and represented 24% of the discounted value of such properties.

Estimates of reserve quantities and values for certain Significant Properties must be viewed as
being subject to significant change as more data about the properties becomes available. Such
properties include wells with limited production histories and properties with proved undeveloped
or proved non-producing reserves. In addition, the company s patented liquid lift system is
generally installed on mature wells. As such, they contain older down-hole equipment that is more
subject to failure than new equipment. The failure of such equipment, particularly casing, can
result in complete loss of a well. Historically, performance of the company s wells has not caused
significant revisions in its proved reserves.

15

Table of Contents   

Price changes will affect the economic lives of oil and gas properties and, therefore, price
changes may cause reserve revisions. Price changes have not caused significant proved reserve
revisions by the company except in 1986 when a 51% decline in oil prices and a 45% decline in
natural gas prices resulted in an 8.7% reduction in estimated proved reserves. Based upon this
historical experience, the company does not believe its reserve estimates are particularly
sensitive to prices changes within historical ranges.

One measure of the life of the company s proved reserves can be calculated by dividing proved
reserves at a fiscal year end by production for that fiscal year. This measure yields an average
reserve life of nine years. Since this measure is an average, by definition, some of the company s
properties will have a life shorter than the average and some will have a life longer than the
average. The expected economic lives of the company s properties may vary widely depending on,
among other things, the size and quality, natural gas and oil prices, possible curtailments in
consumption by purchasers, and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. As a result, the
company s actual future net cash flows from proved reserves could be materially different from its
estimates.

The company is not aware of any material adverse issues related to its reserves regarding
regulatory approval, the availability of additional development capital, or the installation of
additional infrastructure.

ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS.   SFAS No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations  requires
that the company estimate the future cost of asset retirement obligations, discount that cost to
its present value, and record a corresponding asset and liability in its Consolidated Balance
Sheets. The values ultimately derived are based on many significant estimates, including future
abandonment costs, inflation, market risk premiums, useful life, and cost of capital. The nature
of these estimates requires the company to make judgments based on historical experience and future
expectations. Revisions to the estimates may be required based on such things as changes to cost
estimates or the timing of future cash outlays. Any such changes that result in upward or downward
revisions in the estimated obligation will result in an adjustment to the related capitalized asset
and corresponding liability on a prospective basis.

REVENUE RECOGNITION   .  The company derives its revenue primarily from the sale of produced
natural gas and crude oil. The company reports revenue gross for the amounts received before
taking into account production taxes and transportation costs which are reported as separate
expenses. Revenue is recorded in the month production is delivered to the purchaser at which time
title changes hands. The company makes estimates of the amount of production delivered to
purchasers and the prices it will receive. The company uses its knowledge of its properties; their
historical performance; the anticipated effect of weather conditions during the month of
production; NYMEX and local spot market prices; and other factors as the basis for these estimates.
Variances between estimates and the actual amounts received are recorded when payment is received.

A majority of the company s sales are made under contractual arrangements with terms that are
considered to be usual and customary in the oil and gas industry. The contracts are for periods of
up to five years with prices determined based upon a percentage of a pre-determined and published
monthly index price. The terms of these contracts have not had an effect on how the company
recognizes its revenue.

The company s operating revenue is comprised of contractually based payments made to the company,
as operator, to drill and supervise oil and gas wells. The company reports these revenues gross
for the amounts received before taking into account related costs which are recorded as separate
expenses. Revenue is recorded in the month it is earned. The company views providing these
services as a way to control the operations on wells in which it owns an interest.

16

Table of Contents   

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

The company manages exposure to commodity price fluctuations by periodically hedging a portion of
expected production through the use of derivatives, typically collars and forward short positions
in the NYMEX futures market. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations Product Prices and Production  for more information on the company s hedging
activities. The company currently has no open hedge positions.

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

The effectiveness of our or any system of disclosure controls and procedures is subject to certain
limitations, including the exercise of judgment in designing, implementing and evaluating the
controls and procedures, the assumptions used in identifying the likelihood of future events, and
the inability to eliminate misconduct completely. As a result, there can be no assurance that our
disclosure controls and procedures will detect all errors or fraud. By their nature, our or any
system of disclosure controls and procedures can provide only reasonable assurance regarding
management s control objectives.

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, or the  Exchange Act ) as of January 31, 2006. On the basis of this review, our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures are designed, and are effective, to give reasonable assurance
that the information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file under the Exchange Act
is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and
forms of the SEC and to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or
submitted under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, in a manner that allows timely decisions
regarding required disclosure. There were no changes in the company s internal controls over
financial reporting that occurred in the first fiscal quarter of 2006 that materially affected or
were reasonably likely to materially affect, its internal control over financial reporting.

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION 

ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

None.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

There have been no material changes from the risk factors
previously disclosed in the company s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2005.

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 

None.

ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES 

None.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

None.

17

Table of Contents   

ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION 

None.

ITEM 6. EXHIBITS 

Exhibits are as follow:

18

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

CREDO Petroleum Corporation

(Registrant)

By:

/s/ James T. Huffman 

James T. Huffman 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

By:

/s/ David W. Vreeman 

David W. Vreeman 

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

Date:
March 22, 2006

19

Table of Contents   

Exhibit Index 

<EX-31.1>
 2
 d34179exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 15D-14 OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, James T. Huffman, Chief Executive Officer of CREDO Petroleum Corporation, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of CREDO Petroleum Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this quarterly report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this quarterly report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this quarterly report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this quarterly report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)), or for causing such controls and procedures to be established and
maintained, for the registrant and have; 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s independent
registered public accounting firm and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors
(or persons performing the equivalent function): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 22, 2006

/s/

James T. Huffman

James T. Huffman 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 d34179exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 15D-14 OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, David W. Vreeman, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CREDO Petroleum Corporation,
certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of CREDO Petroleum Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this quarterly report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this quarterly report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this quarterly report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this quarterly report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)), or for causing such controls and procedures to be established and
maintained, for the Registrant and have; 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s independent
registered public accounting firm and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors
(or persons performing the equivalent function): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 22, 2006

/s/

David W. Vreeman

David W. Vreeman 

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 d34179exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO & CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of 
CREDO Petroleum Corporation (Pursuant To 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) 

In connection with this Quarterly Report of CREDO Petroleum Corporation (the  company ) on Form
10-Q for the period ending January 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the  Report ), we, James T. Huffman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the
company, and David W. Vreeman, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the company, each
hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.,   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, that to our knowledge:

1. 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

2. 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the company. 

March 22, 2006

/s/ James T. Huffman

James T. Huffman

President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ David W. Vreeman

David W. Vreeman

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 has been provided to CREDO Petroleum Corporation and will be retained by CREDO Petroleum
Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

</EX-32.1>

