<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060313_10-Q_edgar_data_78460_0000950144-06-002130_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>226308</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>74503</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>96464</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>15</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950144-06-002130.hdr.sgml : 20060313
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060313113429
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950144-06-002130
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060313
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060313

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PIEDMONT NATURAL GAS CO INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000078460
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION [4924]
		IRS NUMBER:				560556998
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06196
		FILM NUMBER:		06681202

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1915 REXFORD RD
		CITY:			CHARLOTTE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28211
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7043643120

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 33068
		CITY:			CHARLOTTE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28233

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 D9Dnma2cx1IsbwYBwEuPu6JkrvYmyhtkA2e0D+oxWO5CPbmTaWuOHwRTH14Tbfbx
 f1DmCklZZvzO4UBLGAun9g==

 0000950144-06-002130.txt : 20060313

10-Q
 1
 g00107e10vq.htm
 PIEDMONT NATURAL GAS COMPANY, INC.

Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D. C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

(Mark One)

For the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006

or 

For the Transition period from                                              to                                             

Commission file number    1-6196  

Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

North Carolina

56-0556998 

(State or other jurisdiction of 
incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer 
Identification No.) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code  (704) 364-3120 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check One):

Large Accelerated Filer                Accelerated Filer                Non-accelerated Filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes     No    

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common stock, as of
the latest practicable date.

PART 1. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1. Financial Statements

Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) 
(In thousands)

See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

2

Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited) 
(In thousands except per share amounts)

See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

3

Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) 
(In thousands)

See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

4

Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited) 
(In thousands)

See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.

5

Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 

1. The condensed consolidated financial statements have not been audited. These financial
statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes
included in our Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005.

2. In our opinion, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include all normal
recurring adjustments necessary for a fair statement of financial position at January 31, 2006 and
October 31, 2005, and the results of operations and cash flows for the three months ended January
31, 2006 and 2005. Our business is seasonal in nature. The results of operations for the three
months ended January 31, 2006, do not necessarily reflect the results to be expected for the full
year.

We make estimates and assumptions when preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements.
These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from estimates.

3. We follow Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects
of Certain Types of Regulation  (Statement 71). Statement 71 provides that rate-regulated public
utilities account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the
manner in which independent third-party regulators establish rates. In applying Statement 71, we
capitalize certain costs and benefits as regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, in order
to provide for recovery from or refund to utility customers in future periods. The amounts
recorded as regulatory assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of January 31, 2006
and October 31, 2005, were $60.2 million and $85.8 million, respectively. The amounts recorded as
regulatory liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of January 31, 2006 and
October 31, 2005, were $340.3 million and $333.3 million, respectively.

Significant inter-company transactions have been eliminated in consolidation where appropriate;
however, we have not eliminated inter-company profit on sales to affiliates and costs from
affiliates in accordance with Statement 71. See Note 8 for information on related party
transactions.

4. On November 3, 2005, the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC) issued an order in a general
rate case proceeding approving, among other things, an annual increase in margin of $20.2 million
and authorizing new rates effective November 1, 2005. The order provided for the elimination of
the weather normalization adjustment (WNA) mechanism in North Carolina and the establishment of a
Customer Utilization Tracker (CUT). The CUT is experimental and can be effective for no more than
three years, subject to review and approval in a future general rate case proceeding. The CUT
provides for the recovery of our approved margin per customer independent of weather or other usage
and consumption patterns of residential and commercial customers. The CUT tracks our margin earned
monthly and will result in semi-annual rate adjustments to refund any over-collection or recover
any under-collection.

On January 3, 2006, the North Carolina Office of the Attorney General filed a notice of appeal in
this rate proceeding challenging the lawfulness of the NCUC s authorization and approval of the
CUT. We believe the CUT is lawful, just and reasonable and reflects good public policy, and we
intend to

6

vigorously defend the NCUC s action authorizing and approving the CUT. We are unable to
predict the outcome of an appeal or the potential impact to our rates, charges or terms and
conditions of service should the NCUC order be reversed or remanded.

5. Components of the net periodic benefit cost for our defined-benefit pension plans and our
postretirement health care and life insurance benefits plan for the three months ended January 31,
2006 and 2005, are presented below.

We estimate that we will contribute $15.3 million to the pension plans and $2.6 million to the
other postretirement benefits plan in 2006.

6. We compute basic earnings per share using the weighted average number of shares of common stock
outstanding during each period. A reconciliation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, is presented below.

7. We have two reportable business segments, regulated utility and non-utility activities.
These segments were identified based on products and services, regulatory environments and our
corporate organization and business decision-making activities. Operations of our regulated
utility segment are conducted by the parent company. Operations of our non-utility activities
segment are comprised of our equity method investments in joint ventures.

Operations of the regulated utility segment are reflected in operating income in the condensed
consolidated statements of income. Operations of the non-utility activities segment are included
in the condensed consolidated statements of income in  Income from equity method investments. 

We evaluate the performance of the regulated utility segment based on operating income. We
evaluate the performance of the non-utility activities segment based on earnings from the ventures.
The basis of segmentation and the basis of the measurement of segment profit or loss are the same
as reported in the

7

consolidated financial statements for the year ended October 31, 2005.

Operations by segment for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, are presented
below.

Reconciliations to the condensed consolidated statements of income for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 and 2005, are presented below.

8. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of wholly owned
subsidiaries whose investments in joint venture, energy-related businesses are accounted for under
the equity method. Our ownership interest in each entity is included in  Equity method investments
in non-utility activities  in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Earnings or losses from
equity method investments are included in  Income from equity method investments  in the condensed
consolidated statements of income.

We own 21.48% of the membership interests in Cardinal Pipeline Company, L.L.C., a North Carolina
limited liability company. Cardinal owns and operates an intrastate natural gas pipeline in North
Carolina and is regulated by the NCUC. We have related party transactions as a transportation
customer of Cardinal, and we record in cost of gas the transportation costs charged by Cardinal.
For the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, these gas costs were $1.2 million. As of
January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, we owed Cardinal $.4 million.

We own 40% of the membership interests in Pine Needle LNG Company, L.L.C., a North Carolina limited
liability company. Pine Needle owns an interstate liquefied natural gas (LNG) storage facility in
North Carolina and is regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). We have
related party transactions as a customer of Pine Needle, and we record in cost of gas the storage
costs charged by Pine Needle. For the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, these gas
costs were $3.2 million and $3.1 million, respectively. As of January 31, 2006 and October 31,
2005, we owed Pine Needle $1.1

8

million.

We own 30% of the membership interests in SouthStar Energy Services LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company. Under the terms of an amended and restated limited liability company operating
agreement effective January 1, 2004, earnings and losses are allocated 25% to us and 75% to the
other member. SouthStar sells natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers in
the southeastern United States; however, SouthStar conducts most of its business in the unregulated
retail gas market in Georgia. We have related party transactions as we sell wholesale gas supplies
to SouthStar, and we record in operating revenues the amounts billed to SouthStar. For the three
months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, these operating revenues were $8.6 million and $3.5
million, respectively. As of January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, SouthStar owed us $1.5 million
and $.9 million, respectively.

9. We have purchased and sold financial options for natural gas in all three states for our gas
purchase portfolios. The gains or losses on financial derivatives utilized in the regulated
utility segment ultimately will be included in our rates to customers. Current period changes in
the assets and liabilities from these risk management activities are recorded as a component of gas
costs in amounts due customers in accordance with Statement 71. Accordingly, there is no earnings
impact on the regulated utility segment as a result of the use of these financial derivatives. The
fair value of gas purchase options decreased from $22.8 million as of October 31, 2005, to $7.5
million as of January 31, 2006, primarily due to options being exercised or options expiring during the
period and being replaced with options having lower market values.

10. Prepayments decreased from $62.8 million as of October 31, 2005, to $13.6 million as of January
31, 2006, primarily due to a decrease in prepaid gas costs. Under asset management agreements,
prepaid gas costs during the summer months represent purchases of gas that is not available for
sale, and therefore not recorded in inventory, until November 1, the beginning of the winter
period.

11. As of January 31, 2006, we had committed bank lines of credit totaling $250 million, for which
we pay a maximum annual fee of $.3 million, and additional uncommitted lines of credit totaling
$250 million on a no fee and as needed, if available basis. Outstanding short-term borrowings
increased from $158.5 million as of October 31, 2005, to $350 million as of January 31, 2006, as
cash flows during the period resulted in higher outstanding borrowings under our short-term lines
of credit. Of the total amount outstanding as of January 31, 2006, $250 million was under the
committed lines and $100 million was under the uncommitted lines. During the three months ended
January 31, 2006, short-term borrowings ranged from $115 million to $378.5 million, and interest
rates ranged from 4.07% to 4.89%.

12. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123(R),
 Share-Based Payment  (Statement 123R). Statement 123R requires entities to adopt the fair value
method of accounting for stock-based plans. The fair value method requires the amortization of the
fair value of stock-based compensation as determined at the date of grant over the related vesting
period. Under Statement 123R, most employee stock purchase plans that offer a discount of greater
than 5% are considered compensatory. We adopted Statement 123R on November 1, 2005, and amended
our employee stock purchase plan to lower the discount from 10% to 5%. The adoption of Statement
123R did not have any effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations  (FIN 47), to clarify the term  conditional asset retirement  as used in SFAS No. 143,
 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.  FIN 47 requires that a liability be recognized for
the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred, if the fair value of the
liability can be

9

reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing or method of settlement of a
conditional asset retirement obligation would be factored into the measurement of the liability
when sufficient information exists. This interpretation is effective no later than the end of
fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. Accordingly, we will adopt FIN 47 no later than our
fourth fiscal quarter in 2006. We are currently assessing the impact FIN 47 may have on our
consolidated balance sheet; however, we believe the adoption of FIN 47 will not have a material
impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

13. Subsequent to the issuance of our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three
months ended January 31, 2005, management identified errors in the condensed consolidated statement
of cash flows relating to distributions of earnings received from equity method investees, changes
in restricted cash and the amounts reported as construction expenditures. As a result, the
accompanying condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended January 31,
2005, has been restated from the amounts previously reported to correct the presentation of these
items. The restatement did not affect previously reported operating income, net income, earnings
per share or stockholders  equity.

A summary
of the significant effects of the restatement of the condensed
consolidated statement of cash flows is as follows:

As Previously 

In thousands 
       
     Reported 

As Restated 

Cash flows from operating activities:

Distributions of earnings from equity method investments

$ 

$ 
     1,423 

Decrease (increase) in restricted cash

(58 
     ) 

Net cash used in operating activities

(20,933 
     ) 

(17,568 
     ) 

Cash flows from investing activities:

Distributions of capital from equity method investments

1,423 

Decrease (increase) in restricted cash

(58 
     ) 

Net cash used in investing activities

(22,652 
     ) 

(26,017 
     ) 

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations 

The following discussion gives effect to the restatement of the condensed consolidated statement of
cash flows discussed in Note 13 to the condensed consolidated financial statements.

Overview 

Piedmont Natural Gas Company is an energy services company primarily engaged in the distribution of
natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers in portions of North Carolina,
South Carolina and Tennessee. We also have equity method investments in joint venture,
energy-related businesses. Our operations are comprised of two business segments.

The regulated utility segment is the largest segment of our business with approximately 97% of our
consolidated assets. This segment is regulated by three state regulatory commissions that approve
rates and tariffs that are designed to give us the opportunity to generate revenues to cover our
gas and non-gas costs and to earn a fair rate of return for our shareholders. Factors critical to the success of
the regulated utility include a safe, reliable natural gas distribution system and the ability to
recover the costs and expenses of the business in rates charged to customers.

The non-utility activities segment consists of our equity method investments in joint venture,
energy-

10

related businesses that are involved in unregulated retail natural gas marketing, interstate
natural gas storage and intrastate natural gas transportation. We invest in joint ventures that
are aligned with our business strategies to complement or supplement income from utility
operations. We continually monitor performance of these ventures against expectations.

Weather conditions directly influence the volumes of natural gas delivered by the regulated
utility. Significant portions of our revenues are generated during the winter season. During warm
winters or unevenly cold winters, heating customers may significantly reduce their consumption of
natural gas. Through October 31, 2005, we had weather normalization adjustment (WNA) mechanisms in
all states that are designed to protect a portion of our revenues against warmer-than-normal
weather, deviations from normal weather can affect our financial performance and liquidity. The
WNA also serves to offset the impact of colder-than-normal weather by reducing the amounts we can
charge our customers. In a general rate case proceeding during 2005, the NCUC ordered the
establishment of a Customer Utilization Tracker (CUT) and the elimination of the WNA, effective
November 1, 2005. For further information, see  Our Business  in Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Over the past few years, there have been significant increases in the wholesale cost of natural
gas. The relationship between supply and demand has the greatest impact on wholesale gas prices.
Increased prices of natural gas are being driven by increased demand that is exceeding the growth
in available supply. The hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region in August and September 2005 severely
impacted the natural gas production, processing and pipeline infrastructure. As a result of this
disruption in supply and other supply and demand factors, wholesale gas prices increased
dramatically which has significantly increased customers  bills during the 2005-2006 heating
season. There has been some moderation of natural gas prices in late 2005 and early 2006 but
prices still remain high. Warmer-than-normal weather during this heating season mitigated the
higher gas prices and decreased the usage of natural gas. We believe we have sufficient supplies
of natural gas under contract to meet the needs of our firm customers; however, price increases
could shift our customers  preference away from natural gas toward other energy sources,
particularly in the industrial market. Price increases could also affect the consumption levels of
our customers or make it more difficult for them to pay their bills. We expect that the wholesale
price of natural gas will remain high and volatile until natural gas supply and demand are in
better balance.

We receive the majority of our natural gas supplies from the Gulf Coast region. We believe that
diversification of our supply portfolio is in our customers  best interest. We have a firm
transportation contract pending for additional pipeline capacity that will provide access to
Canadian and Rocky Mountain gas supplies via the Chicago hub, primarily to serve our Tennessee
markets. The anticipated in-service date is November 2006. We have also executed an agreement
with Hardy Storage Company for market-area storage capacity in West Virginia with an anticipated
in-service date in 2007.

We have developed a comprehensive strategic communication plan to address the challenges facing our
company and the natural gas industry. Our initiative emphasizes a partnership with our customers
that is focused on reducing high energy bills through customer education, conservation measures and
enrollment in our equal payment plan. We established a web site, NaturalGasAnswers.com, to help
customers learn how to reduce the cost of heating their homes. An important part of the
communication initiative is a grass-roots effort to seek customer support for proposed national
energy policy solutions concerning access to additional domestic sources of supply, LNG imports, greater fuel diversity for the
power-generation industry and increased Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funding
at the federal level. Our efforts have focused on informing our customers and the public about
energy issues, encouraging our customers to advocate solutions to elected officials and reinforcing
the value of

11

our brand and the services we provide.

Although we have been operating in a relatively low-interest-rate environment for both short- and
long-term debt financing during the past few years, the federal funds rate has steadily increased
and is the highest it has been in over four years. We anticipate that interest rates will continue
to rise, which could result in an increase in rates on our borrowings.

Part of our strategic plan is to manage our gas distribution business through sound rate and
regulatory initiatives, control of our operating costs and implementation of new technologies. We
are working to enhance the value and growth of our utility assets by good management of capital
spending, both for improvements for current customers and the pursuit of customer growth
opportunities in our service areas. We strive for quality customer service by investing in
systems, processes and people. We will continue to work with our state regulators to maintain fair
rates of return and balance the interests of our customers and shareholders.

Our strategic plan includes a focus on maintaining a debt-to-capitalization ratio within a range of
45 to 50%. We will continue to stress the importance of maintaining a strong balance sheet and
investment-grade credit ratings to support our operating and investment needs. We continually
monitor our level of short-term borrowings and secure short-term bank lines that meet our
short-term operating needs.

Results of Operations 

Operating Revenues

Operating revenues increased $240.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006, compared
with the similar period in 2005 primarily due to the following increases:

$261.3 million from increased commodity gas costs passed through to customers. 

$12.8 million from secondary market transactions, primarily due to increased commodity
gas costs. Secondary market transactions consist of off-system sales and capacity release
arrangements. 

$15.5 million related to the impact of rate design changes in North Carolina and South
Carolina effective November 1, 2005. 

$5.1 million net increase in North Carolina resulting from $13.4 million from the CUT
mechanism compared with $8.3 million from the WNA for the similar prior period. For
further discussion describing the evolution of the regulatory mechanisms effective November
1, 2005, see  Our Business  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations. 

These increases were offset by a decrease of $64 million resulting from a decrease in volumes
delivered of 5.6 million dekatherms, or an 8% decrease, primarily due to warmer weather and
continued customer conservation.

Cost of Gas

Cost of gas increased $234 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006, compared with the
similar period in 2005 primarily due to the following increases:

$261.3 million from increased commodity gas costs. 

12

$12.4 million from secondary market transactions. 

These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $51.3 million resulting from a decrease in
volumes delivered of 5.6 million dekatherms.

Under purchased gas adjustment (PGA) procedures in all three states, we revise rates periodically
without formal rate proceedings to reflect changes in the wholesale cost of gas. Charges to cost
of gas are based on the amount recoverable under approved rate schedules. The net of any over- or
under-recoveries of gas costs are added to or deducted from cost of gas and included in  Amounts
due from customers  or  Amounts due to customers  in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.

In North Carolina and South Carolina, recoveries of gas costs are subject to annual gas cost
recovery proceedings to determine the prudence of our gas purchases. We have been found prudent in
all such past proceedings.

Margin

Margin increased $6.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006, compared with the
similar period in 2005 primarily due to growth in the residential and commercial customer base and
the impact of changes in rate design and regulatory mechanisms effective November 1, 2005, as noted
above. These increases were offset by decreased consumption primarily due to warmer weather and
continued customer conservation. Implementation of the CUT has partially mitigated both these
factors in North Carolina.

Operations and Maintenance Expenses

Operations and maintenance expenses increased $3 million for the three months ended January 31,
2006, compared with the similar period in 2005 primarily due to the following increases:

$.8 million in employee benefits expense primarily due to increases in pension costs,
partially offset by decreases in postretirement health care and life insurance costs. 

$.8 million in rents and leases due to the new corporate office lease and
telecommunications costs. 

$.6 million in outside labor for the customer service contact center and for the move to
the new corporate office building. 

$.6 million in regulatory expense primarily due to fees to our state commissions that
are based on revenues. 

$.5 million in payroll costs due to an increase in the costs associated with customer
service and accrued long-term incentive plan liability. 

$.5 million in materials related to cancelled construction projects that were expensed. 

These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $.8 million in the provision for
uncollectibles. Effective November 1, 2005, the NCUC approved the recovery of all uncollected gas
costs through the gas cost deferred account. As a result, only the portion of accounts written off
relating to non-gas costs, or margin, is included in base rates and, accordingly, only this portion
is included in the provision for uncollectibles expense. A similar mechanism has been in place, on
an experimental basis, for our Tennessee operations since March 2004 whereby uncollected gas costs
in excess of, or less than, those allowed in base rates are recovered from, or refunded to,
customers through PGA procedures.

13

Depreciation

Depreciation expense increased $1.1 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006, compared
with the similar period in 2005 primarily due to increases in plant in service.

General
taxes and other income (expense) were comparable from quarter to quarter.

Utility Interest Charges

Utility interest charges increased $.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006,
compared with the similar period in 2005 primarily due to the following:

$1.8 million increase in interest on short-term debt due to higher balances outstanding
in the current period. See further discussion in  Financial Condition and Liquidity.  

$.8 million decrease in net interest expense on amounts due to/from customers due to
higher net receivables in 2005. 

Our Business 

Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc., which began operations in 1951, is an energy services company
primarily engaged in the distribution of natural gas to 990,000 residential, commercial and
industrial customers in portions of North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee, including 61,000
customers served by municipalities who are our wholesale customers. We are invested in joint
venture, energy-related businesses, including unregulated retail natural gas marketing, interstate
natural gas storage and intrastate natural gas transportation.

We continually assess the nature of our business and explore alternatives to traditional utility
regulation. Non-traditional ratemaking initiatives and market-based pricing of products and
services provide additional challenges and opportunities for us. We also regularly evaluate
opportunities for obtaining natural gas supplies from different production regions and supply
sources to maximize our natural gas portfolio flexibility and reliability, including the
diversification of our supply portfolio through pipeline capacity arrangements that access new
sources of supply and market-area storage and that diversify supply concentration away from the
Gulf Coast region. We have a firm transportation contract pending with Midwestern Gas Transmission
Company for 120,000 dekatherms per day of additional pipeline capacity that will provide access to
Canadian and Rocky Mountain gas supplies via the Chicago hub, primarily to serve our Tennessee
markets. The anticipated in-service date is November 2006. We have also executed an agreement
with Hardy Storage Company for market-area storage capacity in West Virginia with an anticipated
in-service date in 2007. We have a 50% equity interest in this project which is discussed in Note
10 to the consolidated financial statements in our Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005.

We have two reportable business segments, regulated utility and non-utility activities. For
further information on business segments, see Note 7 to the condensed consolidated financial
statements.

Our utility operations are regulated by the NCUC, the Public Service Commission of South Carolina
and the Tennessee Regulatory Authority as to rates, service area, adequacy of service, safety
standards, extensions and abandonment of facilities, accounting and depreciation. We are also
regulated by the NCUC as to the issuance of securities. We are also subject to or affected by various federal
regulations. These federal regulations include regulations that are particular to the natural gas
industry, such as regulations of the FERC that affect the availability of and the prices paid for
the interstate transportation

14

of natural gas, regulations of the Department of Transportation that
affect the construction, operation, maintenance, integrity and safety of natural gas distribution
systems and regulations of the Environmental Protection Agency relating to the use and release into
the environment of hazardous wastes. In addition, we are subject to numerous regulations, such as
those relating to employment practices, which are generally applicable to companies doing business
in the United States of America.

In the Carolinas, our service area is comprised of numerous cities, towns and communities including
Anderson, Greenville and Spartanburg in South Carolina and Charlotte, Salisbury, Greensboro,
Winston-Salem, High Point, Burlington, Hickory, Spruce Pine, Reidsville, Fayetteville, New Bern,
Wilmington, Tarboro, Elizabeth City, Rockingham and Goldsboro in North Carolina. In North
Carolina, we also provide wholesale natural gas service to Greenville, Monroe, Rocky Mount and
Wilson. In Tennessee, our service area is the metropolitan area of Nashville, including wholesale
natural gas service to Gallatin and Smyrna.

Our regulatory commissions approve rates and tariffs that are designed to give us the opportunity
to generate revenues to cover our gas and non-gas costs and to earn a fair rate of return for our
shareholders. Through October 31, 2005, we had WNA mechanisms in all three states that partially
offset the impact of unusually cold or warm weather on bills rendered during the months of November
through March for weather-sensitive customers. In North Carolina and Tennessee, adjustments are
made directly to the customer s bill. In South Carolina, the adjustments are calculated at the
individual customer level and recorded in a deferred account (regulatory asset or liability) for
subsequent collection from or refund to all customers in the class. The WNA formula calculates the
actual weather variance from normal, using 30 years of history, which results in an increase in
revenues when weather is warmer than normal and a decrease in revenues when weather is colder than
normal. The gas cost portion of our costs is recoverable through PGA procedures and is not
affected by the WNA. Effective November 1, 2005, the WNA was eliminated in North Carolina and
replaced with the CUT that provides for the recovery of our approved margin per customer
independent of weather or other usage and consumption patterns of residential and commercial
customers. The CUT tracks our margin earned monthly and will result in semi-annual rate
adjustments to refund any over-collection or recover any under-collection.

On January 3, 2006, the North Carolina Office of the Attorney General filed a notice of appeal
challenging the lawfulness of the NCUC s authorization and approval of the CUT. We believe the CUT
is lawful, just and reasonable and reflects good public policy, and we intend to vigorously defend
the NCUC s action authorizing and approving the CUT. We are unable to predict the outcome of an
appeal or the potential impact to our rates, charges or terms and conditions of service should the
NCUC order be reversed or remanded.

We invest in joint ventures to complement or supplement income from utility operations. If an
opportunity aligns with our overall business strategies, we analyze and evaluate the project with a
major factor being a projected rate of return greater than the returns allowed in our utility
operations, due to the higher risk of such projects. We participate in the governance of the
venture by having a management representative on the governing board of the venture. We monitor
actual performance against expectations. Decisions regarding exiting joint ventures are based on
many factors, including performance results and continued alignment with our business strategies.

Financial Condition and Liquidity 

We believe we have access to adequate resources to meet our needs for working capital, construction
expenditures, anticipated debt redemptions and dividend payments. These resources include net cash

15

flows from operating activities, access to capital markets, cash generated from our investments in
joint ventures and bank lines of credit.

Cash Flows from Operating Activities . The natural gas business is seasonal in nature.
Operating cash flows may fluctuate significantly during the year and from year to year due to
working capital changes within our utility and non-utility operations resulting from such factors
as weather, natural gas prices, collections from customers, natural gas purchases, gas inventory
storage activity and deferred gas cost recoveries. We rely on operating cash flows and short-term
bank borrowings to meet seasonal working capital needs. During our first and second quarters, we
generally experience overall positive cash flows from the sale of flowing gas and gas in storage
and the collection of amounts billed to customers during the peak heating season (November through
March). Cash requirements generally increase during the third and fourth quarters due to increases
in natural gas purchases for storage and decreases in receipts from customers.

During the peak heating season, our accounts payable increase to reflect amounts due to our natural
gas suppliers for commodity and pipeline capacity. The value of the gas can vary significantly
from period to period due to the volatility in the price of natural gas. Our natural gas costs and
amounts due to/from customers represent the difference between natural gas costs that we have paid
to suppliers and amounts that we have collected from customers. These natural gas costs can cause
cash flows to vary significantly from period to period.

Cash flows from operations are impacted by weather, which affects gas purchases and sales. Warmer
weather can lead to lower revenues from fewer volumes of natural gas sold or transported. Colder
weather can increase volumes sold to weather-sensitive customers, but may lead to conservation by
customers in order to reduce their consumption. Temperatures above normal can lead to reduced
operating cash flows, thereby increasing the need for short-term borrowings to meet current cash
requirements.

Net cash used in operating activities was $118.8 million and $17.6 million for the three months
ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The change was
primarily due to increases in
receivables, unbilled utility revenues and inventories, partially offset by an increase in trade payables, primarily related
to increases in gas costs.

With the higher gas costs experienced in the 2005-2006 winter heating season, more customers have
enrolled in our equal payment plan (EPP) to spread their gas bills over a twelve-month period. Net
receivables from EPP customers increased $28.9 million from October 31, 2005, to January 31, 2006.

During the three months ended January 31, 2006, we continued to purchase flowing gas to serve our
customers rather than fully utilize our storage withdrawal capabilities because of
warmer-than-normal weather and uncertainties early in the heating season. Our gas in storage
increased from $151.9 million as of October 31, 2005, to $188.8 million as of January 31, 2006.

The financial condition of the natural gas marketers and pipelines that supply and deliver natural
gas to our distribution system can increase our exposure to supply and price fluctuations. We
believe our risk exposure to the financial condition of the marketers and pipelines is minimal
based on our receipt of the products and services prior to payment and the availability of other
marketers of natural gas to meet our firm supply needs if necessary.

The regulated utility competes with other energy products, such as electricity and propane, in the
residential and commercial customer markets. The most significant product competition is with

16

electricity for space heating, water heating and cooking. Numerous factors can influence customer
demand for natural gas, such as price volatility, the availability of natural gas in relation to
other energy forms, general economic conditions, weather, energy conservation, the ability to
convert from natural gas to other energy sources, and legislation. Increases in the price of
natural gas can negatively impact our competitive position by decreasing the price benefits of
natural gas to the consumer. This can impact our cash needs if customer growth slows, resulting in
reduced capital expenditures, or if customers conserve, resulting in reduced gas purchases and
customer billings.

In the industrial market, many of our customers are capable of burning a fuel other than natural
gas, fuel oil being the most significant competing energy alternative. Our ability to maintain
industrial market share is largely dependent on price. The relationship between supply and demand
has the greatest impact on the price of natural gas. With a tighter balance between domestic
supply and demand, the cost of natural gas from non-domestic sources may play a greater role in
establishing the future market price of natural gas. The price of oil depends upon a number of
factors beyond our control, including the relationship between supply and demand and the policies
of foreign and domestic governments. Our liquidity could be impacted, either positively or
negatively, as a result of alternate fuel decisions made by industrial customers.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities . Net cash used in investing activities was $30.2
million and $26 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net
cash used in investing activities was primarily for utility construction expenditures. Gross
utility construction expenditures for the three months ended January 31, 2006, were $51.1 million
($47.4 million net of the allowance for funds used during construction, contributions in aid of
construction and bond reimbursements).

During the three months ended January 31, 2006, the restrictions on cash totaling $13.1 million
were removed in connection with implementing the NCUC order in the general rate proceeding
discussed in Note 4 to the condensed consolidated financial statements. As ordered by the NCUC,
such cash had been held in an expansion fund to extend natural gas service to unserved areas of the
state.

We have a substantial capital expansion program for construction of distribution facilities,
purchase of equipment and other general improvements. This program primarily supports the growth
in our customer base. We have budgeted $181.2 million for utility construction expenditures for
fiscal 2006; however, we are not contractually obligated to expend capital until the work is
completed. Due to projected growth in our service areas, significant utility construction
expenditures are expected to continue and are a part of our long-range forecasts that are prepared
at least annually and typically cover a forecast period of five years.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities . Net cash provided by financing activities was $171.6
million and $63.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Funds are primarily provided from bank borrowings and the issuance of common stock through dividend
reinvestment and employee stock plans, net of purchases under the common stock repurchase program.
We sell common stock and long-term debt to cover cash requirements when market and other conditions
favor such long-term financing.

As of January 31, 2006, we had committed bank lines of credit totaling $250 million, for which we
pay a maximum annual fee of $.3 million, and additional uncommitted lines of credit totaling $250 million
on a no fee and as needed, if available, basis. Outstanding short-term borrowings as of January
31, 2006, totaled $350 million, with $250 million under the committed lines and $100 million under
the uncommitted lines. During the three months ended January 31, 2006, short-term borrowings
ranged from

17

$115 million to $378.5 million, and interest rates ranged from 4.07% to 4.89%. The
lines of credit expire in April 2006 and we anticipate replacing the lines with a syndicated
five-year facility. The syndicated facility is expected to have an initial committed line of $350
million with the ability to expand it to $600 million.

As of January 31, 2006, we had a line of credit for letters of credit of $1.5 million, of which
$1.2 million were issued and outstanding. These letters of credit are used to guarantee claims
from self-insurance under our general liability policies.

The level of short-term borrowings can vary significantly due to changes in the wholesale prices of
natural gas and to the level of purchases of natural gas supplies to serve customer demand and for
storage. Short-term debt may increase when wholesale prices for natural gas increase because we
must pay suppliers for the gas before we collect our costs from customers through their monthly
bills. Gas prices could continue to increase and fluctuate. If wholesale gas prices remain high,
we may incur more short-term debt to pay for natural gas supplies and other operating costs since
collections from customers could be slower and some customers may not be able to pay their gas
bills on a timely basis.

During the three months ended January 31, 2006, we issued $4.9 million of common stock through
dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plans. Under the Common Stock Open Market Purchase
Program, we paid $7.2 million during the three months ended January 31, 2006, for .3 million shares
of common stock that are available for reissuance to these plans.

In our fiscal second quarter in 2006, we intend to enter into an accelerated share repurchase
program where we will repurchase and subsequently retire approximately four million shares of
common stock over a four-year period. The accelerated share repurchase program will be in addition
to shares that are repurchased on a normal basis through the open market program.

We have paid quarterly dividends on our common stock since 1956. The amount of cash dividends that
may be paid is restricted by provisions contained in certain note agreements under which long-term
debt was issued. As of January 31, 2006, none of our retained earnings was restricted. On March
3, 2006, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend on common stock of $.24 per share,
payable April 13, 2006, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 24.

As of January 31, 2006, our capitalization, including current maturities of long-term debt,
consisted of 41% in long-term debt and 59% in common equity. Our long-term targeted capitalization
ratio is 45-50% in long-term debt and 50-55% in common equity.

In July 2006, we expect to make the scheduled payment of $35 million on the 9.44% senior notes.
Depending upon our needs for long-term financing and current market conditions, we expect to issue
approximately $200 million of long-term debt in our fiscal third quarter in 2006 under a shelf
registration which has a remaining balance of $309.4 million.

As of January 31, 2006, all of our long-term debt was unsecured. Our long-term debt is rated  A 
by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services and  A3  by Moody s Investors. Credit ratings impact our
ability to obtain short-term and long-term financing and the cost of such financings.

We are subject to default provisions related to our long-term debt and short-term bank lines of
credit. Failure to satisfy any of the default provisions would result in total outstanding issues
of debt becoming due. There are cross-default provisions in all our debt agreements. As of
January 31, 2006, we are in

18

compliance with all default provisions.

Estimated Future Contractual Obligations 

During the three months ended January 31, 2006, there were no material changes to our estimated
future contractual obligations that were disclosed in our Form 10-K for the year ended October 31,
2005, in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements 

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements other than operating leases that were discussed in Note 7
to the consolidated financial statements in our Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

We prepare the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. We make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results may differ
significantly from these estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical
experience, where applicable, and other relevant factors that we believe are reasonable under the
circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate estimates and assumptions and make adjustments in
subsequent periods to reflect more current information if we determine that modifications in
assumptions and estimates are warranted.

Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if it requires assumptions to be made
that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made and changes in the estimate or a different
estimate that could have been used would have had a material impact on our financial condition or
results of operations. We consider regulatory accounting, revenue recognition, goodwill and
pension and postretirement benefits to be our critical accounting estimates. Management is
responsible for the selection of the critical accounting estimates presented in our Form 10-K for
the year ended October 31, 2005, in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations.  Management has discussed these critical accounting estimates with the
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. There have been no changes in our critical accounting
policies and estimates since October 31, 2005.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  (Statement 123R).
Statement 123R requires entities to adopt the fair value method of accounting for stock-based
plans. The fair value method requires the amortization of the fair value of stock-based
compensation as determined at the date of grant over the related vesting period. Under Statement
123R, most employee stock purchase plans that offer a discount of greater than 5% are considered
compensatory. We adopted Statement 123R on November 1, 2005, and amended our employee stock
purchase plan to lower the discount from 10% to 5%. The adoption of Statement 123R did not have
any effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations  (FIN 47), to clarify the term  conditional asset retirement  as used in SFAS No. 143,
 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.  FIN 47 requires that a liability be recognized for
the fair

19

value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred, if the fair value of the
liability can be reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing or method of settlement of a
conditional asset retirement obligation would be factored into the measurement of the liability
when sufficient information exists. This interpretation is effective no later than the end of
fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. Accordingly, we will adopt FIN 47 no later than our
fourth fiscal quarter in 2006. We are currently assessing the impact FIN 47 may have on our
consolidated balance sheet; however, we believe the adoption of FIN 47 will not have any impact on
our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Recent Developments 

At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on March 3, 2006, shareholders approved an amendment to
Article 3 of our Articles of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common
stock from 100 million to 200 million shares. In addition, shareholders approved the Incentive
Compensation Plan effective as of November 1, 2005. The plan provides for short-term and long-term
incentive compensation payable in cash, stock options, restricted stock and other stock-based
awards.

Forward-Looking Statements 

Documents we file with the SEC may contain forward-looking statements. In addition, our senior
management and other authorized spokespersons may make forward-looking statements in print or
orally to analysts, investors, the media and others. These statements are based on management s
current expectations and information currently available and are believed to be reasonable and are
made in good faith. However, the forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the statements.
Factors that may make the actual results differ from anticipated results include, but are not
limited to:

Regulatory issues, including those that affect allowed rates of return, terms and
conditions of service, rate structures and financings. We monitor our effectiveness in
achieving the allowed rates of return and initiate rate proceedings or operating changes
as needed. In addition, we purchase natural gas transportation and storage services from
interstate and intrastate pipeline companies whose rates and services are regulated. 

Residential, commercial and industrial growth in our service areas. The ability to
grow our customer base and the pace of that growth are impacted by general business and
economic conditions such as interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in the capital markets
and the overall strength of the economy in our service areas and the country, and
fluctuations in the wholesale prices of natural gas and competitive energy sources. 

Deregulation, regulatory restructuring and competition in the energy industry. We face
competition from electric companies and energy marketing and trading companies and we
expect this highly competitive environment to continue. We must be able to adapt to the
changing environments and the competition. 

The potential loss of large-volume industrial customers to alternate fuels or to
bypass, or the shift by such customers to special competitive contracts at lower per-unit
margins. 

Regulatory issues, customer growth, deregulation, economic and capital market
conditions, the cost and availability of natural gas and weather conditions can impact our
ability to meet internal performance goals. 

The capital-intensive nature of our business. In order to maintain growth, we must add
to our natural gas distribution system each year. The cost of this construction may be
affected by the cost of obtaining governmental approvals, compliance with federal and state pipeline safety
and integrity regulations, development project delays and changes in project costs.
Weather, general 

20

economic conditions and the cost of funds to finance our capital projects can
materially alter the cost of a project. Our internally generated cash flows are not
adequate to finance the full cost of this construction. As a result, we rely on access to
both short-term and long-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for
capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations. 

Changes in the availability and cost of natural gas. To meet firm customer
requirements, we must acquire sufficient gas supplies and pipeline capacity to ensure
delivery to our distribution system while also ensuring that our supply and capacity
contracts allow us to remain competitive. Natural gas is an unregulated commodity market
subject to supply and demand and price volatility. Producers, marketers and pipelines are
subject to operating and financial risks associated with exploring, drilling, producing,
gathering, marketing and transporting natural gas and have risks that increase our
exposure to supply and price fluctuations. 

Impact of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Key components of the bill include provisions
that encourage fuel diversity in the generation of electricity, provide incentives
promoting energy efficiency and innovative technology, allow an inventory of energy
reserves in the Outer Continental Shelf and support Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) imports
and improved leasing and permitting processes in the development of existing supply
fields. 

Changes in weather conditions. Weather conditions and other natural phenomena can have
a material impact on our earnings. Severe weather conditions, including destructive
weather patterns such as hurricanes, can impact our suppliers and the pipelines that
deliver gas to our distribution system. Weather conditions directly influence the supply
of, demand for and the cost of natural gas. 

Changes in environmental, safety and system integrity regulations and the cost of
compliance. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulations. Compliance
with such regulations may result in increased capital or operating costs. 

Ability to retain and attract professional and technical employees. To provide quality
service to our customers and meet regulatory requirements, we are dependent on our ability
to recruit, train, motivate and retain qualified employees. 

Changes in accounting regulations and practices. We are subject to accounting
regulations and practices issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies. New
accounting standards may be issued that could change the way we record revenues, expenses,
assets and liabilities. Future changes in accounting standards could affect our reported
earnings or increase our liabilities. 

Earnings from our equity method investments. We invest in companies that have risks
that are inherent in their businesses and we assume such risks as an equity investor. 

All of these factors are difficult to predict and some of them are beyond our control. For these
reasons, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements when making investment decisions.
When used in our documents or oral presentations, the words  expect,   believe,   project, 
 anticipate,   intend,   should,   could,   will,   assume,   can,   estimate,   forecast, 
 future,   indicate,   outlook,   plan,   predict,   seek,   target,   would  and variations of
such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Factors relating to regulation and management also may be described or incorporated by reference in
future filings with the SEC. Some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ have been
described above. Others may be described elsewhere in this report. There may also be other
factors besides those described above that could cause actual conditions, events or results to
differ from those in the forward-looking statements.

21

Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any
obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement either as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise except as required by applicable laws and regulations. Please reference
our web site at www.piedmontng.com for current information. Our reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q
and Form 8-K and amendments to these reports are available at no cost on our web site as soon as
reasonably practicable after the report is filed with or furnished to the SEC.

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

We hold all financial instruments discussed in this item for purposes other than trading. We are
potentially exposed to market risk due to changes in interest rates and the cost of gas. Our
exposure to interest rate changes relates primarily to short-term debt. We are exposed to interest
rate changes to long-term debt when we are in the market to issue long-term debt. As of January
31, 2006, all of our long-term debt was at fixed rates. Exposure to gas cost variations relates to
the wholesale supply, demand and price of natural gas.

Interest Rate Risk

We have short-term borrowing arrangements to provide working capital and general corporate funds.
The level of borrowings under such arrangements varies from period to period depending upon many
factors, including our investments in capital projects. Future short-term interest expense and
payments will be impacted by both short-term interest rates and borrowing levels.

As of January 31, 2006, we had $350 million of short-term debt outstanding. The carrying amount of
our short-term debt approximates fair value. The following table reflects our short-term
borrowings during the three months ended January 31, 2006.

As of January 31, 2006, all of our long-term debt was at fixed interest rates and, therefore,
not subject to interest rate risk.

Commodity Price Risk

In the normal course of business, we utilize exchange-traded contracts of various duration for the
forward sale and purchase of a portion of our natural gas requirements. We manage our gas supply
costs through a portfolio of short- and long-term procurement contracts with various suppliers.
Due to cost-based rate regulation in our utility operations, we have limited financial exposure to
changes in commodity prices as substantially all changes in purchased gas costs and the costs of
hedging our gas supplies are passed on to customers through PGA procedures.

Additional information concerning market risk is set forth in  Financial Condition and Liquidity 
in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 2 of
this Form 10-Q.

22

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 

Our management, including the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act as of the end of the
period covered by this Form 10-Q. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-Q, our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective in that they provide reasonable assurances that
the information we are required to disclose in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act
is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods required by the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms.

We routinely review our internal control over financial reporting and from time to time make
changes intended to enhance the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.
There have been no changes to our internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined
in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act during the first quarter of fiscal 2006
that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting.

23

Part II. Other Information

Item 1. Legal Proceedings 

We have only routine litigation in the normal course of business and do not expect the outcomes to
have any material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

c) Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

The following table provides information with respect to purchases of common stock under the
Common Stock Open Market Purchase Program during the three months ended January 31, 2006.

* 
       
     Reflects increase of seven million shares explained below. 

The Common Stock Open Market Purchase Program was announced on June 4, 2004, to purchase up to
three million shares of common stock for reissuance under our dividend reinvestment, stock purchase
and incentive compensation plans. On December 16, 2005, the Board of Directors approved an
increase in the number of shares in this program from three million to six million to reflect the
two-for-one stock split in 2004. The Board also approved the purchase of up to four million
additional shares of common stock and amended the program to provide for purchases to maintain our
debt-to-equity capitalization ratios at target levels. These combined actions increased the total
authorized share repurchases from three million to ten million shares.

The amount of cash dividends that may be paid is restricted by provisions contained in certain note
agreements under which long-term debt was issued. As of January 31, 2006, none of our retained
earnings was restricted.

Item 6. Exhibits 

24

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. 

(Registrant) 

Date March 13, 2006

/s/ David J. Dzuricky 

David J. Dzuricky 

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial Officer) 

Date March 13, 2006

/s/ Barry L. Guy 

Barry L. Guy 

Vice President and Controller 

(Principal Accounting Officer) 

25

<EX-31.1>
 2
 g00107exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Thomas E. Skains, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Piedmont Natural Gas Company,
Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on
such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize
and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.

Date:  March 13, 2006  
     /s/ Thomas E. Skains

Thomas E. Skains  

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief 
  Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer)  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 g00107exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, David J. Dzuricky, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Piedmont Natural Gas Company,
Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on
such evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.

Date:  March 13, 2006  
     /s/ David J. Dzuricky

David J. Dzuricky  

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 g00107exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

Exhibit 32.1

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY 
ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. (the  Company ), on
Form 10-Q for the period ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Thomas E. Skains, Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to  
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:

1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date:  March 13, 2006  
     /s/ Thomas E. Skains

Thomas E. Skains  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 g00107exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2

EX-32.2 

Exhibit 32.2

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY 
ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. (the  Company ), on
Form 10-Q for the period ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, David J. Dzuricky, Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to  
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:

1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date:  March 13, 2006  
     /s/ David J. Dzuricky

David J. Dzuricky  

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32.2>

