<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060324_10-Q_edgar_data_1048911_0001104659-06-019129_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2023549</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>109926</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1270407</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>37</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-019129.hdr.sgml : 20060324
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060324153232
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-019129
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060228
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060324
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060324

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FEDEX CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001048911
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	AIR COURIER SERVICES [4513]
		IRS NUMBER:				621721435
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0531

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-15829
		FILM NUMBER:		06709179

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		942 SOUTH SHADY GROVE ROAD
		CITY:			MEMPHIS
		STATE:			TN
		ZIP:			38120-
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9018187500

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		942 SOUTH SHADY GROVE ROAD
		CITY:			MEMPHIS
		STATE:			TN
		ZIP:			38120-

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FDX CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19971103

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 M5VLOiWoei+CLvWDZaT0nglo7+9sofrul987fLAc/I5bGv3mInanydXI+BQG4/Zs
 J+SGEj5DRJFj64m4hkyGZw==

 0001104659-06-019129.txt : 20060324

10-Q
 1
 a06-7272_110q.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D)

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-Q   

FEDEX CORPORATION   

  (Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)  

Delaware   
  (State or other jurisdiction of 
  incorporation or organization) 

62-1721435   
  (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 

942 South Shady Grove Road 
  Memphis, Tennessee   
  (Address of principal executive offices) 

38120   
  (ZIP Code) 

(901) 818-7500   

  (Registrant s telephone
number, including area code)  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   x    No   o  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See
definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  

  Large accelerated
filer   x     Accelerated
filer  o     Non-accelerated
filer  o  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes   o    No   x  

  Indicate
the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common
stock, as of the latest practicable date.  

FEDEX CORPORATION 
INDEX   

     PART I.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

2  

FEDEX
CORPORATION   

   CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   

   (IN
MILLIONS)   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.     3     

FEDEX CORPORATION   

   CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   

   (IN
MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.     4  

FEDEX
CORPORATION 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
(UNAUDITED) 
(IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.     5  

FEDEX CORPORATION   

   CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

   (UNAUDITED)   

   (IN
MILLIONS)   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.     6  

FEDEX CORPORATION  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (UNAUDITED)   

    (1)    General   

   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  .     These
interim financial statements of FedEx Corporation ( FedEx ) have been prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States for interim financial information, the instructions to Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X, and
should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended May 31, 2005. Accordingly, significant accounting
policies and other disclosures normally provided have been omitted since such
items are disclosed therein. 

  In the opinion of management, the accompanying
unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments
(including normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly our
financial position as of February 28, 2006 and the results of our
operations for the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28, 2006
and 2005 and our cash flows for the nine-month periods ended February 28,
2006 and 2005. Operating results for the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28,
2006 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the
year ending May 31, 2006.  

  Except as otherwise specified, references to years
indicate our fiscal year ending May 31, 2006 or ended May 31 of the
year referenced and comparisons are to the corresponding period of the prior
year.  

  Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to
conform to the current period s presentation.  

   GUARANTEES  .     FedEx s
publicly held debt is guaranteed by our subsidiaries. The guarantees are full
and unconditional, joint and several, and any subsidiaries that are not
guarantors are minor as defined by Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC )
regulations. FedEx, as the parent company issuer of this debt, has no
independent assets or operations. There are no significant restrictions on our
ability or the ability of any guarantor to obtain funds from its subsidiaries
by such means as a dividend or loan. 

  In conjunction with certain transactions, primarily
the lease, sale or purchase of operating assets or services in the ordinary
course of business, we sometimes provide routine indemnifications (e.g.,
environmental, fuel, tax and software infringement), the terms of which range
in duration and are often not limited. The fair market value of these
indemnifications is not believed to be significant.  

   EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ARRANGEMENTS  .     The
pilots of FedEx Express, which represent a small number of FedEx Express total
employees, are employed under a collective bargaining agreement that became
amendable on May 31, 2004. In accordance with applicable labor law, we
will continue to operate under our current agreement while we negotiate with
our pilots. Contract negotiations with the pilots  union began in March 2004.
These negotiations are ongoing and are being mediated through the National
Mediation Board. We cannot estimate the financial impact, if any, the results
of these negotiations may have on our future results of operations. 

   DIVIDENDS DECLARED PER COMMON SHARE  .     On
February 17, 2006, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.08 per
share of common stock. The dividend is payable on April 3, 2006 to
stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 13, 2006. Each
quarterly dividend payment is subject to review and approval by our Board of
Directors, and we evaluate our dividend payment amount on an annual basis at
the end of each fiscal year. 

   LEASE ADJUSTMENT  .     During
the first quarter of 2006, a one-time, non-cash charge of $79 million ($49
million after tax or $0.16 per diluted share before variable compensation
effects) was recorded, which represented the impact on prior years, to adjust
the accounting for certain facility leases, predominantly at  

7     

FEDEX CORPORATION  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  (UNAUDITED)   

FedEx Express. The charge related primarily to rent
escalations in on-airport facility leases. Because the amounts involved were
not material to our financial statements in any individual prior period and the
cumulative amount is not expected to be material to 2006 results, we recorded
the cumulative adjustment in the first quarter, which increased operating
expenses by $79 million.  

   BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS  .     On January 24, 2006, FedEx
Express entered into an agreement with Tianjin Datian W. Group Co., Ltd.
( DTW Group ) to acquire DTW Group s 50% share of the FedEx-DTW International
Priority express joint venture ( FedEx-DTW ) and DTW Group s domestic express
network in China for approximately $400 million in cash. This acquisition will
convert our joint venture with DTW Group, formed in 1999 and currently
accounted for under the equity method, into a wholly owned subsidiary and
increase our presence in China in the international and domestic express
businesses. The acquisition is expected to be completed in the first half of
2007. The financial results of this transaction will be included in the FedEx
Express segment from the date of acquisition. 

  During the second quarter of 2005, we acquired the
assets and assumed certain liabilities of FedEx SmartPost, a division of a
privately held company, for $122 million in cash. FedEx SmartPost, a leading
small-parcel consolidator, expanded our portfolio of services by allowing us to
offer a cost effective option for delivering low-weight, less time-sensitive
packages to U.S. residences through the U.S. Postal Service. The financial
results of FedEx SmartPost are included in the FedEx Ground segment from the
date of its acquisition and are not material to reported or pro forma results
of operations of any period.  

   STOCK COMPENSATION  .     We
currently apply Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. ( APB ) 25,  Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees,  and its related interpretations to measure
compensation expense for stock-based compensation plans. As a result, no
compensation expense is recorded for stock options when the exercise price is
equal to or greater than the market price of our common stock at the date of
grant. For awards of restricted stock and to determine the pro forma effects of
stock options set forth below, we recognize the fair value of the awards ratably
over their explicit service period. 

8     

FEDEX CORPORATION  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  (UNAUDITED)   

If
compensation cost for stock-based compensation plans had been determined under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. ( SFAS ) 123,  Accounting
for Stock Based Compensation,  stock option compensation expense, pro forma net
income and basic and diluted earnings per common share, assuming all options
granted in 1996 and thereafter were valued at fair value using the
Black-Scholes method, would have been as follows (in millions, except per share
amounts):  

Following
is a table of the key weighted-average assumptions used in the valuation
calculations for the options and a discussion of our methodology for developing
each of the assumptions used in the valuation model:  

Expected Lives.      This
is the period of time over which the options granted are expected to remain
outstanding. Generally, options granted have a maximum term of ten years. We
examine actual stock option exercises to determine the expected life of the
options. An increase in the expected
term will increase compensation expense. 

9  

FEDEX CORPORATION  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  (UNAUDITED)   

    Expected Volatility.        Actual
changes in the market value of our stock are used to calculate the volatility
assumption. We calculate daily market value changes from the date of grant over
a past period equal to the expected life of the options to determine volatility.
An increase in the expected volatility will increase compensation expense. 

    Risk-Free Interest Rate.      This
is the U.S. Treasury Strip rate posted at the date of grant having a term equal
to the expected life of the option. An increase in the risk-free interest rate
will increase compensation expense. 

    Dividend Yield.      This
is the annual rate of dividends per share over the exercise price of the option.
An increase in the dividend yield will decrease compensation expense. 

    Forfeiture Rate.      This
is the estimated percentage of options granted that are expected to be
forfeited or canceled before becoming fully vested. This percentage is derived
from historical experience. An increase in the forfeiture rate will decrease
compensation expense. Our forfeiture rate is approximately 8%. 

  The
following table summarizes activity associated with our stock option plans for
the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28, 2006:  

The weighted-average Black-Scholes value of the grants
under the assumptions indicated above for the three- and nine-month periods
ended February 28, 2006 was $28.48 and $25.65, respectively.  

  Total equity compensation shares outstanding or
available for grant at February 28, 2006 represented 8.3% of total
outstanding common and equity compensation shares and equity compensation
shares available for grant.  

    NEW ACCOUNTING
PRONOUNCEMENTS.      In
December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued
SFAS 123R,  Share-Based Payment.   SFAS
123R is a revision of SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25. The new standard requires
companies to record compensation expense for stock-based awards using a fair
value method and is effective for annual periods beginning after June 15,
2005 (effective in the first quarter of 2007 for FedEx). Compensation expense
will be recorded over the requisite service period, which is typically the
vesting period of the award. We plan to adopt this standard using the modified
prospective method. 

  The impact of the adoption of SFAS 123R cannot be
predicted at this time because it will depend on levels of share-based payments
granted in the future, the assumptions and the fair value model used to value
those future grants, and the market value of our common stock. However, we
anticipate that the impact of SFAS 123R will approximate the pro forma results
under SFAS 123 presented above.  

10     

FEDEX CORPORATION  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  (UNAUDITED)   

In March 2005,
the FASB issued Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. ( FIN )
47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an Interpretation
of FASB Statement No. 143.  FIN 47 clarifies that liabilities associated
with asset retirement obligations for which the timing or settlement method is
conditional upon future events should be recorded at fair value as soon as fair
value is reasonably estimable. FIN 47 also provides guidance on the information
required to reasonably estimate the fair value of the liability. We will adopt
FIN 47 in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the adoption will not have a material
impact on our financial position or results of operations for 2006.  

  (2)    Comprehensive
Income   

  The
following table provides a reconciliation of net income reported in our
financial statements to comprehensive income (in millions):  

(3)    Financing
Arrangements   

  From time to time, we finance certain operating and
investing activities, including acquisitions, through borrowings under our $1.0
billion revolving credit facility or the issuance of commercial paper. In July 2005,
we executed a new $1.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility, which
replaced and consolidated our prior revolving credit facilities. Borrowings
under the credit facility will bear interest at short-term interest rates
(based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), the Prime Rate or the
Federal Funds Rate) plus a margin dependent upon our senior unsecured long-term
debt ratings.  

  Our commercial paper program is backed by unused
commitments under the revolving credit facility and borrowings under the
program reduce the amount available under the credit facility. At February 28,
2006, no commercial paper borrowings were outstanding and the entire amount
under the credit facility was available.  The revolving credit agreement contains certain covenants and
restrictions, none of which are expected to significantly affect our
operations. 

11     

FEDEX CORPORATION  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  (UNAUDITED)   

(4)    Computation
of Earnings Per Share   

  The
following table provides the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per
common share (in millions, except per share amounts):  

(5)    Employee Benefit Plans   

   We sponsor defined benefit pension plans covering a
majority of our employees. The largest plan covers certain U.S. employees  age
21 and over, with at least one year of service. Certain of our subsidiaries
offer medical, dental and vision coverage to eligible U.S. retirees and their
eligible dependents. Net periodic benefit cost of the pension and
postretirement healthcare plans was as follows (in millions):  

During the nine months of 2006 and 2005, we made
voluntary, tax deductible contributions to our principal U.S. domestic pension
plans of $456 million and $460 million, respectively.  

12     

FEDEX CORPORATION  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  (UNAUDITED)   

(6)    Business
Segment Information   

  We provide a broad portfolio of transportation,
e-commerce and business services through operating companies that compete
collectively and are managed collaboratively under the respected FedEx brands. Our
operations are primarily represented by Federal Express Corporation ( FedEx
Express ), the world s largest express transportation company; FedEx Ground
Package System, Inc. ( FedEx Ground ), a leading provider of small-package
ground delivery services; FedEx Freight Corporation ( FedEx Freight ), a
leading U.S. provider of regional less-than-truckload ( LTL ) freight services;
and FedEx Kinko s Office and Print Services, Inc. ( FedEx Kinko s ), a
leading provider of document solutions and business services. These businesses
form the core of our reportable segments. Management evaluates segment
financial performance based on operating income.  

  FedEx Corporate Services, Inc. ( FedEx Services )
provides customer-facing sales, marketing and information technology support,
primarily for FedEx Express and FedEx Ground. The costs for these activities
are allocated based on metrics such as relative revenues or estimated services
provided. We also allocate costs for administrative services provided between
operating companies and certain other costs such as costs associated with
services received for general corporate oversight, including executive officers
and certain legal and finance functions. We believe these allocations
approximate the cost of providing these functions.  

  In addition, certain FedEx
operating companies provide transportation and related services for other FedEx
companies outside their reportable segment. Billings for such services are
based on negotiated rates, which we believe approximate fair value, and are
reflected as revenues of the billing segment. FedEx Kinko s segment revenues
include package acceptance revenue, which represents the fee received by FedEx
Kinko s from FedEx Express and FedEx Ground for accepting and handling packages
at FedEx Kinko s locations on behalf of these operating companies. Package
acceptance revenue does not include the external revenue associated with the
actual shipments. All shipment revenues are reflected in the segment performing
the transportation services. Intersegment revenues and expenses are eliminated
in the consolidated results but are not separately identified in the following
segment information as the amounts are not material.  

  Our
reportable segments include the following businesses:  

FedEx Express Segment   

FedEx Express (express transportation)  

FedEx Trade Networks (global trade services)  

FedEx
  Ground Segment   

FedEx Ground
  (small-package ground delivery)  

FedEx SmartPost (small-parcel consolidator)  

FedEx Supply Chain Services (contract logistics)  

FedEx Freight Segment   

FedEx Freight (LTL
  freight transportation)  

FedEx Custom Critical (time-critical transportation)  

Caribbean Transportation Services (airfreight
  forwarding)  

FedEx
  Kinko s Segment   

FedEx Kinko s (document
  solutions and business services)  

13     

FEDEX CORPORATION  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  (UNAUDITED)   

The
following table provides a reconciliation of reportable segment revenues and
operating income to our consolidated financial statement totals (in millions):  

(1)         The
first nine months of 2006 include a $75 million (before variable compensation
effects) one-time, non-cash charge to adjust the accounting for certain
facility leases.  

  (2)         The first nine months of
2005 include $48 million related to an Airline Stabilization Act charge.  

  (7)    Commitments   

  As of February 28,
2006, our purchase commitments for the remainder of 2006 and annually
thereafter under various contracts were as follows (in millions):  

(1)              Primarily aircraft modifications.  

  (2)              Primarily vehicles, facilities, computers,
printing and other equipment and advertising and promotions contracts.  

14  

FEDEX CORPORATION  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  (UNAUDITED)   

  The amounts reflected in the table above for purchase
commitments represent non-cancelable agreements to purchase goods or
services. Commitments to purchase aircraft in passenger configuration do
not include the attendant costs to modify these aircraft for cargo transport
unless we have entered into non-cancelable commitments to modify such aircraft.
Open purchase orders that are cancelable are not considered unconditional
purchase obligations and therefore are not included in the table above.  

  FedEx
Express is committed to purchase certain aircraft. Deposits and progress
payments of $31 million have been made toward these purchases and other planned
aircraft-related transactions. In addition, we have committed to modify our
DC10 aircraft for passenger-to-freighter and two-man cockpit configurations.  Future payments related to these activities
are included in the table above. Aircraft and aircraft-related contracts are
subject to price escalations. The following table is a summary of our aircraft
purchase commitments as of February 28, 2006 with the year of expected
delivery by type:  

A
summary of future minimum lease payments under capital leases at February 28,
2006 is as follows   (in
millions):  

15     

FEDEX CORPORATION  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  (UNAUDITED)   

A
summary of future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases
with an initial or remaining term in excess of one year at February 28,
2006 is as follows (in millions):  

While certain of our lease agreements contain
covenants governing the use of the leased assets or require us to maintain
certain levels of insurance, none of our lease agreements include material
financial covenants or limitations.  

  FedEx Express makes
payments under certain leveraged operating leases that are sufficient to pay
principal and interest on certain pass-through certificates. The pass-through
certificates are not direct obligations of, or guaranteed by, FedEx or FedEx
Express.  

  (8)              Contingencies  

   Wage-and-Hour.      We
are a defendant in a number of lawsuits filed in federal or California state
courts containing various class-action allegations under federal or California
wage-and-hour laws. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits are employees of FedEx
operating companies who allege, among other things, that they were forced to
work  off the clock  and were not provided work breaks or other benefits. The
plaintiffs generally seek unspecified monetary damages, injunctive relief, or
both. 

  To date, one of these wage-and-hour cases,   Foster v. FedEx Express  , has been
certified as a class action. The plaintiffs in   Foster  
represent a class of hourly FedEx Express employees in California from October 14,
1998 to present. The plaintiffs allege that hourly employees are routinely
required to work  off the clock  and are not paid for this additional work. The
court issued a ruling in December 2004 granting class certification on all
issues. In February 2006, the parties reached a settlement that will be
presented to the court for approval. FedEx Express continues to deny liability,
but entered into the settlement to avoid the cost and uncertainty of further
litigation. The amount of the proposed settlement was accrued at February 28,
2006 and is not material to FedEx.  

  With respect to the other wage-and-hour cases, we have
denied any liability and intend to vigorously defend ourselves. Given the
nature and preliminary status of these other wage-and-hour claims, we cannot
yet determine the amount or a reasonable range of potential loss in these other
matters, if any.  

   Race Discrimination.      On
September 28, 2005, a California federal district court granted class
certification in   Satchell v. FedEx Express  ,
a lawsuit alleging discrimination by FedEx Express in the Western region of the
United States against certain current and former minority employees in pay and
promotion. The district court s ruling on class certification is not a decision
on the merits of the plaintiffs  claim and does not address whether we will be
held liable. Trial is currently scheduled for February 2007. We have  

16     

FEDEX CORPORATION  NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  (UNAUDITED)   

denied any liability and intend to vigorously defend
ourselves in this case. Given the nature and preliminary status of the claim,
we cannot yet determine the amount or a reasonable range of potential loss in
this matter, if any. It is reasonably possible, however, that we could incur a
material loss as this case develops.  

   Independent Contractor.      FedEx
Ground is involved in numerous purported class-action lawsuits and other
proceedings involving various challenges to the company s independent
contractor model. These matters include   Estrada
v. FedEx Ground  , a class action involving single work area
contractors that is pending in California state court. Although the trial court
has granted some of the plaintiffs  claims for relief in Estrada ($18 million,
inclusive of attorney s fees, plus equitable relief), we expect to prevail on
appeal. Adverse determinations in these matters could, among other things,
entitle certain of our contractors to the reimbursement of certain expenses and
to the benefit of wage-and-hour laws and result in employment and withholding
tax liability for FedEx Ground. On August 10, 2005, the Judicial Panel on
Multi-District Litigation granted our motion to transfer and consolidate the
majority of the class-action lawsuits for administration of the pre-trial
proceedings by a single federal court the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Indiana. 

  We strongly believe that FedEx Ground s
owner-operators are properly classified as independent contractors and that we
will prevail in these proceedings. Given the nature and preliminary status of
these claims, we cannot yet determine the amount or a reasonable range of
potential loss in these matters, if any.  

   Other.  
  FedEx and its subsidiaries are subject to other legal
proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of their business. In the opinion
of management, the aggregate liability, if any, with respect to these other
actions will not materially adversely affect our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows. 

  (9)              Supplemental
Cash Flow Information  

17  

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED 
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
FedEx Corporation  

  We have reviewed the condensed consolidated balance
sheet of FedEx Corporation as of February 28, 2006, and the related
condensed consolidated statements of income for the three-month and nine-month
periods ended February 28, 2006 and 2005 and the condensed consolidated
statements of cash flows for the nine-month periods ended February 28,
2006 and 2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management.  

  We conducted our review in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). A
review of interim financial information consists principally of applying
analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial
and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit
conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion
regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not
express such an opinion.  

  Based on our review, we are not aware of any material
modifications that should be made to the condensed consolidated financial statements
referred to above for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles.  

  We have previously
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of FedEx
Corporation as of May 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of
income, changes in stockholders  investment and comprehensive income, and cash
flows for the year then ended not presented herein, and in our report dated July 12,
2005, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying
condensed consolidated balance sheet as of May 31, 2005, is fairly stated,
in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from
which it has been derived.  

  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP  

  Memphis, Tennessee 
March 21, 2006  

18  

Item 2.   Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Results of Operations and Financial Condition    

     GENERAL   

  The following Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Results of Operations and Financial Condition describes the principal factors
affecting the results of operations, liquidity, capital resources and
contractual cash obligations of FedEx, as well as our critical accounting
policies and estimates. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the
accompanying quarterly unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements
and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31,
2005 ( Annual Report ), which include additional information about our
significant accounting policies, practices and the transactions that underlie
our financial results.  

  FedEx provides a broad portfolio of transportation,
e-commerce and business services through operating companies that compete
collectively and are managed collaboratively under the respected FedEx brands. These
operating companies are primarily represented by FedEx Express, the world s
largest express transportation company; FedEx Ground, a leading provider of
small-package ground delivery services; FedEx Freight, a leading U.S. provider
of regional LTL freight services; and FedEx Kinko s, a leading provider of
document solutions and business services. These companies form the core of our
reportable segments. See  Reportable Segments  for further discussion.  

  The key indicators
necessary to understand our operating results include:  

             the
overall customer demand for our various services; 

             the
volumes of transportation and business services provided through our networks,
primarily measured by our average daily volume and shipment weight; 

             the
mix of services purchased by our customers; 

             the
prices we obtain for our services, primarily measured by average price per
shipment (yield); 

             our
ability to manage our cost structure for capital expenditures and operating
expenses such as salaries and employee benefits and maintenance and repairs,
and to match such expenses to shifting volume levels; and 

             the
timing and amount of fluctuations in fuel prices and our ability to recover
incremental fuel costs through our supplemental fuel surcharges. 

  Except as otherwise
specified, references to years indicate our fiscal year ending May 31,
2006 or ended May 31 of the year referenced and comparisons are to the
corresponding period of the prior year. References to our transportation
segments mean, collectively, our FedEx Express, FedEx Ground and FedEx Freight
segments.  

19     

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

      CONSOLIDATED
RESULTS    

  The
following table compares revenues, operating income, operating margin, net
income and diluted earnings per share (dollars in millions, except per share
amounts) for the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28:  

(1)                        The first nine months of 2006 include a $79 million
($49 million after tax or $0.16 per diluted share before variable compensation
effects) one-time, non-cash charge to adjust the accounting for certain
facility leases, predominately at FedEx Express, as described below.  

  (2)                        The first nine months of 2005 includes $48 million ($31
million, net of tax, or $0.10 per diluted share) related to an Airline Stabilization
Act charge and an $11 million or $0.04 per diluted share benefit from an income
tax adjustment described below.  

  The
following table shows changes in revenues and operating income by reportable
segment for the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28, 2006
compared to 2005 (in millions)  :  

(1)                        FedEx Express operating expenses for the first nine
months of 2006 include a $75 million (before variable compensation effects)
one-time, non-cash charge to adjust the accounting for certain facility leases,
as described below.  

  (2)                        FedEx Express operating expenses for the first nine
months of 2005 include a $48 million charge related to the Airline
Stabilization Act.  

20     

The
following table shows selected operating statistics (in thousands, except yield
amounts) for the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28:  

Revenue growth for the third quarter and nine months
of 2006 was attributable to yield improvement across all of our transportation
segments, package volume growth in our international priority services at FedEx
Express and volume growth at FedEx Ground. Yield improvements were principally
due to higher fuel surcharges and base rate increases.  

  Operating income increased during the third quarter
and nine months of 2006 primarily due to revenue growth and improved margins in
our transportation segments. Yield and cost management activities, combined
with productivity gains across all transportation segments, contributed to our
margin growth in the third quarter and nine months of 2006. Operating margin
improvement was partially offset by higher costs at FedEx Express to support
international volume growth and reduced profit at FedEx Kinko s.  

  While fuel costs increased substantially during the
third quarter and nine months of 2006, fuel surcharges were sufficient to
mitigate the effect of higher fuel costs on our operating results. In response
to the significant fluctuations in jet and diesel fuel prices during the second
and third quarters of 2006, we temporarily capped certain of our fuel
surcharges in December to ensure our services remain competitively priced
in the marketplace. While fluctuations in fuel surcharge rates can be
significant from period to period, fuel surcharge revenue represents one of
many individual components of our pricing structure that impact our overall
revenue and yield. Additional components include the mix of services purchased,
the base price we obtain for these services and the level of pricing discounts
offered. In order to provide information about the impact of fuel surcharges on
the trend in revenue and yield growth, we have included the comparative fuel
surcharge rates in effect for the third quarter and nine months of 2006 in the
following discussions of each of our transportation segments.  

  Our results for the nine months of 2006 included a one
time, non-cash charge of $79 million ($49 million after tax or $0.16 per
diluted share before variable compensation effects), which was recorded during
the first quarter and represented the impact on prior years, to adjust the
accounting for certain facility leases, predominantly at FedEx Express.  

  During the first half of 2006, Hurricanes Katrina,
Wilma and Rita impacted each of our segment s operations in the Gulf Coast
region. We suffered damage to a limited number of facilities and some of our
equipment as a result of these storms. Furthermore, these storms negatively
impacted our results of operations, which was reflected in reduced shipment
volumes and incremental operating costs. We maintain business interruption and
other insurance coverage that may provide for recovery of certain of   

21     

these losses. The amount or timing of any business
interruption insurance proceeds cannot be estimated at this time. Any such recoveries
will be recognized only when realized.  

  Results for the third quarter of 2006 include a
benefit from the settlement of a trade secrets lawsuit against Accu-Sort Systems
Inc. This benefit was more than offset, however, by accruals relating to other
pending litigation matters. The net effect of these items, either individually
or in the aggregate, was not material.  

  Net interest expense decreased during the third
quarter and nine months of 2006. The decrease in net interest expense was
primarily due to a reduction in the level of outstanding debt and capital
leases as a result of scheduled payments and additional capitalized interest
due to modification of aircraft at FedEx Express.  

  Our effective tax rate was
37.3% for the third quarter and 37.9% for the nine months of 2006. We expect
the effective tax rate to approximate 38% for the fourth quarter of 2006;
however, the actual rate will depend on a number of factors, including the
amount and source of operating income. Our effective tax rates for the third
quarter and nine months of 2005 were 38.3% and 37.5%, respectively. The lower
effective tax rate for the nine months of 2005 was primarily related to the  passage of the American Jobs Creation Act of
2004, which resulted in an $11 million tax benefit in the second quarter of
2005. This benefit was principally due to the reduction of a valuation
allowance previously established against foreign tax credits arising from
certain of our international operations. 

    Outlook    

  We expect continued revenue and earnings growth across
all transportation segments in the fourth quarter of 2006. We anticipate
continued growth of international and U.S. domestic overnight package volumes
and yields and declines in U.S. deferred volumes at FedEx Express. We also
anticipate year-over-year increases in volumes and yields at FedEx Ground and
FedEx Freight, as FedEx Ground continues its multi-year capacity expansion plan
and FedEx Freight continues to grow its regional and interregional services. Increased
package acceptance revenues and declines in copy product line revenues at FedEx
Kinko s are expected to continue in the fourth quarter of 2006, as are costs to
enhance service levels and implement new technologies.  

  While our fuel surcharges have been sufficient to offset
increased fuel prices, we cannot predict the impact on the overall economy if
fuel costs increase sharply from current levels. Volatility in fuel costs may
also impact quarterly earnings because adjustments to our fuel surcharges lag
changes in actual fuel prices paid. Therefore, the trailing impact of
adjustments to the FedEx Express fuel surcharge can significantly affect
earnings in the short term.  

  Our westbound around-the-world flight began in March 2005.
We will continue to see higher costs as compared to the prior year associated
with our eastbound around-the-world flight in the fourth quarter of 2006 and we
will begin using three new flight frequencies to China. The mix of services on
both the eastbound and westbound around-the-world flights is expected to
improve over time as we sell higher yielding traffic into this capacity and
replace freight shipments with more profitable FedEx International Priority ( IP )
shipments.  

  All of our transportation businesses operate in a
competitive pricing environment, exacerbated by continuing high fuel prices. However,
we continue to manage our yields so that volume growth can be achieved at
compensatory rates.  

  On January 24, 2006, FedEx Express entered into
an agreement with Tianjin Datian W. Group Co., Ltd. ( DTW Group ) to acquire
DTW Group s 50% share of the FedEx-DTW International Priority express joint
venture ( FedEx-DTW ) and DTW Group s domestic express network in China for
approximately $400 million in cash. This acquisition will convert our joint
venture with DTW Group, formed in 1999 and currently accounted for under the
equity method, into a wholly owned subsidiary and increase our   

22     

presence in China in the international and domestic
express businesses. The acquisition is expected to be completed in the first
half of 2007. The financial results of this transaction will be included in the
FedEx Express segment from the date of acquisition.  

  The pilots of FedEx Express, which represent a small
number of FedEx Express total employees, are employed under a collective
bargaining agreement that became amendable on May 31, 2004. In accordance
with applicable labor law, we will continue to operate under our current
agreement while we negotiate with our pilots. Contract negotiations with the
pilots  union began in March 2004. These negotiations are ongoing and are
being mediated through the National Mediation Board. We cannot estimate the
financial impact, if any, the results of these negotiations may have on our
future results of operations.  

  Increased security requirements for air cargo carriers
have not had a material impact on our operating results for the periods
presented. In November 2004, the Transportation Security Administration ( TSA )
proposed new rules enhancing many of the security requirements for air
cargo on both passenger and all-cargo aircraft. Because the TSA s proposed rules are
subject to comment, any final rules may differ significantly from the
proposed rules. Accordingly, it is not yet possible to estimate the impact, if
any, that the adoption of new rules by the TSA or any other additional
security requirements may have on our results of operations. However, it is
possible that increased security requirements could impose substantial
incremental costs on us and our competitors.  

  See  Forward-Looking
Statements  for a discussion of potential risks and uncertainties that could
materially affect our future performance.  

    NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS    

  In December 2004, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS 123R,  Share-Based Payment.   The new standard requires companies to record
compensation expense for stock-based awards using a fair value method and is
effective for annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005 (effective in
the first quarter of 2007 for FedEx). Compensation expense will be recorded
over the requisite service period, which is typically the vesting period of the
award. We plan to adopt this standard using the modified prospective method.  

  The impact of the adoption of SFAS 123R cannot be
predicted at this time because it will depend on levels of share-based payments
granted in the future, the assumptions and the fair value model used to value
those future grants and the market value of our common stock. However, we
anticipate that the impact of SFAS 123R will approximate the pro forma results
under SFAS 123 presented in Note 1 to the accompanying unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements. The effect of recording compensation expense
under SFAS 123 would have resulted in a reduction to earnings per diluted share
of $0.04 and $0.03 for the three-month periods ended February 28, 2006 and
2005, respectively, and $0.11 and $0.08 for the nine-month periods ended February 28,
2006 and 2005, respectively.  

  In March 2005, the
FASB issued Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. ( FIN )
47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an Interpretation
of FASB Statement No. 143.  FIN 47 clarifies that liabilities associated
with asset retirement obligations for which the timing or settlement method is
conditional upon future events should be recorded at fair value as soon as fair
value is reasonably estimable. FIN 47 also provides guidance on the information
required to reasonably estimate the fair value of the liability. We will adopt
FIN 47 in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the adoption will not have a material
impact on our financial position or results of operations for 2006.  

23     

REPORTABLE SEGMENTS    

  FedEx
Express, FedEx Ground, FedEx Freight and FedEx Kinko s form the core of our
reportable segments. Our reportable segments include the following businesses:  

FedEx Express Segment   

FedEx Express (express transportation)  

FedEx Trade Networks (global trade services)  

FedEx
  Ground Segment   

FedEx Ground
  (small-package ground delivery)  

FedEx SmartPost (small-parcel consolidator)  

FedEx Supply Chain Services (contract logistics)  

FedEx Freight Segment   

FedEx Freight (LTL
  freight transportation)  

FedEx Custom Critical (time-critical transportation)  

Caribbean Transportation Services (airfreight
  forwarding)  

FedEx
  Kinko s Segment   

FedEx Kinko s (document
  solutions and business services)  

FedEx Services provides customer-facing sales,
marketing and information technology support, primarily for FedEx Express and
FedEx Ground. The costs for these activities are allocated based on metrics
such as relative revenues or estimated services provided. We believe these
allocations approximate the cost of providing these functions. The operating
expenses line item  Intercompany charges  on the accompanying unaudited
financial summaries of our reportable segments includes the allocations from
FedEx Services to the respective segments. The  Intercompany charges  caption
also includes allocations for administrative services provided between
operating companies and certain other costs such as corporate management fees
related to services received for general corporate oversight, including
executive officers and certain legal and finance functions. Management
evaluates segment financial performance based on operating income.  

  In addition, certain FedEx
operating companies provide transportation and related services for other FedEx
companies outside their reportable segment. Billings for such services are
based on negotiated rates, which we believe approximate fair value, and are
reflected as revenues of the billing segment. FedEx Kinko s segment revenues
include package acceptance revenue, which represents the fee received by FedEx
Kinko s from FedEx Express and FedEx Ground for accepting and handling packages
at FedEx Kinko s locations on behalf of these operating companies. Package
acceptance revenue does not include the external revenue associated with the
actual shipments. All shipment revenues are reflected in the segment performing
the transportation services. Such intersegment revenues and expenses are
eliminated in the consolidated results but are not separately identified in the
following segment information as the amounts are not material.  

24     

FEDEX EXPRESS SEGMENT    

  The
following table compares revenues, operating expenses, operating income and
margin (dollars in millions) for the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28:  

(1)                        Other revenues includes FedEx Trade Networks.  

  (2)                        Operating expenses for the first nine months of 2006
include a $75 million (before variable compensation effects) one-time, non-cash
charge to adjust the accounting for certain facility leases.  

25  

The
following table compares selected statistics (in thousands, except yield
amounts) for the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28:  

(1)                       Package
and freight statistics include only the operations of FedEx Express. 

    FedEx Express Segment Revenues    

  FedEx Express segment total revenues increased in the
third quarter and nine months of 2006, principally due to increases in IP, U.S.
domestic overnight and U.S. freight revenues. During the third quarter of 2006,
IP revenues grew 12% on a 10% increase in volume and yield growth of 2%. During
the nine months of 2006, IP revenues grew 13% on an 8% increase in volume and
yield growth of 5%. During the third quarter and nine month periods of 2006,
U.S. domestic package revenues grew 5% and 7% due primarily to yield increases
of 8% and 6%.  

  Asia experienced strong average daily volume growth
during both the third quarter and nine months of 2006, while outbound shipments
from the United States, Europe and Latin America also increased compared to the
prior year. IP and international freight capacity has increased significantly
as a result of our two around-the-world flights. We may continue to realize
increased international freight volume until higher yielding IP traffic can be
sold into the added capacity. The U.S. domestic package volume decline in the
third quarter resulted from a planned decrease in U.S. domestic deferred
volumes, partially offset by growth in our U.S. domestic overnight services.  

26     

IP yield increased during the third quarter and nine
months of 2006 primarily due to higher fuel surcharges, improved regional mix
and an increase in international average weight per package, partially offset
by currency exchange rate impacts. U.S. domestic composite yield increases were
due to higher fuel surcharge revenue and improved yields on U.S. domestic
deferred packages. We continue to manage our U.S. domestic deferred yield to
improve the profitability of this service.  U.S. freight yield increases were due to an
increase in average rate per pound and higher fuel surcharge revenue. In January 2006,
we implemented an average list price increase of 5.5% on FedEx Express U.S.
domestic shipments and U.S. outbound international shipments, while we lowered
our fuel surcharge index by 2%.  

  Fuel
surcharge revenue was higher in the third quarter and nine months of 2006 due
to higher jet fuel prices. Our fuel surcharge is indexed to the spot price for
jet fuel. Using this index, the U.S. domestic and outbound fuel surcharge and
the international fuel surcharges ranged as follows for the three- and
nine-month periods ended February 28:  

Beginning in November 2005
and continuing into December 2005, we temporarily capped our fuel
surcharges in certain regions to ensure that our services remained
competitively priced in the marketplace.  

    FedEx
Express Segment Operating Income    

  During the third quarter and nine months of 2006, our
operating income grew as a result of strong revenue growth and improved
operating margin. Continued volume growth in higher margin U.S. domestic
overnight and IP services contributed to solid yield improvements. Improved
yields, combined with productivity gains, allowed FedEx Express to
substantially improve operating margin in the third quarter of 2006. Revenue
and margin growth for the third quarter and nine months of 2006 more than
offset a one-time adjustment for leases in the first quarter and costs
associated with our two around-the-world flights.  

  During the third quarter and nine months of 2006, fuel
costs were higher due to an increase in the average price per gallon of jet
fuel, while gallons consumed increased slightly. However, fuel surcharge
revenue mitigated higher jet fuel prices. Purchased transportation costs
increased in the third quarter and nine months of 2006 driven by IP volume
growth, which required a higher utilization of contract pickup and delivery
services. The increase in the nine months of 2006 in rentals and landing fees
is primarily due to the one-time adjustment for leases of $75 million.  

27  

FEDEX
GROUND SEGMENT    

  The
following table compares revenues, operating expenses, operating income and
margin (dollars in millions) and selected package statistics (in thousands,
except yield amounts) for the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28:  

(1)                       Package
statistics include only the operations of FedEx Ground. 

    FedEx Ground Segment Revenues    

  Revenues increased during the third quarter and nine
months of 2006 principally due to volume and yield growth. Average daily
volumes increased across all of our services, led by the continued growth of
our home delivery service. Yield improvement during the third quarter and nine
months of 2006 was primarily due to increased fuel surcharge revenue, higher
extra service revenue (primarily on our residential, declared value and
oversize services) and the impact of general rate increases. These increases
were partially offset by higher customer discounts and a lower average weight
per package.  

  In January 2006, we implemented standard list
rate increases averaging 3.9% and changes to various surcharges. Prior to January 2005
no fuel surcharge was in effect for the third quarter and nine months of 2005.  

  The
FedEx Ground fuel surcharge is based on a rounded average of the national U.S.
on-highway average prices for a gallon of diesel fuel, as published by the
Department of Energy. Our fuel surcharge ranged as follows for the three- and
nine-month periods ended February 28:  

(1)                       The
fuel surcharge was reinstated January 3, 2005. 

28     

FedEx Ground Segment Operating Income    

  FedEx Ground segment operating income increased 26%
during the third quarter and 16% in the nine months of 2006, as volume and
yield growth more than offset higher operating expenses. Salaries and employee
benefits, as well as other operating costs, increased in 2006 principally due
to increases in staffing and facilities to support volume growth.  

  Segment operating margin
improved for the third quarter of 2006 due to revenues from the reinstated fuel
surcharge, rate increases and improved productivity and effective expense
controls, partially offset by increased expenses related to investments in new
technology and our capacity expansion program. There was one fewer operating
day in this year s third quarter. Segment operating margin improved slightly
for the nine months of 2006 due to fuel surcharge revenues, general rate increases,
improved productivity and the inclusion in 2005 of a $10 million charge at
FedEx Supply Chain Services related to the termination of a vendor agreement,
partially offset by higher year-over-year expenses related to investments in
new technology and the opening of three new hubs in line with our long-term
growth strategy.  

    FEDEX
FREIGHT SEGMENT    

  The
following table shows revenues, operating expenses, operating income and margin
(dollars in millions) and selected statistics for the three- and nine-month periods
ended February 28:  

29  

FedEx
Freight Segment Revenues    

  FedEx
Freight segment revenues increased 14% during the third quarter and 13% in the
nine months of 2006, due to year-over-year growth in LTL yield and average
daily LTL shipments. LTL yield grew during the third quarter and nine months of
2006, reflecting incremental fuel surcharges and higher rates. Increased
customer demand for our regional and interregional LTL services contributed to
the increase in average daily LTL shipments. The LTL fuel surcharge, which applies to the majority of our revenue,
is based on the national U.S. on-highway average prices for a gallon of diesel
fuel, as published by the Department of Energy. Using this index, the
approximate LTL fuel surcharge ranged as follows for the three- and nine-month
periods ended February 28:  

From September 6 to October 31,
2005, we capped our LTL fuel surcharge at 16.7% to benefit customers impacted
by the volatility in diesel fuel prices in the aftermath of several recent
hurricanes.  

    FedEx
Freight Segment Operating Income    

  FedEx Freight segment
operating income increased 35% during the third quarter and 32% during the nine
months of 2006 primarily due to LTL revenue growth and our ability to control
costs in line with volume growth. Increased LTL yield and productivity gains
contributed to improved margins in the third quarter and nine months of 2006
despite higher salaries and employee benefits, fuel and depreciation. Salaries
and employee benefits increased in the third quarter and nine months of 2006
due to increased staffing to support volume growth and higher incentive
compensation. Depreciation costs increased primarily due to the investment in
our operating equipment, which in some cases replaced leased equipment. Maintenance
and repairs costs decreased due to the presence of rebranding costs in 2005 as
well as the recent increase in the purchase of new fleet vehicles. Purchased
transportation costs decreased, due to increased utilization of company
equipment in our interregional freight services.  

30     

FEDEX
KINKO S SEGMENT    

  The
following table shows revenues, operating expenses, operating income and margin
(dollars in millions) for the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28:  

Certain prior period
amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.  

    FedEx
Kinko s Segment Revenues    

  Revenues were flat for the
third quarter and increased modestly for the nine months of 2006. During both
periods, we experienced growth in package acceptance revenue and the year over
year benefit of the conversion of certain FedEx World Service Centers to FedEx
Kinko s Ship Centers in April 2005. However, growth in these areas was
offset by a decline in our copy product line revenues, due in part to a
competitive pricing environment.  

    FedEx
Kinko s Segment Operating Income    

  Operating income decreased $4 million in the third
quarter and $20 million in the nine months of 2006 as the increase in package
acceptance revenues was more than offset by a decline in copy product line revenues.
The increase in the nine months of 2006 in salaries and employee benefits is
due to the addition of World Service Centers and higher group health insurance
costs. Increased depreciation in the nine months of 2006 was driven by center
rebranding and investments in new technology to replace legacy systems. The
increase for the third quarter and nine months of 2006 in other operating
expenses was primarily due to increased costs related to technology and product
offering initiatives.  

  During the third quarter,
FedEx veteran Kenneth A. May was named President and Chief Executive
Officer of FedEx Kinko s and Brian D. Philips, formerly Vice President of U.S.
marketing for FedEx, was named Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer.  

31     

FINANCIAL CONDITION   

    LIQUIDITY    

  Cash
and cash equivalents totaled $1.121 billion at February 28, 2006, compared
to $1.039 billion at May 31, 2005. The following table provides a summary
of our cash flows for the nine-month periods ended February 28 (in
millions):  

Cash Provided by Operating Activities.          Cash flows from operating activities increased
by $259 million in the nine months of 2006 primarily due to increased earnings.
We made voluntary, tax deductible contributions to our principal U.S. domestic
pension plans of $456 million in 2006 and $460 million in 2005. 

    Cash Used for Investing Activities.        Capital
expenditures during the nine months of 2006 were 12% higher than the prior year
period largely due to planned aircraft expenditures at FedEx Express to support
IP volume growth. See  Capital Resources 
below for further discussion. In the nine months of 2005, our investing
activities included our acquisition of FedEx SmartPost, a division of a
privately held company, for $122 million in cash. 

    Debt Financing Activities.        The
increase in principal payments on debt primarily relates to scheduled payments
on our debt and capital leases.  A new
$1.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility was executed in July 2005
and replaced our prior revolving credit facilities. The revolving credit
facility is available to finance our operations and other cash flow needs and
to provide support for the issuance of commercial paper. Any commercial paper
borrowings reduce the amount available under the revolving credit facility. At February 28,
2006, no commercial paper was outstanding and the entire $1.0 billion under the
revolving credit facility was available for future borrowings. Borrowings under
the revolving credit facility will bear interest at short-term interest rates
(based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), the Prime Rate or the
Federal Funds Rate) plus a margin dependent upon our senior unsecured long-term
debt ratings. 

  Our revolving credit agreement contains a financial
covenant, which requires us to maintain a leverage ratio of adjusted debt (long-term
debt, including the current portion of such debt, plus six times rentals and
landing fees) to capital (adjusted debt plus total common stockholders 
investment) that does not exceed   

32     

0.7 to 1.0. We are in compliance with this and all
other restrictive covenants of our revolving credit agreement and do not expect
the covenants to significantly affect our operations.  

  We also use capital and operating leases to finance a
portion of our aircraft, facility, vehicles and equipment needs. In addition,
we have a $1.0 billion shelf registration statement filed with the SEC to
provide flexibility and efficiency when obtaining certain financing. Under this
shelf registration statement we may issue, in one or more offerings, unsecured
debt securities, common stock or a combination of such instruments. The entire
$1.0 billion is available for future financings.  

    Dividends.          Dividends paid in the nine months of 2006 and
2005 were $73 million and $63 million, respectively. On February 17, 2006,
our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.08 per share of common stock. The
dividend is payable on April 3, 2006 to stockholders of record as of the
close of business on March 13, 2006. 

    Other Liquidity Information.        We
believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations,
our commercial paper program, revolving bank credit facilities and shelf
registration statement will adequately meet our working capital and investing
activities needs for the foreseeable future. 

    CAPITAL
RESOURCES    

  Our operations are capital intensive, characterized by
significant investments in aircraft, vehicles, technology, package-handling
facilities and sort equipment. The amount and timing of capital additions
depend on various factors, including pre-existing contractual commitments,
anticipated volume growth, domestic and international economic conditions, new
or enhanced services, geographical expansion of services, competition,
availability of satisfactory financing and actions of regulatory authorities.  

  The
following table compares capital expenditures by asset category and reportable
segment for the three- and nine-month periods ended February 28 (in
millions):  

Capital expenditures during the nine months of 2006
were higher than the prior year period primarily due to replacement vehicles at
FedEx Express. Also, additional investments were made in the FedEx Ground and
FedEx Freight networks to support growth in customer demand. We expect capital
expenditures of approximately $2.6 billion for 2006, compared to $2.2 billion
in 2005. We also continue to invest in   

33     

infrastructure upgrades and productivity-enhancing
technologies, the multi-year capacity expansion of the FedEx Ground network and
growth and replacement vehicle needs at FedEx Freight.  Capital expenditures during the nine months
of 2005 at FedEx Kinko s included significant costs associated with investments
in leasehold improvements to support package acceptance services for FedEx
Express and FedEx Ground and facility rebranding. 

  Because of substantial
lead times associated with the manufacture or modification of aircraft, we must
generally plan our aircraft orders or modifications three to eight years in
advance. While we also pursue market opportunities to purchase aircraft when
they become available, we must make commitments regarding our airlift
requirements years before aircraft are actually needed. We are closely managing
our capital spending based on current and anticipated volume levels and will
defer or limit capital additions where economically feasible, while continuing
to invest strategically in growing service lines.  

    CONTRACTUAL
CASH OBLIGATIONS    

  The
following table sets forth a summary of our contractual cash obligations as of February 28,
2006. Certain of these contractual obligations are reflected in our balance
sheet, while others are disclosed as future obligations under accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. Except for the current
portion of long-term debt and capital lease obligations, this table does not
include amounts already recorded on our balance sheet as current liabilities at
February 28, 2006. Accordingly, this table is not meant to represent a forecast
of our total cash expenditures for any of the periods presented.  

(1)                       Cash
obligations for the remainder of 2006. 

  (2)                       Capital lease
obligations represent principal and interest payments. 

  (3)                       See Note 7 to
the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements. 

  We have certain contingent liabilities that are not
accrued in our balance sheet in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. These contingent liabilities are not included in
the table above.  

34  

Amounts
Reflected in Balance Sheet   

  We have certain financial instruments representing
potential commitments, not reflected in the table above, that were incurred in
the normal course of business to support our operations, including surety bonds
and standby letters of credit. These instruments are generally required under
certain U.S. self-insurance programs and are also used in the normal course of
international operations. While the notional amounts of these instruments are
material, there are no additional contingent liabilities associated with them
because the underlying liabilities are already reflected in our balance sheet.  

  We have other long-term
liabilities reflected in our balance sheet, including deferred income taxes,
non-qualified pension and postretirement healthcare liabilities and
self-insurance accruals. The payment obligations associated with these
liabilities are not reflected in the table above due to the absence of
scheduled maturities. Therefore, the timing of these payments cannot be determined,
except for amounts estimated to be payable within twelve months that are
included in current liabilities.  

     Other
Cash Obligations Not Reflected in Balance Sheet   

  The amounts reflected in the table above for purchase
commitments represent non-cancelable agreements to purchase goods or services. Such
contracts include those for certain purchases of aircraft, aircraft
modifications, vehicles, facilities, computers, printing and other equipment
and multi-year advertising and promotions contracts. In addition, we have
committed to modify our DC10 aircraft for passenger-to-freighter and two-man
cockpit configurations, which is reflected in the table above. Commitments to
purchase aircraft in passenger configuration do not include the attendant costs
to modify these aircraft for cargo transport unless we have entered into a
non-cancelable commitment. Open purchase orders that are cancelable are not
considered unconditional purchase obligations for financial reporting purposes
and are not included in the table above. Such purchase orders often represent
authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements.  

  The amounts reflected in the table above for interest
on long-term debt represent future interest payments due on our long-term debt,
which are primarily fixed rate.  

  The amounts reflected in the table above for operating
leases represent future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating
leases (principally aircraft and facilities) with an initial or remaining term
in excess of one year at February 28, 2006. In the past, we financed a
significant portion of our aircraft needs (and certain other equipment needs)
using operating leases (a type of  off-balance sheet financing ). At the time
that the decision to lease was made, we determined that these operating leases
would provide economic benefits favorable to ownership with respect to market
values, liquidity or after-tax cash flows.  

  In accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States, our operating leases are not recorded in our
balance sheet. Credit rating agencies routinely use information concerning
minimum lease payments required for our operating leases to calculate our debt
capacity. In addition, we have guarantees under certain operating leases,
amounting to $34 million as of February 28, 2006, for the residual values
of vehicles and facilities at the end of the respective operating lease periods.
Although some of these leased assets may have a residual value at the end of
the lease term that is less than the value specified in the related operating
lease agreement, we do not believe it is probable that we will be required to
fund material amounts under the terms of these guarantee arrangements. Accordingly,
no material accruals have been recognized for these guarantees.  

  In the future, other forms of secured financing and
direct purchases may be used to obtain capital assets if we determine that they
best suit our needs. We have been successful in obtaining investment capital,
both domestic and international, for long-term leases on acceptable terms,
although the marketplace for such capital can become restricted depending on a
variety of economic factors. We believe the capital resources   

35     

available to us provide flexibility to access the most
efficient markets for financing capital acquisitions, including aircraft, and
are adequate for our future capital needs.  

  We have a senior unsecured
debt credit rating from Standard   Poor s of BBB and a commercial
paper rating of A-2. Moody s Investors Service has assigned us a senior
unsecured debt credit rating of Baa2 and a commercial paper rating of P-2.
Moody s characterizes our ratings outlook as  stable,  while Standard and Poor s
characterizes our ratings outlook as  positive.   If our credit ratings drop, our interest expense
may increase; similarly, we anticipate that our interest expense may decrease
if our credit ratings are raised. If our commercial paper ratings drop below
current levels, we may have difficulty utilizing the commercial paper market.  If our senior unsecured debt ratings drop
below investment grade, our access to financing may become more limited.  

     CRITICAL
ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES   

  The preparation of financial statements in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires
management to adopt accounting policies and make significant judgments and
estimates to develop amounts reflected and disclosed in the financial
statements. In many cases, there are alternative policies or estimation
techniques that could be used. We maintain a thorough process to review the
application of our accounting policies and to evaluate the appropriateness of
the many estimates that are required to prepare the financial statements of a
large, global corporation. However, even under optimal circumstances, estimates
routinely require adjustment based on changing circumstances and the receipt of
new or better information.  

  Information regarding our  Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates  can be found in our Annual Report. The four
critical accounting policies that we believe are either the most judgmental, or
involve the selection or application of alternative accounting policies, and
are material to our financial statements are those relating to pension cost,
self-insurance accruals, long-lived assets and revenue recognition. Management
has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting
policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and
with our independent registered public accounting firm. In addition, Note 1 to
the financial statements in our Annual Report contains a summary of our
significant accounting policies.  

     FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   

  Certain statements
in this report, including (but not limited to) those contained in  Outlook,   Liquidity, 
 Capital Resources  and  Contractual Cash Obligations,  are  forward-looking 
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995 with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, cash
flows, plans, objectives, future performance and business of FedEx. Forward-looking
statements include those preceded by, followed by or that include the words  may, 
 could,   would,   should,   believes,   expects,   anticipates,   plans,   estimates, 
 targets,   projects,   intends  or similar expressions. These forward-looking
statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ
materially from those contemplated (expressed or implied) by such
forward-looking statements, because of, among other things, potential risks and
uncertainties, such as:  

      economic conditions in the global
markets in which we operate; 

      any impacts on our business resulting
from new domestic or international government regulation, including regulatory
actions affecting aviation rights, security requirements and labor rules; 

      the impact of any international
conflicts or terrorist activities on the United States and global economies in
general, the transportation industry or FedEx in particular, and what effects
these events will have on our costs or the demand for our services; 

36     

our ability to manage our cost
structure for capital expenditures and operating expenses and match them,
especially those relating to aircraft, vehicle and sort capacity, to shifting
customer volume levels; 

      our ability to effectively operate,
integrate and leverage the FedEx Kinko s business; 

      sudden changes in fuel prices or
currency exchange rates; 

      our ability to maintain or increase our
fuel surcharges in response to rising fuel prices due to competitive pressures; 

      significant changes in the volumes of
shipments transported through our networks, customer demand for our various
services or the prices we obtain for our services; 

      our ability to successfully defend
against challenges to our independent contractor model; 

      the
outcome of negotiations to reach a new collective bargaining agreement with the
union that represents the pilots of FedEx Express; 

      market
acceptance of our new service and growth initiatives; 

      competition from other providers of
transportation, e-commerce and business services, including our ability to
compete with new or improved services offered by our competitors; 

      the impact of technology developments
on our operations and on demand for our services; 

      technology infrastructure disruptions,
including those impacting the Internet or our computer systems and Web site; 

      our ability to obtain and maintain
aviation rights in important international markets; 

      adverse weather conditions or natural
disasters; 

      widespread outbreak of an illness, such
as avian influenza (bird flu), severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) or any
other communicable disease, or any other public health crisis; 

      availability of financing on terms
acceptable to us and our ability to maintain our current credit ratings; and 

      other
risks and uncertainties you can find in our press releases and SEC filings. 

  As a result of these and
other factors, no assurance can be given as to our future results and
achievements. Accordingly, a forward-looking statement is neither a prediction
nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances and those future events or
circumstances may not occur. You should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We
are under no obligation, and we expressly disclaim any obligation, to update or
alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise.  

37     

Item 3.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk    

  As of February 28, 2006, there had been no
material changes in our market risk sensitive instruments and positions since
the disclosure in our Annual Report. While we are a global provider of
transportation, e-commerce and business services, the substantial majority of
our transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars. The distribution of our
foreign currency denominated transactions is such that foreign currency declines
in some areas of the world are often offset by foreign currency gains of
comparable magnitude in other areas of the world. Our principal exposure to
foreign currency exchange rate risks is in the Japanese yen, Taiwan dollar,
Canadian dollar and euro. Foreign currency fluctuations during the three- and
nine-month periods ended February 28, 2006 did not have a material effect
on our results of operations.  

  We have market risk for
changes in the price of jet and diesel fuel; however, this risk is largely
mitigated by revenue from our fuel surcharges. However, our fuel surcharges
have a lag that exists before they are adjusted for changes in fuel prices and
fuel prices can fluctuate within certain ranges before resulting in a change in
our fuel surcharges. Therefore, our operating income may be affected should the
spot price of fuel continue to fluctuate by significant amounts or change by
amounts that do not result in a change in our fuel surcharges or cause us to
put a temporary cap on our fuel surcharges.  

      Item 4.    Controls
and Procedures    

  The management of FedEx, with the participation of our
principal executive and financial officers, has evaluated the effectiveness of
our disclosure controls and procedures in ensuring that the information
required to be disclosed in our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the
time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and
forms, including ensuring that such information is accumulated and communicated
to FedEx management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Based on such evaluation, our principal executive and financial
officers have concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective
as of February 28, 2006 (the end of the period covered by this Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q).  

  During our fiscal quarter ended February 28,
2006, no change occurred in our internal control over financial reporting that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.  

38  

PART II.                                                     OTHER
INFORMATION 

      Item 6.                                Exhibits  

Exhibit 
  Number 

Description of Exhibit 

10.1  

Twenty-Sixth
  Supplemental Lease Agreement dated as of September 1, 2005 between the
  Memphis-Shelby County Airport Authority and Federal Express Corporation.  

10.2  

Amendment to
  FedEx Corporation Incentive Stock Plan and 1997, 1999 and 2002 Stock
  Incentive Plans.  

10.3  

FedEx Corporation
  Incentive Stock Plan 2005 Inland Revenue Approved Sub-Plan for the United
  Kingdom and Form of Share Option Agreement pursuant to the FedEx
  Corporation Incentive Stock Plan 2005 Inland Revenue Approved Sub-Plan for
  the United Kingdom. (The United Kingdom Sub-Plan was filed as
  Exhibit 4.2 to FedEx Corporation s Registration Statement No. 333-130619
  on Form S-8, and is incorporated herein by reference, and the form
  of share option agreement pursuant to the UK Sub-Plan was filed as
  Exhibit 4.3 to FedEx Corporation s Registration Statement No. 333-130619
  on Form S-8, and is incorporated herein by reference.)  

12.1  

Computation of
  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  

15.1  

Letter re:
  Unaudited Interim Financial Statements.  

31.1  

Certification of
  Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and
  15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted
  Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2  

Certification of
  Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and
  15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted
  Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.1  

Certification of
  Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
  Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.2  

Certification of
  Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
  Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

39  

SIGNATURE   

  Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto
duly authorized.  

FEDEX CORPORATION  

Date: March 24,
  2006  

/s/ JOHN L. MERINO  

JOHN L. MERINO  

CORPORATE VICE PRESIDENT  

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER  

40  

EXHIBIT INDEX   

Exhibit 
  Number 

Description of Exhibit   

10.1  

Twenty-Sixth
  Supplemental Lease Agreement dated as of September 1, 2005 between the
  Memphis-Shelby County Airport Authority and Federal Express Corporation.  

10.2  

Amendment to
  FedEx Corporation Incentive Stock Plan and 1997, 1999 and 2002 Stock
  Incentive Plans.  

10.3  

FedEx Corporation
  Incentive Stock Plan 2005 Inland Revenue Approved Sub-Plan for the United
  Kingdom and Form of Share Option Agreement pursuant to the FedEx
  Corporation Incentive Stock Plan 2005 Inland Revenue Approved Sub-Plan for
  the United Kingdom. (The United Kingdom Sub-Plan was filed as
  Exhibit 4.2 to FedEx Corporation s Registration Statement No. 333-130619
  on Form S-8, and is incorporated herein by reference, and the form
  of share option agreement pursuant to the UK Sub-Plan was filed as
  Exhibit 4.3 to FedEx Corporation s Registration Statement No. 333-130619
  on Form S-8, and is incorporated herein by reference.)  

12.1  

Computation of
  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  

15.1  

Letter re:
  Unaudited Interim Financial Statements.  

31.1  

Certification of
  Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and
  15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted
  Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2  

Certification of
  Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and
  15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted
  Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.1  

Certification of
  Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
  Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.2  

Certification of
  Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
  Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

E-  1  

<EX-10.1>
 2
 a06-7272_1ex10d1.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.1   

EXECUTION COPY   

TWENTY- SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL LEASE AGREEMENT   

by and between   

MEMPHIS-SHELBY COUNTY AIRPORT AUTHORITY   

and   

FEDERAL EXPRESS CORPORATION   

Dated as of September 1, 2005   

AMENDING THE CONSOLIDATED AND RESTATED LEASE
AGREEMENT DATED AS OF AUGUST 1, 1979 BETWEEN THE MEMPHIS-SHELBY COUNTY
AIRPORT AUTHORITY AND FEDERAL EXPRESS CORPORATION.   

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Section   

Page   

1  

Definitions  

4  

2  

Granting Leasehold  

4  

3  

Term; Delivery and Acceptance of Possession   

4  

4  

Rental   

5  

5  

Hazardous Substances/Waste  

5  

6  

Lease Agreement Still in Effect; Provisions There of Applicable to
  this Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Lease Agreement  

7  

7  

Descriptive Headings   

7  

8  

Effectiveness of this Twenty-Sixth Lease Agreement  

7  

9  

Execution of Counterparts  

7  

10  

Summaries  

7  

Notary   

9  

Leased Parcel Summary  

10  

Rental Summary   

12  

TWENTY-SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL LEASE AGREEMENT   

THIS TWENTY-SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL LEASE
AGREEMENT,   made and entered into as of the 1 st  of
September 2005, by and between MEMPHIS-SHELBY COUNTY AIRPORT AUTHORITY
(herein sometimes referred to as  Authority ), a public and governmental body
politic and corporate of the State of Tennessee, and FEDERAL EXPRESS
CORPORATION (herein sometimes referred to as  Tenant ), a corporation duly
organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware and qualified to
do business in the State of Tennessee. 

W I T N E S S E T H:   

WHEREAS, Authority and Tenant on October 3, 1979 entered into a
Consolidated and Restated Lease Agreement dated as of August 1, 1979; and  

WHEREAS, Authority and Tenant between April 1, 1981 and April 1,
2005, have entered into Twenty Five Supplemental Lease Agreements amending the
1979 Consolidated and Restated Lease Agreement; and  

WHEREAS, the said Consolidated and Restated Lease Agreement dated as of
August 1, 1979, together with the First through the Twenty-Fifth
Supplemental Lease Agreements, is herein referred to as the  Lease Agreement 
and  

WHEREAS, Authority and Tenant have agreed to further supplement the
Lease Agreement so as to add certain property currently leased to Tenant on a
month-to-month basis referred to as AMR Combs-North Complex and certain land
associated therewith containing approximately 850,996 square feet;and  

WHEREAS, Authority and Tenant have also agreed to add additional land
containing approximately 22,651 square feet; and  

3  

WHEREAS, Authority and Tenant have also agreed
to add additional unimproved land containing approximately 465,874 square feet.  

NOW THEREFORE,
for and in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and agreements
hereinafter contained to be kept and performed by the parties hereto and upon
the provisions and conditions hereinafter set forth, Authority and Tenant do
hereby covenant and agree, and each for itself does hereby covenant and agree,
as follows:  

SECTION 1.              Definitions  .    Except
as otherwise provided herein, and unless the context shall clearly require
otherwise, all words and terms used in this Twenty Sixth Supplemental Lease
Agreement which are defined in the Lease Agreement, shall, for all purposes of
this Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Lease Agreement, have the respective meanings
given to them in the Lease Agreement.  

SECTION 2.              Granting of Leasehold     .     In addition to the lease and demise
to Tenant of the land in the Lease Agreement, the Authority hereby leases and
demises to Tenant, and Tenant hereby takes and hires from Authority, subject to
the provisions and conditions set forth in the Lease Agreement and this
Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Lease Agreement, the additional lands described in Exhibit  A 
attached hereto and containing approximately 873,647 square feet or 20.0562
acres, and described in Exhibit  B  attached hereto containing
approximately 465,874 square feet or 10.695 acres.  

SECTION 3.              Term; Delivery and Acceptance of Possession  .    The
term of this Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Lease Agreement shall commence as
outlined in Section 4 for the land described in Exhibits  A  and   B  and shall expire at such time as the
Consolidated and Restated Lease Agreement dated August 1, 1979 shall
expire, to-wit:  August 31, 2012 or
upon such earlier termination, extension or otherwise as provided therein.  

4  

SECTION 4.              Rental  .  
 In addition and supplemental to the rentals required to be paid to
the Authority pursuant to Section 5 of the Lease Agreement (including all
prior Supplemental Lease Agreements), during the term of this Twenty-Sixth
Supplemental Lease Agreement, Tenant shall pay to the Authority in advance on
the first business day of each month equal rental installments as follows:  

The rental rate shall be adjusted upward by
fifteen (15%) for this leased area on February 1, 2008.  

The rental rate shall be adjusted upward by
twenty-five (25%) every five (5) years in accordance with the Base Lease
Agreement.  

SECTION 5.              Hazardous Substances/Waste     .     Tenant agrees to take the above parcels
included in this Supplement in an  as is  condition as it relates to Hazardous
Substances/Waste material that may be located at the site.  

Tenant, at its own expense, may arrange for a Phase I Environmental
Survey on the land described herein by a reputable environmental consultant to
determine the existence of  Hazardous Substances , as such term is defined in
this Agreement.  In the event that  Hazardous
Substances  are discovered during excavation for construction on the property
described in Exhibits  A     B , and those  Hazardous Substances 
require special handling, removal or disposal ( Remediation ), then Tenant
shall immediately notify Authority.  The
Tenant and Authority will confer and jointly determine the method of handling,
removing or disposing of the  Hazardous Substances  within 14  

5  

days after Tenant provides the
Authority, in writing, its plan for Remediation.  The form of Remediation agreed to by the
parties must comply with  Environmental Laws , as such term is defined
below.  In the event that Tenant and
Authority are unable to agree on a method for handling, removing or disposing
of the  Hazardous Substances  due to differing interpretations of the
requirements for Remediation as set forth in the applicable  Environmental Laws ,
then the form of Remediation will be determined by the appropriate federal,
state or local agency with relevant regulatory and enforcement jurisdiction
over the subject site.  Authority will
grant to Tenant a rent credit equal to the reasonable documented costs paid by
Tenant for the Remediation of such  Hazardous Substances  associated with the
property described in Exhibits  A     B .  

The term    Hazardous Substances   ,
as used in this Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Lease Agreement, shall mean any
hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes, including, but not limited
to, those substances, materials, and wastes (i) listed in the United
States Department of Transportation Hazardous Materials Table (49 CFR   172.101)
or by the Environmental Protection Agency as hazardous substances (40 CFR Part 302
and amendments thereto), (ii) designated as a  Hazardous Substance 
pursuant to Section 311 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C.   1251 et
seq. (33 U.S.C.   1321) or listed pursuant to Section 307 of the
Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C.   1317), (iii) defined as a  Hazardous
Waste  pursuant to Section 1004 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act, 42 U.S.C.   6901, et seq. (42 U.S.C.   6903), or (iv) defined
as  Hazardous Substance  pursuant to Section 101 of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, (42 U.S.C.   9601,
et seq. 42 U.S.C.   9601), or any other substances, (including, without
limitation, asbestos and raw materials which include hazardous constituents),
the general, discharge or removal of which or the use of which is restricted,
prohibited or penalized by any  

6  

Environmental Law , which term
shall mean any Federal, State or local law, regulation, or ordinance relating
to pollution or protection of the environment.  

SECTION 6.              Lease Agreement Still in Effect; Provisions Therefore
Applicable to this Supplemental Lease Agreement  .    All
of the terms, provisions, conditions, covenants and agreements of the Lease
Agreement, as supplemented, shall continue in full force and effect as
supplemented hereby, and shall be applicable to each of the provisions of this
Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Lease Agreement during the term hereof with the same
force and effect as though the provisions hereof were set forth in the Lease
Agreement.  

SECTION 7.              Descriptive Headings  .    The
descriptive headings of the sections of this Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Lease
Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and do not constitute
a part of this Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Lease Agreement and shall not
affect  meaning, construction,
interpretation or effect of this Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Lease Agreement.  

SECTION 8.              Effectiveness of this Supplemental Lease Agreement  .    This
Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Lease Agreement shall become effective as described
in Section 4.  

SECTION 9.              Execution of Counterparts  .    This
Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Lease Agreement may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which shall
constitute but one and the same instrument.  

SECTION 10.            Summaries  . 
  For the convenience of both
parties a Leased Parcel Summary and a Rental Summary are attached to this Lease
Agreement.  

7  

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, THE MEMPHIS-SHELBY COUNTY AIRPORT AUTHORITY AND FEDERAL
EXPRESS CORPORATION have caused this Twenty-Sixth Supplemental Lease Agreement
to be duly executed in their respective behalfs, as of the day and year first
above written.  

WITNESS:  

MEMPHIS-SHELBY COUNTY AIRPORT 
  AUTHORITY  

/s/ RICHARD V. WHITE  

BY:  

/s/ LARRY COX  

TITLE:
  Director of Properties  

TITLE:

President  

Approved as to Form and Legality:  

/s/ R. GRATTAN BROWN, JR.  

R. Grattan Brown, Jr., Attorney  

WITNESS:  

FEDERAL EXPRESS CORPORATION 
  A Delaware Corporation  

/s/ MARILYN JONES.  

BY:  

/s/ GRAHAM R. SMITH  

TITLE: Project Coordinator  

TITLE:  

Vice President, Properties and Facilities  

8  

(STATE OF TENNESSEE)  

  (COUNTY OF SHELBY)  

On
this 30th day of January, 2006 before me appeared Larry Cox, to me personally
known, who, being by me duly sworn (or affirmed), did say that he is the President
of the Memphis-Shelby County Airport Authority, the within named Lessor, and
that he as such President, being authorized so to do, executed the foregoing
instrument for the purposes therein contained, by signing the name of the
Authority by himself as such President.  

MY COMMISSION EXPIRES  

September 19,
  2007  

/s/ SHAWNITA
  L. NEELY  

Notary Public  

(seal)  

(STATE OF TENNESSEE)  

  (COUNTY OF SHELBY)  

On
this 24th day of January, 2006 before me appeared Graham R. Smith, to me
personally known, who, being by me duly sworn (or affirmed), did say that he is
a Vice President of Federal Express Corporation, the within named Lessee, and
that he as such Vice President, being authorized so to do, executed the
foregoing instrument for the purposes therein contained, by signing the name of
the Corporation by himself as such Vice President.  

MY COMMISSION EXPIRES  

September 19,
  2007  

/s/ MARILYN
  JONES  

Notary Public  

(seal)  

9  

[Attachments]  

10  

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 a06-7272_1ex10d2.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.2   

Amendment   

   to   

   FedEx Corporation   

   Incentive
Stock Plan   

   and   

   1997, 1999
and 2002 Stock Incentive Plans   

Incentive Stock Plan    

Effective with respect to stock options
granted on or after June 1, 2006,  Section 9(c)(4)(i)  of
the FedEx Corporation Incentive Stock Plan, as amended, is hereby amended so
that, as amended, it reads in its entirety as follows:  

(i)   Retirement .    Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, if a Participant s
employment or directorship terminates by reason of his or her retirement, the
Participant s Stock Option will cease vesting but, solely to the extent
exercisable at the time of the Participant s retirement, may thereafter be
exercised until the expiration of the stated period of the Stock Option;  provided ,
 however , that if the Participant dies after such termination of
employment or directorship, any unexercised Stock Option, to the extent to
which it was exercisable at the time of the Participant s death, may thereafter
be exercised by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of the
Stock Option under the last will for a period of twelve months from the date of
the Participant s death or until the expiration of the stated period of the
Stock Option, whichever period is the shorter.   

1997 and 2002 Stock Incentive Plans    

Effective with respect to stock options
granted on or after June 1, 2006, the first paragraph of  paragraph 6(d)  of
the FedEx Corporation 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, and the FedEx
Corporation 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, is hereby amended so that,
as amended, it reads in its entirety as follows:  

(d)   Rights After
Termination of Employment.   
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, if an optionee s
employment by the Corporation or a subsidiary or a director s directorship
terminates by reason of such person s retirement, the optionee s option will
cease vesting but, solely to the extent exercisable at the time of retirement,
may thereafter be exercised until the expiration of the stated period of the
option;   provided  ,   however  , that if the optionee dies after
such termination of employment or directorship, any unexercised option, to the
extent to which it was exercisable at the time of the optionee s death, may
thereafter be exercised by the legal representative of the estate or by the
legatee of the option under the last will for a period of twelve months from
the date of the optionee s death or until the expiration of the stated period
of the option, whichever period is the shorter.   

1999 Stock Incentive Plan    

Effective with respect to stock options granted on or after June 1,
2006, the first paragraph of  paragraph 6(d)  of the FedEx
Corporation 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, is hereby amended so that,
as amended, it reads in its entirety as follows:  

(d)   Rights  
  After Termination of Employment.    Unless otherwise determined by the Committee,
if an optionee s employment by the Corporation or a subsidiary terminates by
reason of such person s retirement, the optionee s option will cease vesting
but, solely to the extent exercisable at the time of retirement, may thereafter
be exercised until the expiration of the stated period of the option;   provided  ,   however  ,
that if the optionee dies after such termination of employment, any unexercised
option, to the extent to which it was exercisable at the time of the optionee s
death, may thereafter be exercised by the legal representative of the estate or
by the legatee of the option under the last will for a period of twelve months
from the date of the optionee s death or until the expiration of the stated
period of the option, whichever period is the shorter.   

Approved by the Compensation
Committee on January 8, 2006   

2  

</EX-10.2>

<EX-12.1>
 4
 a06-7272_1ex12d1.htm
 STATEMENTS REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

EXHIBIT
12.1   

     FEDEX
CORPORATION 
COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
(UNAUDITED) 
(IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT RATIOS)   

</EX-12.1>

<EX-15.1>
 5
 a06-7272_1ex15d1.htm
 LETTER RE UNAUDITED INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION

EXHIBIT 15.1   

  The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
FedEx Corporation  

  We are
aware of the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8
Nos. 33-20138, 33-38041, 33-55055, 333-03443, 333-45037,
333-71065, 333-34934, 333-55266, 333-100572, 333-111399,
333-121418, 333-130619 and Form S-3 No. 333-86342)
of FedEx Corporation and in the related Prospectuses, of our report dated March 21,
2006, relating to the unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial
statements of FedEx Corporation that are included in its Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended February 28, 2006.  

                                  /s/ Ernst  
Young LLP  

  Memphis, Tennessee 
March 24, 2006  

</EX-15.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 a06-7272_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.1   

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
RULES 13a-14(a) AND 15d-14(a) UNDER THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  I, Frederick W.
Smith, certify that:  

  1.                    I have reviewed
this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of FedEx Corporation (the  registrant  

  2.                    Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                    Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                    The registrant s
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have: 

  (a)             Designed such disclosure
controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to
be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

  (b)            Designed such internal
control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

  (c)             Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  (d)            Disclosed in this report
any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                    The registrant s
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  (a)             All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

  (b)            Any fraud, whether or not
material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant
role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

  Date: March 24,
2006  

/s/ Frederick W. Smith  

Frederick W. Smith  

Chairman, President and  

Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 a06-7272_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.2   

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
RULES 13a-14(a) AND 15d-14(a) UNDER THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  I, Alan B. Graf, Jr.,
certify that:  

  1.                    I have reviewed
this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of FedEx Corporation (the  registrant  

  2.                    Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                    Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                    The registrant s
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
registrant and have: 

  (a)             Designed such disclosure
controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to
be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

  (b)            Designed such internal
control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

  (c)             Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  (d)            Disclosed in this report
any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                    The registrant s
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  (a)             All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

  (b)            Any fraud, whether or not
material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant
role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

  Date: March 24,
2006  

/s/ Alan B.
  Graf, Jr.  

Alan B. Graf, Jr.  

Executive Vice President
  and  

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 a06-7272_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.1   

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  In
connection with the Quarterly Report of FedEx Corporation ( FedEx ) on Form 10-Q
for the period ended February 28, 2006 as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Frederick W. Smith,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

  (1)            The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

  (2)            The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of FedEx. 

  Date: March 24,
2006  

/s/ Frederick W. Smith 

Frederick W. Smith  

Chairman, President and  

Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 a06-7272_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.2   

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  In
connection with the Quarterly Report of FedEx Corporation ( FedEx ) on Form 10-Q
for the period ended February 28, 2006 as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Alan B. Graf, Jr.,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

  (1)            The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

  (2)            The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of FedEx. 

  Date: March 24,
2006  

/s/ Alan B. Graf, Jr. 

Alan B. Graf, Jr.  

Executive Vice President
  and  

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32.2>

