<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060210_10-Q_edgar_data_1319439_0000950144-06-001045_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>304918</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>85793</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>134346</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>21</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950144-06-001045.hdr.sgml : 20060210
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060210161207
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950144-06-001045
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060210
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060210

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001319439
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				752725552
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			TX
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-51445
		FILM NUMBER:		06598772

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		425 MAIN STREET
		CITY:			CHESTER
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07930
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(908) 879-1400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		425 MAIN STREET
		CITY:			CHESTER
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07930

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	Adams Laboratories, Inc.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20050302

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20050301

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 VF/rmtNez0f/wlYXhZV5/LmUtemZ2AKMR4mtAdy7QS9wse+cw+SwKRRZSJfxX/gX
 QbqzetCc2klKKY+QIr0hVQ==

 0000950144-06-001045.txt : 20060210

10-Q
 1
 g99548e10vq.htm
 ADAMS RESPIRATORY THERAPEUTICS, INC.

ADAMS RESPIRATORY THERAPEUTICS, INC. 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2005 

Or 

For the transition period from                        to                        

Commission file number: 000-51445 

ADAMS RESPIRATORY THERAPEUTICS, INC. 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) 

Delaware 
(State or Other Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or Organization) 

75-2725552 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

425 Main Street 
Chester, New Jersey 07930 
(Address of principal executive offices including zip code) 

(908) 879-1400 
(Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

Indicate by check mark whether the issuer (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
Large accelerated filer                Accelerated filer                Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act). 
Yes     No    

Number of shares of common stock, par value $0.01, outstanding as of February 5, 2006:
34,264,601 shares.

ADAMS RESPIRATORY THERAPEUTICS, INC. 

INDEX 

Table of Contents   

PART I     FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Some of the statements made under the heading  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, beliefs and current views with respect
to, among other things, future events and financial performance. We often identify these
forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as  believe,   expect, 
 potential,   continue,   may,   will,   should,   could,   would,   seek,   predict,   intend, 
 plan,   estimate,   anticipate  or the negative version of those words or other
comparable words. Specifically, this report contains, among others, forward-looking statements
regarding:

the increase in stock compensation expense and the reduction in the expected life of
our stock options; 

our involvement in litigation having a material adverse impact on our business,
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows; 

our obligations related to product returns; 

our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials, including guaifenesin and dextromethorphan; 

our intentions related to repurchasing the Fort Worth, Texas manufacturing assets and operations; 

our expectations of the seasonality of Mucinex sales and related revenue fluctuations; 

our intentions to market additional products, grow our business and expand our product portfolio; 

our ability to meet our anticipated operating needs with our revenues; 

the timing of the United States Patent and Trademark Office s, or USPTO s,
reexamination of the patentability of our delivery system for guaifenesin and our ability
to prevail in the reexamination process; 

our reliance on and continued consolidation of our top customers; 

our expectations of increased pricing pressures; 

our ability to leverage our brand name; and 

our exposure to credit rate and interest rate risk. 

Any forward-looking statements contained in this quarterly report are based upon our
historical performance and on current plans, estimates and expectations. The inclusion of this
forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person
that the future plans, estimates or expectations contemplated by us will be achieved. Such
forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. In addition, there are
or will be important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in
the forward-looking statements. We believe these factors include, but are not limited to, those
described in Part II, Item IA. Risk Factors.

These cautionary statements should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in
conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this quarterly report.
Moreover, we operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risks and
uncertainties emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict these new risks or uncertainties,
nor can it assess the impact, if any, that any such risks or uncertainties may have on our business
or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ
from those projected in any forward-looking statement. Accordingly, the risks and uncertainties to
which we are subject can be expected to change over time, and we undertake no obligation to update
publicly or review the risks or uncertainties described herein. We also undertake no obligation to
update publicly or review any of the forward-looking statements made in this quarterly report,
whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

3

Table of Contents   

If one or more of the risks or uncertainties referred to in this quarterly report materialize,
or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from
what we projected. Any forward-looking statements you read in this quarterly report reflect our
current views with respect to future events and are subject to these and other risks, uncertainties
and assumptions relating to our operations, financial condition, growth strategy and liquidity. You
should specifically consider the factors identified in this quarterly
report and in our final prospectus filed with the SEC pursuant to
Rule 424(b) on December 9, 2005
that could cause
actual results to differ. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary
statements. In addition, with respect to all of our forward-looking statements, we claim the
protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

As used herein, except as otherwise indicated by the context, references to  we,   us,   our, 
or the  Company  refer to Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

4

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. 

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

(Amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are an integral part of these statements.

5

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Consolidated Statements of Operations 

(Amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are an integral part of these statements.

6

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Consolidated Statement of Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock and Stockholders  Equity (Deficit) 

(Amounts in thousands) 

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are an integral part of these statements.

7

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

(Amounts in thousands) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are an integral part of these statements.

8

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts) 

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Basis of Presentation  

The Company operates in one business segment, specialty pharmaceuticals. The Company s  fiscal
year  is from July 1 through June 30. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform
to the current year presentation.

The unaudited consolidated financial statements presented herein have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial reporting and with
the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include
all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles for
complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all
adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that are considered necessary for a
fair presentation of the Company s financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the
interim periods. Operating results for the three and six months ended December 31, 2005 are not
necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending June 30, 2006. For a
better understanding of the Company and its financial statements, the Company recommends reading
these unaudited financial statements and notes in conjunction with the audited financial statements
and notes to those financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2005, which are included in our
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005.

Principles of Consolidation  

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Adams Respiratory Therapeutics,
Inc. and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated. In June 2005, the Company incorporated Adams Respiratory Therapeutics Products, Inc.
and Adams Respiratory Therapeutics Commercial Operations, Inc. as wholly-owned subsidiaries.

Use of Estimates  

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States, which require the use of judgments and estimates by management that
affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual
results may differ from those estimates.

Intangible Assets  

During fiscal year 2004, the Company paid $1,250 to enter into a development and license
agreement with Pharmaceuticals Design L.L.C. ( PD ) for the rights to market respiratory products
in patent-protected packaging configurations. In July 2005, the Company decided not to go forward
with the development and license agreement with PD. To terminate this agreement, the Company paid
and expensed $500 to selling, marketing and administrative expenses during the first quarter of
fiscal year 2006. In addition, the Company wrote off the related intangible asset with a net book
value of $900 to selling, marketing and administrative expenses as of June 30, 2005.

In December 2004, the Company entered into an agreement with JMED Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
( JMED ), an affiliate of PD, for the ability to transfer the AlleRx  license to Cornerstone
Biopharma, Inc. ( Cornerstone ). The Company paid $2,000 in January 2005 towards the acquisition of
this license, which is being amortized over five years. Upon completion of a valuation of the
future royalties under the license agreement, JMED will have the right to either (i) convert the
valuation amount in excess of the $2,000, if any, into the Company s common stock at the initial
public offering price, in which case the Company will become entitled to future AlleRx  royalties
or (ii) continue to receive the future AlleRx  royalties and JMED will pay the Company
40% of future royalties, up to a maximum of $1,000.

9

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)   (continued) 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts) 

In
connection with the AlleRx  license transfer agreement with JMED, in February 2005, the Company entered into an agreement with
Cornerstone in which it received the Humibid trademarks from Cornerstone and Cornerstone received
the AlleRx  trademarks from the Company. Additionally, the parties released each other from all
claims and damages in a lawsuit that the Company filed in 2004. As part of this arrangement, the
Company is contractually obligated to assume the financial responsibility for the first $1,000 of
returned AlleRx  product that was sold by the Company prior to February 15, 2005 and returned to Cornerstone
during the 18-month period beginning February 15, 2005. Conversely, Cornerstone is financially
responsible for the first $1,000 of Humibid product returns for the same 18-month period. After the
$1,000 threshold is met, the Company will have the responsibility for all Humibid product returns,
whether sold by it or Cornerstone, and Cornerstone will bear the same liability for AlleRx 
products. In connection with this agreement, the Company is obligated to pay to Cornerstone a
royalty ranging from 1% to 2% of net Humibid sales for a period of three years after February 15,
2005, with an annual minimum royalty payment of $50.

The Company recorded a $3,000 intangible asset, which represents the fair value of the Humibid
trademark, and a corresponding $3,000 liability that the Company assumed in the transaction. The
liability assumed represents the assumed returns liability in excess of the $1,000 threshold in
this transaction. This asset is being amortized over its remaining estimated useful life of 15
years. The $3,000 liability is recorded in accrued returns, chargebacks, rebates and other sales
allowances. As of December 31, 2005, the first $1,000 of Humibid
inventory had been returned and was
recorded in prepaid expenses and other assets as a receivable due from Cornerstone.

Other Assets  

Included
in Other Assets as of December 31, 2005 was $1,000 of restricted cash as collateral
for the Company's letter of credit for its new office facility in Chester, New Jersey.

At June 30, 2005, there were $1,697 of deferred offering costs included in intangibles and
other assets. An additional $694 was incurred during the six months ended December 31, 2005. These
costs are specific incremental costs directly attributable to the initial public offering. The
total deferred offering costs of $2,391 were applied against the proceeds of the initial public offering.

Income Taxes  

Income taxes are recorded in the Company s quarterly consolidated financial statements based
on the Company s estimated annual effective income tax rate. The effective rates used in the
calculation of income taxes were 38.7% and 38.9% for the three months ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively, and 38.6% and 38.8% for the six months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Revenue Recognition  

The Company recognizes product sales when title and risk of loss have transferred to the
customer, when estimated provisions for product returns, rebates, chargebacks and other sales
allowances are reasonably determinable and when collectibility is reasonably assured. Accruals for
these provisions are presented in the financial statements as reductions to sales.

Sales Returns and Allowances  

When the Company s products are sold, the Company reduces the amount of revenue recognized
from such sale by an estimate of future product returns and other sales allowances. Other sales
allowances include cash discounts, rebates, including Medicaid rebates, chargebacks, trade
promotions and sales incentives relating to product sold in the current period.

Factors that are considered in the estimates of future product returns include an estimate of
the amount of product in the trade channel, competitive products, the remaining time to expiration
of the product, and the historical rate of returns.

10

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)   (continued) 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Consistent with industry practice, the Company maintains a return policy that allows its
customers to return product within a specified period prior and subsequent to the expiration
date.

Factors that are considered in the estimates regarding other sales allowances include
historical payment experience in relationship to revenues, estimated customer inventory levels and
current contract prices and terms with both direct and indirect customers.

The provision for chargebacks represents the amount payable in the future to a wholesaler for
the difference between the invoice price paid to the Company by its wholesale customer for a
particular product and the negotiated contract price that the wholesaler s customer pays for that
product. The chargeback estimates take into consideration the current average chargeback rates by
product and estimates wholesaler inventory levels. The Company continually monitors its assumptions,
giving consideration to current pricing trends and estimated wholesaler inventory levels and makes
adjustments to these estimates when it believes that the actual chargeback amounts payable in the
future will differ from its original estimate.

Rebates and sales incentives are recognized as a reduction of sales at the later of (i) the
date at which the related revenue is recorded or (ii) the date at which the incentives are offered.
Trade promotions include co-operative advertising arrangements and are recorded as a reduction of
sales when the related revenue is recorded. In November 2005, the Company issued coupons that
expired January 31, 2006. The Company estimates the cost of rebates, sales incentives and trade
promotions based on its historical experience with similar programs.

If actual future payments for product returns and other sales allowances exceed the estimates
the Company made at the time of sale, its financial position, results of operations and cash flow
would be negatively impacted.

Cardinal Health Profit Share Arrangement  

On April 1, 2004, the Company sold substantially all of its manufacturing assets located in
Fort Worth, Texas to Cardinal Health PTS, LLC ( Cardinal Health ). In connection with the sale of its manufacturing assets, the
Company entered into a supply agreement (the  Supply Agreement ) with Cardinal Health, whereby
Cardinal Health manufactures substantially all of the Company s products. Under the Supply
Agreement, Cardinal Health is required to segregate direct manufacturing costs from indirect
manufacturing costs, as defined in the Supply Agreement. As finished goods are completed and shipped to a
Company-designated warehouse, Cardinal Health bills the Company for the actual direct manufacturing
costs incurred plus a mark-up percentage. The mark-up percentage is strictly provided for interim
billing and cash flow purposes and the final amount payable to Cardinal Health is calculated at the
end of each contract year (March 31st) under a profit sharing formula. The amount that is subject
to the profit sharing is calculated as net sales, as defined in the Supply Agreement, less the
actual manufacturing cost of the goods sold during the contract year less freight and other
logistics costs. The resulting gross profit is subject to profit sharing rates that decline as the
total value of gross profit increases. At the end of the contract year, a reconciliation is
completed and a billing adjustment is made to the extent that the actual calculated profit share is
greater or lower than the total mark-up paid to Cardinal Health during the contract year. A true-up
of the actual profit share amounts earned is compared to payments made to Cardinal Health at each
March 31. The Company also makes estimates of the profit share amount earned by Cardinal Health at
each balance sheet date and compares that to the payments made to Cardinal Health. The Company
records a receivable or payable for the difference. At December 31, 2005, the Company had a
receivable of $3,895 as a result of the mark-up billed by Cardinal Health exceeding the estimated
March 31, 2006 contract year effective profit share amount, which is included in prepaid expenses
and other assets.

The accounting policy with regard to this arrangement is to record the actual direct
manufacturing cost and estimated profit share as inventory. Each month as  product is sold, the
actual direct manufacturing cost plus the estimate of the profit share amount earned by Cardinal
Health is charged to cost of sales. The estimated profit share amount considers for each contract
year (i) the Company s projected net product sales and gross profit, (ii) the projected profit
share and (iii) the contractual minimum profit share amount.

The Company is considering exercising its option to repurchase the Fort Worth, Texas
manufacturing assets and operations back from Cardinal Health and may use a portion of the proceeds
from the Company s initial public offering for the repurchase.

11

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)   (continued) 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Concentration of Credit Risk  

The Company sells its products principally to wholesalers and retailers, including mass
merchandisers, grocery stores, membership clubs, and drug stores throughout the United States. The
Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers  financial condition and generally
requires no collateral from its customers. Beginning in fiscal year 2005, as a result of increased Mucinex sales, the Company reduced its concentration levels with certain customers and now sells to
a combination of wholesalers, major retailers and mass merchandisers. The table below outlines the
percentage of gross sales made to the following customers for the six months ended:

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  

Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
( SFAS ) No. 123(R)    Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No. 123(R) ), which expands and clarifies SFAS No.
123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  as amended by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation   Transition and Disclosure  ( SFAS No. 123 ), in several areas. The Company elected
the prospective method for all grants in fiscal year 2006. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No.
123(R), the Company accounted for stock-based compensation in accordance with the fair value
recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 for stock-based employee compensation. The Company uses the
graded-vesting methodology to record the stock-based compensation expense over the vesting period,
which generally ranges from three to five years. This methodology results in a greater amount of
expense recognized towards the beginning of the vesting period as opposed to the straight-line
method. Because subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in
management s opinion, the existing methods do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of
the fair value of the Company s stock options.

Prior to fiscal year 2006, the Company accounted for its stock-based compensation using the
minimum value method as permitted for nonpublic companies under SFAS No. 123. However, after the
Company s July 20, 2005 initial public offering, the Company is no longer considered  nonpublic 
and had to consider a volatility assumption in the calculation of fair value. Because the Company
does not have much history as a public company to support its estimate of future volatility, a
combination of peer companies in its industry with similar business cycles was used. This
volatility assumption was used on options granted after July 20, 2005. The addition of this
assumption materially increased the fair value of subsequent option grants.

Other, net  

For the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, Other, net primarily consisted of
interest income of $1,586 and $158, respectively. For the six months ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, Other, net primarily consisted of interest income of $2,537 and $295, respectively.

12

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

<!-- link1 "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)   (continued)  ($ in thousands, except per share amounts)" -->

  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)   (continued) 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Income/(Loss) per Common Share  

Basic net income/(loss) per common share ( Basic EPS ) is computed by dividing net
income/(loss) applicable to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares
outstanding. Diluted net income/(loss) per common share ( Diluted EPS ) is computed by dividing net
income/(loss) applicable to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares
outstanding, plus potential dilutive common shares. The following table sets forth the computation
of basic and diluted income per common share:

The following table shows common share equivalents outstanding for the period, which are not
included in the above historical calculations, as the effect of their inclusion is anti-dilutive
during each period:

2. Benefit Plan 

The Company provides a 401(k) benefit plan (the  Plan ) covering substantially all employees.
Under the Plan, employees are eligible to participate in the Plan upon attaining the age of 21 and
completing six months of service and can contribute up to 80% of their compensation each year
subject to certain Internal Revenue Code limitations. The board of directors approved a match on
employee contributions made during calendar year 2005, contingent upon an established sales
threshold for fiscal year 2005. The match is on employee contributions starting on January 1, 2005.
A match of $102 was accrued on the deferrals from January 1,
2005 to December 31, 2005, primarily
in selling, marketing and administrative expenses. Of that total match, $2 and $41 was expensed for
the three and six months ended December 31, 2005, respectively.

13

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)   (continued) 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts) 

3. Stockholders  Equity (Deficit) 

Initial Public Offering  

In July 2005, the Company completed its initial public offering of 9,142,500 shares of common
stock at a price of $17.00 per share. The offering consisted of 6,889,500 newly issued shares sold
by the Company and 2,253,000 shares sold by selling stockholders. The offering generated gross proceeds of
approximately $117,000 and net proceeds of $106,672. Upon completion of the initial public
offering, all three series of redeemable convertible preferred stock were converted into 17,533,696
shares of common stock.

Secondary Offering  

In December 2005, the Company completed a secondary offering of 5,660,890 shares of its common
stock. All of the shares sold were sold by selling stockholders. The Company did not sell any
shares in, or receive any proceeds from, the secondary offering. The Company paid approximately
$700 of legal, printing, audit and other costs related to the secondary offering, which is included
in selling, marketing and administrative expense.

Stock Compensation Plan  

In March 2005, the board of directors adopted, and in May 2005 the stockholders adopted, the
2005 Incentive Plan. Under the terms of the 2005 Incentive Plan, employees, directors and others
designated by the board of directors may be granted awards in the form of incentive stock options,
nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance awards, restricted stock, stock
units, dividend equivalents or other stock-based awards at the discretion of the compensation
committee of the board of directors. Prior to the Company s initial public offering, the Company
issued awards under the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan, which had similar features to the 2005
Incentive Plan. The board of directors decided not to grant any additional awards pursuant to this
plan after completion of the Company s offering.

The 2005 Incentive Plan is administered by the compensation committee. The compensation
committee has the authority to designate participants, determine the type or types of awards to be
granted to each participant and the number, terms and conditions of award. Options granted are
subject to a vesting term, generally over three to five years from the grant date. Options are
granted for a fixed number of shares with an exercise price equal to the fair value at the date of
grant. For options granted prior to the Company s initial public offering on July 20, 2005, the
fair value was based on valuations performed by management and approved by the board of directors.
For options granted on or after July 20, 2005, the fair value of the stock was equal to the NASDAQ
closing price at the date of grant. New shares are issued upon exercise of the stock options.

Because the Company does not have sufficient history as a public company to support its
estimate of future volatility, the historical volatility of a combination of peer companies of
similar nature and size were used to calculate the volatility assumption. The addition of the
volatility assumption significantly increased the stock compensation expense from fiscal year 2005
to 2006, and this trend is expected to continue.

In estimating the expected life of the options, the Company considered the vesting period of
the grants, historical exercise patterns, the expected volatility of
the stock, the lockup
periods related to the public offerings, and employees  ages and years of service. The Company reduced the expected life of the
options from six years for fiscal year 2005 and prior down to
approximately five years for those grants in fiscal
year 2006 subsequent to the initial public offering. The Company assumed that options would be exercised
sooner, because there is now a market for the stock and the increased stock volatility is expected
to result in increased exercise activity in future periods when the lock-up periods expire.

The Company uses the graded vesting methodology to record compensation expense over the
vesting period. This methodology results in a greater amount of expense recognized towards the
beginning of the vesting period as opposed to the straight-line method. Because subjective input
assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management s opinion, the existing
methods do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its stock
options.

14

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)   (continued) 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts) 

The Company recorded stock compensation expense of $1,134 and $90 for the three months ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and $2,177 and $179 for the six months ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively, primarily in selling, marketing and administrative expenses. The tax
benefit recognized on the stock compensation expense for the three and six months ended December
31, 2005 was $102 and $433, respectively, and related to the nonqualified stock options granted
during the period and disqualifying dispositions upon the exercise of incentive stock options.
Compensation cost not yet recognized as of December 31, 2005 was $7,185 and is expected to be
recognized over the next weighted average of 1.8 years.

The following weighted-average assumptions were used in the calculation of fair value of
options granted in the respective periods:

A summary of the Company s stock option activity and related information is as follows:

The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options as of
December 31, 2005:

15

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)   (continued) 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts) 

The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax
intrinsic value based on the Company s closing price of $40.66 as of December 30, 2005, which would
have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options as of that
date.

The weighted-average grant date fair value per option for the following groups of options as
of December 31, 2005 was:

During the six months ended December 31, 2005, 4,637 restricted stock units were granted to
certain of the Company s board members at a weighted average fair value of $24.39. During the
period, 491 restricted stock units with a fair value of $17.00 were forfeited upon retirement of a
board member. The restricted stock units vest in full at the first annual stockholders  meeting
following the date of grant. Upon vesting, the restricted stock units will automatically convert
into deferred stock units, which will not be converted into the Company s common stock until six
months following a director s termination of board service. The fair value of the restricted
stock units is determined by using the grant date closing market price of the Company s common
stock. Stock compensation expense included $71 and $105 of expense associated with the restricted
stock units for the three and six months ended December 31, 2005, respectively.

Warrants  

At
December 31, 2005, the Company had the following outstanding warrants to purchase common
stock:

These warrants have a term ranging from five to ten years, with the first warrants expiring in
July 2006 and the last warrants expiring in June 2013.

4. Commitments and Contingencies 

The Company has obligations under noncancelable operating leases for buildings and certain
equipment expiring in various years through August 2014. Future rental commitments are primarily
for the office building in Chester, New Jersey, which terminates August 2014. In October 2005, the
Company entered into a twelve-year operating lease for a new office facility in Chester, New
Jersey, which will commence on or about March 1, 2006. The first three years  rent is fixed at $816
per year and increases to $872 in years four through six; $920 in years seven through nine; and
$1,000 in years ten through twelve. The Company is currently considering its plans for its existing
facility in Chester, New Jersey.

In connection with the Supply Agreement, the Company is obligated to pay a minimum profit
share to Cardinal Health of $3,000 each year for the contract years ending March 31, 2006 and 2007.
As of December 31, 2005, the Company had exceeded the minimum profit share amount to Cardinal
Health for the contract year ending March 31, 2006.

The Company is a party to various claims and suits arising out of matters occurring during the
normal course of business. However, as of December 31, 2005,
there was no current proceeding or
litigation involving the Company that the

16

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)   (continued) 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Company believes will have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

On May 7, 2004, the Company filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York against Carolina Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Carolina ). The Company filed an
amended complaint on October 25, 2004, which added Cornerstone as a defendant. The amended
complaint alleged trademark, false advertising and unfair competition claims and sought damages and
injunctive relief. Carolina and Cornerstone filed counterclaims against the Company, alleging that
the Company s activities with respect to its single-entity Mucinex product violate the
anti-monopoly provisions of the federal antitrust laws, that the Company had engaged in false
advertising in violation of federal law with respect to single-entity Mucinex and the Company s
AlleRx  and Aquatab products, and that the Company had violated state law in competing with the
products of Carolina and Cornerstone. In February 2005, the Company entered into an agreement with
Cornerstone in which it received the Humibid trademarks from Cornerstone and Cornerstone received
the AlleRx  trademarks from the Company. Additionally, the parties released each other from all
claims and damages in the lawsuit. As part of this arrangement, the Company is contractually
obligated to assume the financial responsibility for the first $1,000 of returned AlleRx  product
that was sold by the Company prior to February 15, 2005 and returned to Cornerstone during the
18-month period beginning February 15, 2005. Conversely, Cornerstone is financially responsible for
the first $1,000 of Humibid product returns for the same 18-month period. After the $1,000
threshold is met, the Company will have the responsibility for all Humibid product returns, whether
sold by the Company or Cornerstone, and Cornerstone will bear the same liability for AlleRx 
products. In connection with this agreement, the Company is obligated to pay Cornerstone a royalty
ranging from 1% to 2% of net Humibid sales for a period of three years after February 15, 2005.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, a major wholesaler indicated that they were in
possession of a significant amount of Humibid prescription inventory. The Company is currently
evaluating whether it is responsible for these returns under the agreement with Cornerstone. The
Company believes it can defend its position in accordance with the agreement; however, if it is
determined that the Company is obligated for these returns, there could be an additional charge to
pretax earnings of up to $3,600.

In March 2004, the Company entered into a development and license agreement with PD, an
affiliate of JMED, in which the Company licensed certain intellectual property to commercialize
certain respiratory products. Pursuant to the agreement, the Company paid PD $1,250. In July 2005,
the Company decided not to go forward with the agreement. As a result, the Company paid and
expensed $500 to selling, marketing and administrative expenses in the first quarter of fiscal year
2006.

In December 2004, the Company entered into an agreement with JMED for the ability to transfer
the AlleRx  license agreement to Cornerstone, and the Company paid JMED $2,000 in January 2005. In
connection with the PD License agreement, JMED was granted the right to convert its on-going
royalty interest in the AlleRx  product to the Company s common stock in the event of a public
offering or change of control of the Company. The assignment of the JMED agreement to Cornerstone
provided that JMED had the right to exchange its royalty interest for the Company s common stock,
as outlined under the PD license agreement. The valuation of the on-going royalty was scheduled to
be performed prior to March 31, 2005. The parties have waived the March 31, 2005 deadline and are
currently working toward obtaining a valuation. To the extent that the final appraisal exceeds the
$2,000 previously paid, JMED will have the right to convert the excess into the Company s common
stock at the price per share in the initial public offering. Upon conversion of JMED s royalty interest
into the Company s common stock, the Company will become the recipient of future royalties earned
under the license agreement. If JMED does not elect to convert the excess royalty interest into the
Company s common stock, JMED will continue to collect royalties under the license agreement and the
Company will be paid 40% of such royalties, up to a maximum of $1,000.

During fiscal year 2004, Cardinal Health s supplier of dextromethorphan, an active ingredient
in Mucinex DM, notified Cardinal Health that they will be exiting the dextromethorphan
manufacturing business. At such time, Cardinal Health requested of the supplier, and the supplier
agreed, to commit to supplying Cardinal Health with an approximate four-year supply of
dextromethorphan. Cardinal Health has made a commitment to the dextromethorphan supplier and is
obligated to take delivery of the material over the course of three years beginning in September
2004. The Company provided Cardinal Health with a letter agreement, dated September 30, 2004,
stating that the Company will reimburse Cardinal Health for Cardinal Health s cost in obtaining any
unused quantities of dextromethorphan at the first to occur of (i) expiration of the material or
(ii) six years from the date of the letter agreement. In November 2005, the Company agreed to
extend this contract to purchase an additional 45 metric tons of dextromethorphan through 2009,
which the Company

17

Table of Contents   

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)   (continued) 
($ in thousands, except per share amounts) 

believes will meet its needs for at least the next four and one-half years. As of December 31,
2005, the remaining commitment for the entire contract was approximately $14,200.

Cardinal Health obtains all of the guaifenesin for the Company s products from two suppliers,
Boehringer Ingelheim Chemicals, Inc. ( Boehringer Ingelheim ) and Delta Synthetic Co., LTD
( Delta ). According to Cardinal Health s agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim, which expires in
June 2006, Cardinal Health must purchase all of the guaifenesin used in Mucinex SE and at least 90%
of the guaifenesin used in the Company s products produced under all subsequent New Drug
Applications. The Company recently received Food and Drug
Administration ("FDA") approval to use Delta as
a supplier of guaifenesin. Cardinal Health is currently purchasing guaifenesin from Delta and
Boehringer Ingelheim due to Boehringer Ingelheim s failure to supply the required amounts under the
Company s agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim.

18

Table of Contents   

ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations
should be read in conjunction with the MD A, financial statements and related notes included in our
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, together with our financial
statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Some of the information
contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this document, including
information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes
forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You
should review Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this quarterly report
and the heading  Risk Factors  in our final prospectus
filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b) on December 9, 2005 for a discussion of
important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results
described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and
analysis. 

Overview  

We are a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on late-stage development, commercialization
and marketing of over-the-counter, or OTC, and prescription pharmaceuticals for the treatment of respiratory disorders.
We currently market three products: Mucinex SE, Mucinex DM and Mucinex D.

Mucinex SE.  Mucinex SE is a long-acting, single-ingredient guaifenesin OTC product and the
only single-ingredient, long-acting guaifenesin product approved by the FDA. The FDA approved
Mucinex SE in July 2002.

Mucinex DM.  Mucinex DM is an OTC product containing long-acting guaifenesin and the cough
suppressant dextromethorphan and is the only FDA-approved, long-acting guaifenesin and
dextromethorphan combination product. The FDA approved Mucinex DM in April 2004.

Mucinex D . Mucinex D is an OTC product containing long-acting guaifenesin and the decongestant
pseudoephedrine and is the only FDA-approved, long-acting guaifenesin and pseudoephedrine
combination product. The FDA approved Mucinex D in June 2004, and we began to market Mucinex D in
October 2005.

Future Products.  We have three additional products that have been approved by the FDA that we
intend to market under the Humibid brand name in the future: a maximum strength long-acting,
single-ingredient guaifenesin OTC product; a maximum strength OTC combination product containing
long-acting guaifenesin and dextromethorphan; and a maximum strength OTC combination product
containing long-acting guaifenesin and pseudoephedrine. Like Mucinex SE, Mucinex DM and Mucinex D,
these additional products are the only FDA-approved products of their kind. We also intend to
launch a line of immediate release guaifenesin pediatric products under the Mucinex brand name.

Seasonality . We expect retail demand for our products to be higher between October 1 and March
31 due to the prevalence of cough, cold and flu. As a result, our shipments, and therefore
revenues, are expected to be higher between July 1 and March 31 to support the retail demand
through that season. We generally expect our revenues during the quarter ended June 30 to be lower
than the other quarters.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.  Effective July 1, 2005, we adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard ( SFAS ) No. 123(R)    Share-Based Payment , or SFAS No. 123(R), which
expands and clarifies SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , as amended by SFAS No.
148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   Transition and Disclosure , in several areas. We
elected the prospective method for all grants in fiscal year 2006. Prior to the adoption of SFAS
123(R), we accounted for stock-based compensation in accordance with the fair value recognition
provisions of SFAS No. 123 for stock-based employee compensation. We used the graded-vesting
methodology to record the stock-based compensation expense over the vesting period, which generally
ranges from three to five years. This methodology results in a greater amount of expense recognized
towards the beginning of the vesting period as opposed to the straight-line method. Because
subjective input assumptions can materially affect

19

Table of Contents   

the fair value estimate, in management s opinion, the existing methods do not necessarily
provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of our stock options.

Prior to fiscal year 2006, we accounted for our stock-based compensation using the minimum
value method as permitted for nonpublic companies under SFAS No. 123. However, after our July 20,
2005 initial public offering, we are no longer considered  nonpublic  and had to consider a
volatility assumption in the calculation of fair value. Because we do not have sufficient history
as a public company to support an estimate of future volatility, we used a combination of peer
companies in our industry with similar business cycles. We used this volatility assumption on
options granted after July 20, 2005. The addition of this assumption materially increased the fair
value of subsequent option grants.

We have made no material changes to our other critical accounting policies, which are included
in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005.

Results of Operations  

Three Months Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2004 

Net Sales.  Net sales increased by $27.1 million to $63.2 million for the three months ended
December 31, 2005, as compared to $36.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2004. The
increase in net sales was primarily due to the impact of our consumer advertising campaign and the
launch of Mucinex D. Net sales during the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004
approximated 92% of gross sales.

The following table sets forth our net sales for the three months ended December 31, 2005 and
December 31, 2004:

Cost of Goods Sold.  Cost of goods sold increased by $6.8 million to $13.9 million for the
three months ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $7.1 million for the three months ended
December 31, 2004. Cost of goods sold increased in dollar terms primarily as a result of the
increase in Mucinex SE and Mucinex DM sales and the launch of Mucinex D. As a percentage of net
sales, cost of goods sold during the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 totaled
approximately 22.0% and 19.8%, respectively. The increase in the
percentage was due to the increased
sales of higher cost products, such as Mucinex D and products packaged within display units, coupled
with higher costs created by the inefficiencies in the production facility due to the limited
guaifenesin supply. For the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, cost of goods sold
included $2.7 million and $1.9 million, respectively, of profit share earned by Cardinal Health.

Selling, Marketing and Administrative.  Selling, marketing and administrative expenses
increased by $6.8 million to $29.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2005, as
compared to $22.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2004. The increase during the
three months ended December 31, 2005 was primarily due to: (i) approximately $2.5 million associated
with various sales and marketing programs, including the training and systems for the 50 additional
sales representatives hired in December 2004, professional marketing expenses, expansion of the
trade sales department, and spending on the new consumer advertising campaign; (ii) $2.0 million of
general and administrative expenses primarily related to new headcount, information technology and
insurance; (iii) an increase of $877,000 for stock-based compensation; (iv) approximately $727,000
of additional expense related to distribution and shipping on the
increased volume of Mucinex sales; and (v)
$700,000 for legal, printing, audit and other costs related to the secondary offering. The increase
in stock-based compensation was primarily due to the consideration of a volatility assumption in the
calculation of fair value for the fiscal year 2006 stock option grants.

20

Table of Contents   

Product Development.  Product development expenses increased by $2.5 million to $4.1 million
during the three months ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $1.6 million for the three months
ended December 31, 2004. The increase for the three months ended December 31, 2005 was due to
spending on Mucinex line extensions and start-up of the erdosteine Phase II clinical programs.

Other, net.  Other, net increased by $1.7 million to $1.9 million during the three months
ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $133,000 for the three months ended December 31, 2004. The
increase during the three months ended December 31, 2005 was primarily due to higher interest income
reflecting earnings on the increased cash balances, which include the cash received from the
initial public offering, coupled with higher interest rates.

Income Taxes.  Income tax expense for the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 was
$6.7 million and $1.8 million, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 was 38.7% and 38.9%, respectively.

Accretion of Preferred Stock.  Accretion of our redeemable convertible preferred stock for the
three months ended December 31, 2004 was $62.8 million, which reflects the adjustment to accrete
the redeemable convertible preferred stock to fair value. Upon the closing of our initial public
offering in July 2005, our redeemable convertible preferred stock converted into shares of common
stock and, as a result, there was no accretion during the three months ended December 31, 2005.

Six Months Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Six Months Ended December 31, 2004 

Net Sales.  Net sales increased by $48.2 million to $110.3 million for the six months ended
December 31, 2005, as compared to $62.0 million for the six months ended December 31, 2004. The
increase in net sales was primarily due to the impact of our initial consumer advertising campaign
and the launch of Mucinex D. Net sales during the six months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004
approximated 91% and 87% of gross sales, respectively.

The following table sets forth our net sales for the six months ended December 31, 2005 and
December 31, 2004:

Cost of Goods Sold.  Cost of goods sold increased by $9.0 million to $22.4 million for the six
months ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $13.4 million for the six months ended December 31,
2004. Cost of goods sold increased in dollar terms primarily as a result of the increase in Mucinex
SE and Mucinex DM sales and the launch of Mucinex D. As a percentage of net sales, cost of goods
sold during the six months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 totaled approximately 20.4% and 21.5%,
respectively. The decrease in the percentage was due to the benefit achieved on the Cardinal Health
profit share percentage that declines as the profit increases. The decrease was tempered by
increased sales of higher cost products, such as Mucinex D and products packaged within display
units, coupled with higher costs created by the inefficiencies in the production facility due to
the limited guaifenesin supply. For the six months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, cost of
goods sold included $5.0 million and $4.5 million, respectively, of profit share earned by Cardinal
Health.

Selling, Marketing and Administrative.  Selling, marketing and administrative expenses
increased by $14.8 million to $45.6 million for the six months ended December 31, 2005, as compared
to $30.8 million for the six months ended December 31, 2004. The increase during the six months
ended December 31, 2005 was primarily due to: (i) approximately $7.2 million associated with various
sales and marketing programs, including the training and systems for the 50 additional sales
representatives hired in December 2004, professional marketing expenses,

21

Table of Contents   

expansion
of the trade sales department, and spending on the new consumer advertising campaign;
(ii) $3.5 million of general and administrative expenses primarily related to new headcount,
information technology and insurance; (iii) an increase of $1.7 million for stock-based
compensation; (iv) $500,000 relating to the fee to terminate the agreement with Pharmaceutical
Design L.L.C.; (v) approximately $1.2 million of additional expense related to distribution and
shipping on the increased volume of Mucinex sales; and (vi) $700,000 of legal, printing and audit costs related to
the secondary offering. The increase in stock-based compensation was primarily due to the
consideration of a volatility assumption in the calculation of fair value for the fiscal year 2006
stock option grants.

Product Development.  Product development expenses increased by $4.4 million to $7.5 million
during the six months ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $3.1 million for the six months ended
December 31, 2004. The increase for the six months ended
December 31, 2005 was due to spending on
Mucinex line extensions, coupled with expenses related to start-up costs of the erdosteine Phase II
clinical program. The six months ended December 31, 2005 also
included a $650,000 milestone
payment made to Edmond Pharma SRL for erdosteine and $335,000 for stock-based compensation.

Other, net.  Other, net increased by $2.5 million to $2.8 million during the six months ended
December 31, 2005, as compared to $242,000 for the six months ended December 31, 2004. The increase
during the six months ended December 31, 2005 was primarily due to higher interest income reflecting
earnings on the increased cash balances, which include the cash received from the initial public
offering, coupled with higher interest rates.

Income Taxes.  Income tax expense for the six months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $14.5
million and $5.9 million, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the six months ended December
31, 2005 and 2004 was 38.6% and 38.8%, respectively.

Accretion of Preferred Stock.  Accretion of our redeemable convertible preferred stock for the
six months ended December 31, 2004 was $125.6 million, which reflects the adjustment to accrete the
redeemable convertible preferred stock to fair value. Upon the closing of our initial public
offering in July 2005, our redeemable convertible preferred stock converted into shares of common
stock and, as a result, there was no accretion during the six months ended December 31, 2005.

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

In July 2005, we completed our initial public offering of 9,142,500 shares of common stock at
a price of $17.00 per share. The offering consisted of 6,889,500 newly issued shares sold by us and
2,253,000 shares sold by selling stockholders. The offering generated
gross proceeds to us of
approximately $117.0 million. From inception through the completion of our initial public offering,
we financed our operations primarily through the net proceeds from private placements of common
stock, redeemable convertible preferred stock, notes convertible into redeemable convertible
preferred stock, a revolving bank line of credit, and cash generated from our product sales.

As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $143.5 million of cash and cash equivalents,
$9.9 million of short-term investments and working capital of $180.5 million, as compared to cash
and cash equivalents of $24.7 million and working capital of $32.7 million as of June 30, 2005. The
increase in both cash and cash equivalents and working capital is primarily due to the $106.7
million net proceeds received from our initial public offering in July 2005. We do not have any
outstanding debt balances.

Our principal liquidity requirements are to meet the operating expenses of our growing
business. Our operating expenses include selling, marketing and administrative and product
development expenses and contractual commitments related to operating leases, raw material purchase
commitments, minimum profit share payments to Cardinal Health under the Cardinal Health Supply
Agreement, and royalty payments on our Mucinex and Humibid products.

Purchases of our finished product inventory from Cardinal Health are paid at an amount equal
to Cardinal Health s actual manufacturing cost plus a mark-up. The mark-up payments to Cardinal
Health are trued up each March 31st to the actual profit share amount. Any excess of the mark-up
payments over the actual profit share amount are refunded to us. Conversely, if the actual profit
share amount exceeds the payments paid to Cardinal Health during the contract year, the shortfall
would be paid to Cardinal Health. As of December 31, 2005, we have a receivable of $3.9 million
due

22

Table of Contents   

from Cardinal Health based on the estimated annual effective profit share amount for the
contract period ending March 31, 2006. The purpose of the mark-up payments is to provide Cardinal
Health with an interim cash flow prior to the actual profit share calculation. The mark-up
percentages are defined in the Cardinal Health Supply Agreement as follows:

Consequently, our liquidity will be impacted on an interim basis by the difference between the
stated mark-up percentages per the Cardinal Health Supply Agreement and the effective mark-up
percentage resulting from the contract year-end profit share calculation. We are considering
exercising our option to repurchase the Fort Worth, Texas manufacturing assets and operations back
from Cardinal Health.

We expect to increase our selling, marketing and administrative and our product development
expenses. We anticipate our selling and marketing expenses to increase as we seek to (i) continue
to switch long-acting guaifenesin and combination prescription products into OTC sales of Mucinex
products; (ii) expand the market for long-acting guaifenesin and combination products and (iii)
increase our share of the OTC cough, cold, allergy, and sinus markets. Therefore, we believe that
we may need to increase our number of professional sales representatives beyond the current 100 and
increase our consumer advertising spending. We anticipate that our administrative expenses will
increase to support our current growth plans and position as a public company. Our product
development expenses will likely increase as a result of our current plans to (i) expand the
Mucinex product line with OTC and prescription line extensions and (ii) in-license or acquire
specialty pharmaceutical respiratory products and trademarks that may require additional
development expenditures to achieve FDA marketing approval. We believe that our cash outflows
related to acquiring products and entering into licensing agreements may increase as we pursue our
product portfolio expansion initiative. Additionally, if sales of our current products continue to
increase or we increase the number of products in our portfolio, we may find it necessary to
consider alternative manufacturing capabilities, which may include the acquisition of manufacturing
facilities and equipment and participating in capital expenditures under contract manufacturing
relationships.

We believe our cash and cash equivalents, including amounts from our initial public offering
and cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating needs for at
least the next two years. We continually evaluate new opportunities for late-stage or
currently-marketed complementary product candidates and, if and when appropriate, intend to pursue
such opportunities through the acquisitions of companies, products or technologies and our own
development activities. Our ability to execute on such opportunities in some circumstances may be
dependent, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital on commercially reasonable terms.
There can be no assurance that funds from these sources will be available when needed or on terms
favorable to us or our stockholders. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities,
the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, stockholders may experience
additional dilution or such equity securities may provide for rights, preferences or privileges
senior to those of the holders of our common stock.

Cash Flows  

Six
months ended December 31, 2005 compared to six months ended December 31, 2004.  Net cash
provided by operating activities was $8.6 million for the six months ended December 31, 2005, and
cash used by operating activities was $5.3 million for the six months ended December 31, 2004. The
increase in net cash provided by operations during the six months ended December 31, 2005 was
primarily due to the increase in net income and accounts payable, offset by an increase in accounts
receivable and income tax receivable.

Net cash used in investing activities was $11.8 million for the six months ended December 31,
2005, as compared to $11.5 million for the six months ended December 31, 2004. The net cash used in
investing activities in both periods reflected purchases of short-term investments. The short-term
investments for the six months ended December 31, 2005 included $1.0 million of restricted cash
as collateral for our letter of credit for our new office building in Chester, New Jersey.

23

Table of Contents   

Net cash provided by financing activities was $122.0 million during the six months ended
December 31, 2005, as compared to $171,000 for the six months ended December 31, 2004. During the
six months ended December 31, 2005, the proceeds from financing activities included the $107.7
million net proceeds from the issuance of common stock in our initial
public offering and $12.3 million excess tax benefit from
the exercise of nonqualified stock options. We paid $1.1 million of deferred offering costs through
June 30, 2005.

Commitments  

During fiscal year 2004, Cardinal Health s supplier of dextromethorphan, an active ingredient
in Mucinex DM, notified Cardinal Health that they will be exiting the dextromethorphan
manufacturing business. At that time, Cardinal Health requested of the supplier, and the supplier
agreed, to commit to supplying Cardinal Health with an approximate four-year supply of
dextromethorphan. Cardinal Health made a commitment to the dextromethorphan supplier and is
obligated to take delivery of the material over the course of three years beginning in September
2004. We provided Cardinal Health with a letter agreement, dated September 30, 2004, stating
that we will reimburse Cardinal Health for Cardinal Health s cost in obtaining any unused
quantities of dextromethorphan at the first to occur of (i) expiration of the material or (ii) six
years from the date of the letter agreement. In November 2005, we agreed to extend this contract to
purchase an additional 45 metric tons of dextromethorphan through 2009, which we believe will meet
our needs for at least the next four and one-half years. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining
commitment for the entire contract was approximately $14.2 million.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.

24

Table of Contents   

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Our exposure to market risk is confined to our cash and cash equivalents. We invest in
high-quality financial instruments, primarily money market funds, federal agency notes, asset
backed securities, corporate debt securities and United States treasury notes, with the effective
duration of the portfolio less than nine months and no security with an effective duration in
excess of two years, which we believe are subject to limited credit risk. We currently do not hedge
interest rate exposure. Due to the short-term nature of our investments, we do not believe that we
have any material exposure to interest rate risk arising from our investments.

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.  We carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report pursuant to Exchange Act
Rule 13a-15. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that information
required to be disclosed by us (including our consolidated subsidiaries) in reports that we file or
submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported in a timely basis.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  There has been no change in our internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the second
quarter of fiscal year 2006 that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting.

25

Table of Contents   

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION 

ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. 

We are a party to various claims and suits arising out of matters occurring during the normal
course of business. However, as of December 31, 2005, we are involved in no current proceeding or
litigation that we believe will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. 

Our final prospectus filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b) on December 9, 2005 includes a
detailed discussion of our risk factors. The information presented below amends, updates and should
be read in conjunction with the risk factors and information disclosed in our final prospectus
filed with the SEC on December 9, 2005.

Risks Relating to Our Business 

We depend heavily on the success of two of our existing products, Mucinex SE
and Mucinex DM, and the strength of the Mucinex brand. If we are unable to
continue to successfully commercialize Mucinex SE and Mucinex DM and build the
Mucinex brand, with the introduction of products like Mucinex D, our results of
operations and future prospects will suffer.  

Mucinex SE, Mucinex DM and Mucinex D are our only commercial products. Sales of Mucinex SE
accounted for approximately 86.2% and 73.3% of our revenue in fiscal years 2004 and 2005,
respectively, and approximately 64.6% and 70.2% of our revenue for the three and six months ended
December 31, 2005, respectively. Sales of Mucinex DM accounted for approximately 23.9% of our
revenue in fiscal year 2005 and approximately 20.1% and 21.0% of our revenue for the three and six
months ended December 31, 2005, respectively. We launched Mucinex D, a product combining
long-acting guaifenesin with pseudoephedrine, in October 2005. Sales of Mucinex D accounted for
approximately 15.3% and 8.8% of our revenue for the three and six months ended December 31, 2005,
respectively. In the near term, we anticipate that our ability to generate revenues and establish
our Mucinex brand will depend largely on the continued success of Mucinex SE and Mucinex DM and the
successful commercialization of Mucinex D and additional products that utilize the Mucinex brand
name. Any failure or delay in our efforts to successfully commercialize our products could have a
negative impact on our revenues and ability to execute our business strategy.

We depend on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our sales,
and demands made by, or the loss of, one or more of these customers could
significantly reduce our margins or sales and adversely affect our business and
financial results.  

For fiscal year 2005, our top five and top ten customers accounted for an aggregate of
approximately 62% and 82% of our gross sales, respectively. For the three months ended December 31,
2005, they accounted for an aggregate of approximately 55% and 72%,of our gross sales,
respectively, and for the six months ended December 31, 2005, our top five and ten customers
accounted for an aggregate of approximately 59% and 76% of our gross sales, respectively. CVS,
McKesson Corporation, Walgreens, and Wal-Mart each accounted for greater than 10% of our gross
sales for fiscal year 2005. For the three months ended December 31, 2005, Walgreens and Wal-Mart
each accounted for greater than 10% of our gross sales, and for the six months ended December 31,
2005 Walgreens, CVS and Wal-Mart each accounted for greater than 10% of our gross sales. In future
periods, we expect that our top five and top ten customers will, in the aggregate, continue to
account for a large portion of our sales. In addition, retailers have demanded, and may continue to
demand, increased service and other accommodations, as well as price concessions. As a result, we
may face downward pressure on our prices and increased expenses to meet these demands, which would
reduce our margins. Given the growing trend toward consolidation of retailers, we expect demands by
customers and the concentration of our sales in a small number of customers to increase. The loss
of one or more of our top customers, any significant decrease in sales to these customers, pricing
concessions or other demands made by these customers, or any significant decrease in our retail
display space in any of these customers  stores could reduce our sales and margins and could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

26

Table of Contents   

Risks Relating to Intellectual Property 

Our U.S. patent no. 6,372,252 was recently subject to a request for
reexamination, which the USPTO granted upon petition to the USPTO Director. If
the USPTO cancels our patent or substantially narrows the claims of our patent
such that it no longer protects our products from competition, our business
will be materially harmed.  

On April 20, 2005, an anonymous third party filed a request for reexamination with the USPTO
of our U.S. patent no. 6,372,252, which contains claims covering a long-acting guaifenesin product,
including an immediate-release portion and an extended-release portion that yields a certain
pharmacokinetic profile. On June 23, 2005, the USPTO denied the request for reexamination and found
that the third party did not raise a substantial new question of patentability based on prior art.
On July 22, 2005, the third party who filed the request for reexamination sought review of the
USPTO s denial of its request for reexamination by petition to the Director of the USPTO. The USPTO
advised us on August 18, 2005 that the Director had granted the petition and ordered reexamination,
and on December 29, 2005, the USPTO advised us of its initial, non-final determination to reject
the claims of our U.S. Patent no. 6,372,252. Under typical procedural practices at the USPTO, this
preliminary finding was made prior to Adams presenting its arguments in favor of affirming the
claims under this patent. We have until February 23, 2006, to present our arguments and respond
to the USPTO s initial determination. Under a reexamination proceeding and, upon completion of the
proceeding, the USPTO may leave the patent in its present form, narrow the scope of the claims of
the patent or cancel all of the claims of the patent. Pursuant to this reexamination, the USPTO
will reconsider the patentability of our delivery system for guaifenesin. We expect the USPTO to
complete its review in nine to 12 months, and the entire reexamination process, from this point
forward, could take up to as much as five additional years, including the potential for two
separate appeals.

We intend to vigorously defend our patent position and believe we will prevail in the
reexamination process. We may not be successful, however, in maintaining our patent or the scope of
its claims during reexamination and can offer no assurance as to the outcome of a reexamination
proceeding. If the USPTO does not confirm our patent or substantially narrows the claims of our
patent following a reexamination, then our competitive position could be weakened and we may face
stronger and more direct competition, which would negatively impact our business and operating
results.

ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS. 

We filed a registration statement on Form S-1 (file no. 333-123585) with respect to the offer
and sale of 7,950,000 shares of our common stock, $0.01 par value, and an additional 1,192,500
shares of our common stock sold solely to cover over-allotments. Of the 7,950,000 shares offered
pursuant to the registration statement, we offered 5,697,000 shares and selling stockholders
offered 2,253,000 shares. We offered all of the shares sold in the over-allotment. The SEC declared
the registration statement effective on July 20, 2005.

The net offering proceeds to us have been invested into short-term investment-grade securities
and money market accounts. There has been no material change in the planned use of proceeds from
our initial public offering as described in our final prospectus filed with the SEC pursuant to
Rule 424(b) on July 21, 2005.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. 

At our Annual Meeting of stockholders, held on December 16, 2005, the following proposals were
voted upon by the stockholders as indicated below:

27

Table of Contents   

1. To elect three Class I directors to serve on our board of directors for a three-year term
expiring in fiscal year 2009.

The terms of our Class II directors, Steven A. Elms, Joan P. Neuscheler and William C. Pate,
and our Class III directors, Kirk K. Calhoun, Harold F. Oberkfell, and Michael J. Valentino,
continued after the meeting.

2. To ratify the appointment of Ernst   Young LLP as our independent registered public
accounting firm for the fiscal year 2006.

ITEM 6. EXHIBITS. 

* 
       
     Filed with this Quarterly Report. 

28

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

ADAMS RESPIRATORY THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

Date February 10, 2006

/s/ DAVID BECKER 

By: David Becker 

Its: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

29

<EX-31.1>
 2
 g99548exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO

EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Michael J. Valentino, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Adams Respiratory Therapeutics,
Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this quarterly report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this quarterly report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this quarterly report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this quarterly report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)): 

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b. 
       
      Intentionally omitted  

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions): 

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: February 10, 2006

/s/ Michael J. Valentino 

Michael J. Valentino 

Chief Executive Officer 

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 g99548exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO

EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, David P. Becker, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Adams Respiratory Therapeutics,
Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this quarterly report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this quarterly report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this quarterly report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this quarterly report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)): 

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b. 
       
      Intentionally omitted  

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: February 10, 2006

/s/ David P. Becker 

David P. Becker 

Chief Financial Officer 

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 g99548exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO

EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

STATEMENT OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
OF ADAMS RESPIRATORY THERAPEUTICS, INC. 
PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. (the  Company ) on
Form 10-Q for the period ended December 31, 2005, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned, Michael J. Valentino, Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to  
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Michael J. Valentino 

Michael J. Valentino 

Chief Executive Officer 

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

February 10, 2006 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 g99548exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO

EX-32.2 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO 

EXHIBIT 32.2 

STATEMENT OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
OF ADAMS RESPIRATORY THERAPEUTICS, INC. 
PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. (the  Company ) on
Form 10-Q for the period ended December 31, 2005, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned, David P. Becker, Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ David P. Becker 

David P. Becker 

Chief Financial Officer 

Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. 

February 10, 2006 

</EX-32.2>

