<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060208_10-Q_edgar_data_10081_0000950123-06-001306_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>846479</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>278033</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>367934</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>33</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-06-001306.hdr.sgml : 20060208
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060208155440
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-06-001306
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060208
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060208

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BARR PHARMACEUTICALS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000010081
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				221927534
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-09860
		FILM NUMBER:		06589120

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2 QUAKER RD BOX 2900
		CITY:			POMONA
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10970-0519
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8453621100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2 QUAKER RD
		STREET 2:		BOX 2900
		CITY:			POMONA
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10970-0519

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BARR LABORATORIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LZX7HbiTbJM8TePAhrlf/mwtihLf2Ag5BA7WJ1Ibh1I05jvcumjX8rMi9aCIlTik
 v0PgDnfzMoBfPntMGRPTWg==

 0000950123-06-001306.txt : 20060208

10-Q
 1
 y17265e10vq.htm
 FORM 10-Q

10-Q 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

(Mark One)

For quarterly period ended December 31, 2005 or 

For the transition period from                        to                        

Commission
file number  1-9860  

BARR PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.  

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware 

42-1612474  

(State or Other Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or Organization)

(I.R.S.   Employer 
Identification No.) 

400 Chestnut Ridge Road, Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey 07677-7668    
(Address of principal executive offices)

201-930-3300    
(Registrant s telephone number)

(Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or
a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer  and
 Large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (Check one):

Large accelerated filer    

Accelerated filer    

Non-accelerated filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes     No    

As of January 27, 2006 the registrant had 105,759,365 shares of $0.01 par value common stock
outstanding.

BARR PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 

INDEX TO FORM 10-Q 

Page Number  

Part I 

Financial Information   

Item 1.

Consolidated Financial Statements  

Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited) as of December 31,
2005 and June 30, 2005

3 

Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited) for the
three months and six months ended December 31, 2005 and
2004

4 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited) for the six
months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004

5 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)

6 

Item 2.

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations

20 

Item 3.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

28 

Item 4.

Controls and Procedures

28 

Part II 

Other Information   

Item 1.

Legal Proceedings

29 

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

29 

Item 6.

Exhibits

30 

Signatures

31 

2

Part 1. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1. Consolidated Financial Statements 

Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and subsidiaries 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 
(in thousands, except per share amounts) 
(unaudited) 

SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

3

Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and subsidiaries 

Consolidated Statements of Operations 
(in thousands, except per share amounts) 
(unaudited) 

SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

4

Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and subsidiaries 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
For the Six Months Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 
(in thousands of dollars) 
(unaudited) 

SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

5

BARR PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(in thousands of dollars, except per share amounts) 
(unaudited) 

1. Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying unaudited interim financial statements included in this Form 10-Q should be
read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and
its subsidiaries (the  Company ) and accompanying notes that are included in our Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005.

In our opinion, the unaudited financial statements reflect all adjustments (including those
that are normal and recurring) that are necessary in the judgment of management for a fair
presentation of such statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States ( GAAP ). In preparing financial statements in conformity with GAAP, we must make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues,
expenses, and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain amounts in the consolidated
statement of cash flows for the six months ended December 31, 2004 have been reclassified to
conform to our consolidated statement of cash flows for the six months ended December 31, 2005.
There is no effect on our statement of operations.

2. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) published Interpretation No.
47,   Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,   which clarifies that the term
 conditional asset retirement obligation,  as used in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 143,   Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,   that refers to a legal obligation to
perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are
conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The
uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement
obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information
exists. The interpretation also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient information to
reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. The adoption of this
Interpretation during the second quarter of fiscal year 2006 did not have a material effect on the
Company s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In June 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,   Accounting Changes and Error Corrections .  SFAS
No. 154 replaces APB (Accounting Principles Board) Opinion No. 20,   Accounting Changes,   and SFAS
No. 3,   Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements,   and changes the requirements
for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. This Statement applies to
all voluntary changes in accounting principle. It also applies to changes required by an accounting
pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific transition
provisions. When a pronouncement includes specific transition provisions, those provisions should
be followed. This Statement shall be effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors
made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not believe that the
adoption of SFAS No. 154 will have a material impact on its results of operations or financial
position.

3. Stock-Based Compensation 

The Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),   Share-Based Payment   ( SFAS 123R ),
effective July 1, 2005. SFAS 123R requires the recognition of the fair value of stock-based
compensation in net earnings.
The Company has three stock-based employee compensation plans, two stock-based non-employee
director compensation plans and an employee stock purchase plan. Stock-based compensation consists
of stock options,

6

stock appreciation rights and the employee stock purchase plan. Stock options
and stock appreciation rights are granted to employees at exercise prices equal to the fair market
value of the Company s stock at the dates of grant. Generally, stock options and stock
appreciation rights granted to employees fully vest three years from the grant date and have a term
of 10 years. Stock options and stock appreciation rights granted to directors are generally
exercisable on the date of the first annual shareholders  meeting immediately following the date of
grant. The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense over the requisite service period
of the individual grants, which generally equals the vesting period.

Prior to July 1, 2005, the Company accounted for these plans under the intrinsic value method
described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,   Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,   and related Interpretations. The Company, applying the intrinsic value method, did not
record stock-based compensation cost in net earnings because the exercise price of its stock
options equaled the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant. The Company has
elected to utilize the modified prospective transition method for adopting SFAS 123R. Under this
method, the provisions of SFAS 123R apply to all awards granted or modified after the date of
adoption. In addition, the unrecognized expense of awards not yet vested at the date of adoption,
determined under the original provisions of SFAS 123, shall be recognized in net earnings in the
periods after the date of adoption. The Company recognized stock-based compensation expense for
the three and six months ended December 31, 2005 in the amount of $7,124 and $13,894, respectively.
The Company also recorded tax related benefits for the three and six months ended December 31, 2005
in the amount of $1,826 and $3,383, respectively.

SFAS 123R requires the Company to present pro forma information for periods prior to the
adoption as if it had accounted for all stock-based compensation under the fair value method of
that statement. For purposes of pro forma disclosure, the estimated fair value of the options at
the date of grant is amortized to expense over the requisite service period, which generally equals
the vesting period. The following table illustrates the effect on net earnings and earnings per
share as if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123R to its
stock-based employee compensation for the periods indicated.

For all of the Company s stock-based compensation plans, the fair value of each grant was
estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Black-Scholes utilizes
assumptions related to volatility, the risk-free interest rate, the dividend yield (which is assumed to be zero, as
the Company has not paid cash dividends recently) and employee exercise behavior. Expected
volatilities utilized in the model are based mainly on the historical volatility of the Company s
stock price and other factors. The risk-free interest rate is derived from the U.S. Treasury yield
curve in effect in the period of grant. The model incorporates exercise and

7

post-vesting
forfeiture assumptions based on an analysis of historical data. The expected life of the fiscal
2006 grants is derived from historical and other factors.

The weighted-average fair value of the stock appreciation rights granted in the three and six
months ended December 31, 2005 was $21.94 and $18.18 per right, respectively, determined using the
following assumptions:

As of December 31, 2005, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to
non-vested stock options and stock appreciation rights amounted to $39,530. There were no
unrecognized compensation costs related to the employee stock purchase plan at December 31, 2005.
The weighted average remaining requisite service period of the non-vested stock options and stock
appreciation rights was 24 months.

4. Acquisitions and Business Combinations 

FEI Acquisition  

On November 9, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding equity
interests of FEI Women s Health, LLC ( FEI ). FEI is the owner of ParaGard      T 380A
(Intrauterine Copper Contraceptive) IUD, which is approved for continuous use for the prevention of
pregnancy for up to 10 years. With this transaction the Company expanded its commitment of
contraception beyond oral contraceptive products into a new arena and further strengthened its
commitment to leadership in female healthcare by offering enhanced contraceptive options.

In
accordance with SFAS No. 141,   Business Combinations ,  the Company used the purchase method
to account for this transaction. Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed from FEI are recorded at the date of acquisition, at their respective fair
values. In connection with the acquisition the Company engaged a valuation firm to evaluate certain
assets and liabilities of FEI. The purchase price plus acquisition costs exceeded the fair values
of acquired assets and assumed liabilities. This resulted in the recognition of goodwill in the
amount of $29,619. The total purchase price, including acquisition costs of $4,810 less cash
acquired of $4,372, was $289,428. The consolidated financial statements issued after completion of
the acquisition reflect these values, but are not restated retroactively to reflect the historical
financial position or results of operations of FEI. The operating results of FEI are included in
the consolidated financial statements subsequent to the November 9, 2005 acquisition date.

The fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on November 9, 2005 were
as follows:

8

The purchase price has been allocated based on an estimate of the fair value of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition. The final valuation of net assets
is expected to be completed no later than one year from the acquisition date in accordance with
GAAP. To the extent that the estimates need to be adjusted, the Company will do so.

In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 142,   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  ,
the goodwill associated with the acquisition will not be amortized. The intangible asset will have
a 20-year life and will be amortized over that period. Goodwill and the intangible assets resulting
from this acquisition have been allocated to our Proprietary reporting unit.

The following unaudited pro forma financial information presents the combined results of
operations of the Company and FEI as if the acquisition had occurred as of the beginning of the
periods presented. The unaudited pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of
what our consolidated results of operations actually would have been had we completed the
acquisition at the dates indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial information
does not purport to project the future results of operations of the combined company.

Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and subsidiaries 
Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Statements of Operations 
(in thousands, except per share amounts) 
(unaudited) 

The unaudited pro forma financial information above reflects the following:

(1) 
       
     This amount includes amortization of $3,200 for the intangible asset that was acquired and an
add back of interest expense for the debt that was paid off before the closing of $265. 

(2) 
       
     This amount includes amortization of $3,200 for the intangible asset that was acquired, an
add back of interest expense for the debt that was paid off before the closing of $836 and a
charge for the amount of the step-up in inventory to fair value of $5,469. 

9

(3) 
       
     This amount includes amortization of $6,400 for the intangible asset that was acquired and an
add back of interest expense for the debt that was paid off before the closing of $671. 

(4) 
       
     This amount includes amortization of $6,400 for the intangible asset that was acquired, an
add back of interest expense for the debt that was paid off before the closing of $1,655 and
a charge for the amount of the step-up in inventory to fair value of $10,335. 

Mircette  Acquisition  

On June 15, 2005, the Company entered into a non-binding Letter of Intent with Organon
(Ireland) Ltd., Organon USA Inc. ( Organon ) and Savient Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Savient ) to
acquire the New Drug Application ( NDA ) for Mircette , obtain a royalty-free patent license to
promote Mircette in the United States and dismiss all pending litigation between the parties in
exchange for a payment by the Company of up to $155,000. At the time of the signing of the Letter
of Intent, because the proposed transaction included, as one of its components, a payment in
settlement of litigation, it was presumed under GAAP to give rise to a  probable loss,  as defined
in SFAS No. 5,   Accounting for Contingencies  . In consultation with outside advisors and based on
preliminary valuations of the assets the Company would acquire if the transaction closed on the
terms then contemplated, the Company recorded a charge of $63,238 as of June 30, 2005 to reflect
the proposed litigation settlement.

On December 2, 2005, the Company and Organon finalized an agreement that gave the Company
exclusive rights for Organon s Mircette product. The agreement also terminated the ongoing patent
litigation regarding the Company s generic version of Mircette, which is marketed under the trade
name Kariva . The agreement called for the Company to pay Organon $139,000 and Savient $13,750.
Based on final valuations of the asset, the Company has recorded an intangible asset in the amount
of $88,700 and recorded an additional charge of $813 for the difference between amounts recorded as
a probable loss at June 30, 2005 and the final loss amount. The Company also incurred approximately
$1,800 of additional legal and accounting costs related to the transaction during the first half of
fiscal 2006. Additionally, the Company was reimbursed $11,000 from a third party for partial
reimbursement of the Company s recorded charge on this transaction. This reimbursement is reflected
as a reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses.

5. Inventories, net 

Inventories consist of the following:

Inventories are presented net of reserves of $20,900 and $13,415 at December 31, 2005 and June
30, 2005, respectively. The work-in-process and finished goods amounts include inventory acquired
in the FEI transaction that is stated at fair value. The amount included in these line items
related to the acquired inventory was $16,501 as of December 31, 2005 including $16,083 for the
step-up to fair value. Based on units sold from the closing date through December 31, 2005, the
Company charged cost of sales for $4,658 of the initial $20,741 step-up adjustment.

10

6. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 

As a result of the acquisition of FEI the Company has recorded goodwill in the amount of
$29,619. The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the six months ended December 31, 2005
were due to the FEI acquisition.

Intangible assets, excluding goodwill, which are comprised primarily of product licenses and
product rights and related intangibles, consist of the following:

On November 9, 2005, the Company acquired the product rights to ParaGard T 380A IUD through
the acquisition of FEI. These product rights had a fair value of $256,000 at the date of
acquisition. On December 2, 2005 the Company also acquired the product rights to Mircette. The
Company recorded an intangible asset of $88,700 for this acquisition. These amounts are contained
in the table listed above.

Estimated amortization expense on product licenses and product rights and related intangibles
for the years ending June 30, 2006 through 2010 is as follows:

The Company s product licenses and product rights and related intangibles have
weighted-average useful lives of approximately 10 and 18 years, respectively.

7. Income taxes payable 

Income taxes payable decreased by $13,353 from June 30, 2005 due to the tax benefits relating
to stock-based compensation and the reversal of certain deferred tax assets. The benefits related
to these items combined with our normal tax provision and estimated tax payments created an income
tax receivable of $13,247 that has been reclassified into other receivables.

11

8. Segment Reporting 

The Company operates in two reportable business segments: Generic Pharmaceuticals and
Proprietary Pharmaceuticals. Product sales and gross profit information for the Company s
operating segments consist of the following:

9. Earnings Per Share 

The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators used to calculate
earnings per share ( EPS ) in the consolidated statements of operations:

12

10. Comprehensive Income 

Comprehensive income is defined as the total change in shareholders  equity during the period
other than from transactions with shareholders. For the Company, comprehensive income is comprised
of net earnings and the net changes in unrealized gains and losses on securities classified for
SFAS No. 115 purposes as  available for sale.  Total comprehensive income for the three months
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $94,884 and $58,935, respectively, and for the six months
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $178,033 and $110,717, respectively.

11. Commitments and Contingencies 

Leases  

The Company is party to various leases that relate to the rental of office facilities and
equipment. The table below shows the future minimum rental payments, exclusive of taxes, insurance
and other costs, under noncancellable long-term leases.

For fiscal years ending June 30, 

13

Product Liability Insurance  

The Company uses a combination of self-insurance and traditional third-party insurance
policies to cover product liability claims.

The Company maintains third-party insurance that provides coverage, subject to specified
co-insurance requirements, for the cost of product liability claims arising during the current
policy period, which began on
October 1, 2005 and ends on September 30, 2006, between an aggregate amount of $25,000 and
$75,000. The Company is self-insured for up to the first $25,000 of costs incurred relating to
product liability claims arising during the current policy period. In addition, the Company has
obtained extended reporting periods under previous policies for claims arising prior to the
current policy period. The current period and extended reporting period policies exclude certain
products; the Company is responsible for all product liability costs arising from these excluded
products.

The Company continues to incur significant legal costs associated with its hormone therapy
litigation (see below). As of December 31, 2005, these costs have been covered under extended
reporting period policies that provide up to $25,000 of coverage. As of December 31, 2005, there
was approximately $9,700 of coverage remaining under these policies. The Company has recorded a
receivable for legal costs incurred and expected to be recovered under these policies. Once the
coverage from these extended reporting period policies has been exhausted, future legal and
settlement costs will be covered by a combination of self-insurance and other third-party insurance
layers.

Indemnity Provisions 

From time-to-time, in the normal course of business, the Company agrees to indemnify its
suppliers, customers and employees concerning product liability and other matters. For certain
product liability matters, the Company has incurred legal defense costs on behalf of certain of its
customers under these agreements. Except as described below, no amounts have been recorded in the
financial statements for probable losses with respect to the Company s obligations under such
agreements.

In June 2005, the Company entered into an agreement with Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. which
allowed Teva to manufacture and launch Teva s generic version of Aventis  Allegra    product during
the Company s 180 day exclusivity period, in exchange for Teva s obligation to pay the Company a
specified percentage of Teva s operating profit, as defined, on sales of the product. The
agreement also provides that each company will indemnify the other for the portion of any patent
infringement damages they might incur as a result of the underlying litigation, described below, so
that the parties will share any such damage liability in proportion to their respective share of
Teva s operating profit. On September 1, 2005, Teva launched its generic version of Allegra and
the Company, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 45
 Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees
of Indebtedness of Others,  recorded a $4,057 liability to reflect the fair value of the
indemnification obligation it has undertaken. This amount is included in other liabilities on the
consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005.

Litigation Settlement  

On October 22, 1999, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with Schein
Pharmaceutical, Inc. (now part of Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) relating to a 1992 agreement
regarding the pursuit of a generic conjugated estrogens product. Under the terms of the settlement,
Schein relinquished any claim to rights in Cenestin in exchange for a payment of $15,000 made to
Schein in 1999. An additional $15,000 payment is required under the terms of the settlement if
Cenestin achieves total profits (product sales less product-specific cost of goods sold, sales and
marketing and other relevant expenses) of greater than $100,000 over any five-year period prior to
October 22, 2014. As of December 31, 2005, no amounts have been recorded related to this
settlement.

14

Litigation Matters  

The Company is involved in various legal proceedings incidental to its business, including
product liability, intellectual property and other commercial litigation and antitrust actions.
The Company records accruals for such contingencies to the extent that it concludes a loss is
probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Additionally, the Company records insurance
receivable amounts from third party insurers when appropriate.

Many claims involve highly complex issues relating to patent rights, causation, label
warnings, scientific evidence and other matters. Often these issues are subject to substantial
uncertainties and therefore, the probability of loss and an estimate of the amount of the loss are
difficult to determine. The Company s assessments are based on estimates that the Company, in
consultation with outside advisors, believes are reasonable. Although the Company believes it has
substantial defenses in these matters, litigation is inherently unpredictable. Consequently, the
Company could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements that could have a material
adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements in a particular period.

Summarized below are the more significant matters pending to which the Company is a party. As
of December 31, 2005, the Company s reserve for the liability associated with claims or related
defense costs for these matters is not material.

Patent Matters 

Desogestrel/Ethinyl Estradiol Suit 

This matter was previously disclosed in the Company s Form 10-K filed in September 2005.

On December 2, 2005, the Company entered into a final settlement with Organon (Ireland) Ltd.,
Organon USA Inc. and Savient Pharmaceuticals, Inc., in which the Company acquired the New Drug
Application ( NDA ) for Mircette, obtained a royalty-free patent license to promote Mircette in the
United States and dismissed all pending litigation between the parties in exchange for a payment by
the Company of $139,000 to Organon and $13,750 to Savient.

Desmopressin Acetate Suit 

In July 2002, the Company filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application ( ANDA ) seeking approval
from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to market desmopressin acetate tablets, the
generic equivalent of Aventis  DDAVP  product. The Company notified Ferring AB, the patent holder,
and Aventis pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act in October 2002. Ferring AB and
Aventis filed a suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York in December
2002 for infringement of one of the four patents listed in the Orange Book for desmopressin acetate
tablets, seeking to prevent the Company from marketing desmopressin acetate tablets until the
patent expires in 2008. In January 2003, the Company filed an answer and counterclaim asserting
non-infringement and invalidity of all four listed patents. In January 2004, Ferring AB amended
their complaint to add a claim of willful infringement.

On February 7, 2005, the court granted summary judgment in the Company s favor. Ferring AB
and Aventis have appealed. On July 5, 2005, the Company launched its generic product. If Ferring
AB and Aventis are successful in reversing the grant of summary judgment and ultimately prevail in
the case, the Company could be liable for damages for patent infringement that could exceed the
Company s profit on the sale of desmopressin acetate. In addition, depending on when the
litigation is ultimately resolved, an adverse ruling likely would prohibit the Company from
continuing to sell its desmopressin acetate product.

Fexofenadine Hydrochloride Suit 

In June 2001, the Company filed an ANDA seeking approval from the FDA to market fexofenadine
hydrochloride tablets in 30 mg, 60 mg and 180 mg strengths, the generic equivalent of Aventis 
Allegra  tablet products for allergy relief. The Company notified Aventis pursuant to the
provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act

15

and, in September 2001, Aventis filed a patent infringement
action in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey-Newark Division, seeking to
prevent the Company from marketing this product until after the expiration of various U.S. patents,
the last of which is alleged to expire in 2017.

After the filing of the Company s ANDAs, Aventis listed an additional patent on Allegra in the
Orange Book. The Company filed appropriate amendments to its ANDAs to address the newly listed
patent and, in November 2002, notified Merrell Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the patent holder, and
Aventis pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act. Aventis filed an amended complaint in November 2002 claiming that the
Company s ANDAs infringe the newly listed patent.

On March 5, 2004, Aventis and AMR Technology, Inc., the holder of certain patents licensed to
Aventis, filed an additional patent infringement action in the U.S. District Court for the District
of New Jersey   Newark Division, based on two patents that are not listed in the Orange Book.

In June 2004, the court granted the Company summary judgment of non-infringement as to two
patents. On March 31, 2005, the court granted the Company summary judgment of invalidity as to a
third patent. Discovery is proceeding on the five remaining patents at issue in the case. No trial
date has been scheduled.

On August 31, 2005, the Company received final FDA approval for its fexofenadine tablet
products. As referenced above, pursuant to an agreement between the Company and Teva, the Company
selectively waived its 180 days of generic exclusivity to Teva, and Teva launched its generic
product on September 1, 2005.

On September 21, 2005, Aventis filed a motion for a preliminary injunction or expedited trial.
The motion asked the court to enjoin the Company and Teva from marketing their generic versions of
Allegra tablets, 30 mg, 60 mg and 180 mg, or to expedite the trial in the case. The motion also
asked the court to enjoin Ranbaxy Laboratories, Ltd. and Amino Chemicals, Ltd. from the commercial
production of generic fexofenadine raw material. The preliminary injunction hearing concluded on
November 3, 2005. On January 30, 2006, the Court denied the motion by Aventis for a preliminary
injunction or expedited trial.

Aventis also has brought a patent infringement suit against Teva in Israel, seeking to have
Teva enjoined from manufacturing generic versions of Allegra tablets and requesting damages for
patent infringement.

If the Company and Teva are unsuccessful in the litigation, the Company and Teva could be
liable for Aventis  lost profits on the sale of Allegra, which could potentially exceed the Company
and Teva s profits on the sale of the generic product.

Product Liability Matters 

Hormone Therapy Litigation 

The Company has been named as a defendant in approximately 3,400 personal injury product
liability cases brought against the Company and other manufacturers by plaintiffs claiming that
they suffered injuries resulting from the use of certain estrogen and progestin medications
prescribed to treat the symptoms of menopause. The cases against the Company involve either or
both of the Company s Cenestin products or the use of the Company s medroxyprogesterone acetate
product, which typically has been prescribed for use in conjunction with Premarin or other hormone
therapy products. All of these products remain approved by the FDA and continue to be marketed and
sold to customers. While the Company has been named as a defendant in these cases, fewer than a
third of the complaints actually allege the plaintiffs took a product manufactured by the Company,
and the Company s experience to date suggests that, even in these cases, a high percentage of the
plaintiffs will be unable to demonstrate actual use of a Company product. For that reason,
approximately 2,400 of the 3,400 cases have been dismissed and, based on discussions with the
Company s outside counsel, several hundred more are expected to be dismissed in the near future.

The Company believes it has viable defenses to the allegations in the complaints and is
defending the actions vigorously.

16

Antitrust Matters 

Invamed, Inc./Apothecon, Inc .

In February 1998, Invamed, Inc. and Apothecon, Inc., both of which have since been acquired by
Sandoz, Inc., which is a subsidiary of Novartis AG, named the Company and several others as
defendants in lawsuits filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York,
alleging violations of antitrust laws and also
charging that the Company unlawfully blocked access to the raw material source for warfarin
sodium. The two actions have been consolidated. On May 10, 2002, the District Court granted
summary judgment in the Company s favor on all antitrust claims in the case, but found that the
plaintiffs could proceed to trial on their allegations that the Company interfered with an alleged
raw material supply contract between Invamed and the Company s raw material supplier. Invamed and
Apothecon appealed the District Court s decision to the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit. Trial on the merits was stayed pending the outcome of the appeal.

On October 18, 2004, the Court of Appeals reversed the District Court s grant of summary
judgment and held that the plaintiffs have raised triable issues of material fact on their
antitrust claims. Discovery is ongoing in the District Court. The case is scheduled to be ready
for trial by June 2006.

The Company believes that the suits filed by Invamed and Apothecon are without merit and is
vigorously defending its position. The plaintiffs were seeking damages of approximately $120,000
as of December 31, 2000, and if successful on their underlying claims may seek to obtain treble
damages.

Ciprofloxacin (Cipro ) Antitrust Class Actions 

The Company has been named as a co-defendant with Bayer Corporation, The Rugby Group, Inc. and
others in approximately 38 class action complaints filed in state and federal courts by direct and
indirect purchasers of Ciprofloxacin (Cipro) from 1997 to the present. The complaints alleged that
the 1997 Bayer-Barr patent litigation settlement agreement was anti-competitive and violated
federal antitrust laws and/or state antitrust and consumer protection laws. A prior investigation
of this agreement by the Texas Attorney General s Office on behalf of a group of state Attorneys
General was closed without further action in December 2001.

The lawsuits included nine consolidated in California state court, one in Kansas state court,
one in Wisconsin state court, one in Florida state court, and two consolidated in New York state
court, with the remainder of the actions pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of New York for coordinated or consolidated pre-trial proceedings (the  MDL Case ). On
March 31, 2005, the Court in the MDL Case granted summary judgment in the Company s favor and
dismissed all of the federal actions before it. On June 7, 2005, plaintiffs filed notices of
appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The Court of Appeals has stayed
consideration of the merits pending consideration of the Company s motion to transfer the appeal to
the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.

On September 19, 2003, the Circuit Court for the County of Milwaukee dismissed the Wisconsin
state class action for failure to state a claim for relief under Wisconsin law. Plaintiffs
appealed, and briefing is currently underway. On October 17, 2003, the Supreme Court of the State
of New York for New York County dismissed the consolidated New York state class action for failure
to state a claim upon which relief could be granted and denied the plaintiffs  motion for class
certification. Plaintiffs have appealed that decision and briefing is complete. On April 13, 2005,
the Superior Court of San Diego, California ordered a stay of the California state class actions
until after the resolution of any appeal in the MDL Case. On April 22, 2005, the District Court of
Johnson County, Kansas similarly stayed the action before it, until after any appeal in the MDL
Case. The Florida state class action remains at a very early stage, with no status hearings,
dispositive motions, pre-trial schedules, or a trial date set as of yet.

The Company believes that its agreement with Bayer Corporation reflects a valid settlement to
a patent suit and cannot form the basis of an antitrust claim. Based on this belief, the Company
is vigorously defending itself in these matters.

17

Tamoxifen Antitrust Class Actions 

To date approximately 31 consumer or third-party payor class action complaints have been
filed in state and federal courts against Zeneca, Inc., AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals L.P. and the
Company alleging, among other things, that the 1993 settlement of patent litigation between Zeneca
and the Company violated the antitrust laws, insulated Zeneca and the Company from generic
competition and enabled Zeneca and the Company to charge artificially inflated prices for
tamoxifen citrate. A prior investigation of this agreement by the U.S. Department of
Justice was closed without further action. On May 19, 2003, the U.S. District Court
dismissed the complaints for failure to state a viable antitrust claim. On November 2, 2005, the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the District Court s order
dismissing the cases for failure to state a viable antitrust claim. On November 30, 2005,
Plaintiffs petitioned the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit for a rehearing  en
banc . The Court of Appeals directed the Company to file a response to Plaintiffs  petition, which
the Company submitted on January 26, 2006. The Court has not yet ruled on the merits of the
petition.

The Company believes that its agreement with Zeneca reflects a valid settlement to a patent
suit and cannot form the basis of an antitrust claim. Based on this belief, the Company is
vigorously defending itself in these matters.

Ovcon Antitrust Proceedings 

To date, the Company has been named as a co-defendant with Warner Chilcott Holdings, Co. III,
Ltd., and others in complaints filed in federal courts by the Federal Trade Commission, 34 State
Attorneys General and nine private class action plaintiffs claiming to be direct and indirect
purchasers of Ovcon-35 . These actions allege, among other things, that a March 24, 2004 Option
and License Agreement between the Company and Galen Holdings PLC (known since January 2005 as
Warner Chilcott Holdings Company, Limited) constitutes an unfair method of competition, is
anticompetitive and restrains trade in the market for Ovcon-35  and its generic equivalents. These
cases, the first of which was filed by the FTC on or about December 2, 2005, remain at a very early
stage, with no status hearings, dispositive motions, pre-trial schedules, or trial dates set as
of yet.

The Company believes that it has not engaged in any improper conduct and is vigorously
defending itself in these matters.

Medicaid Reimbursement Cases 

The Company, along with numerous other pharmaceutical companies, has been named as a defendant
in separate actions brought by the states of Alabama, Kentucky, Illinois, Mississippi, the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the City of New York, and numerous counties in New York. In each of
these matters, the plaintiffs seek to recover damages and other relief for alleged overcharges for
prescription medications paid for or reimbursed by their respective Medicaid programs.

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts case and the New York cases, with the exception of the
action filed by Erie County, are currently pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Massachusetts. Those actions are at an early stage with no trial dates set. The Erie County case
was recently remanded from federal court in Massachusetts to state court in New York, and is also
at an early stage with no trial date set.

The Alabama case was filed in Alabama state court, removed to the U.S. District Court for the
Middle District of Alabama, and returned to state court with no trial date currently set. The
Illinois and Kentucky cases were filed in Illinois and Kentucky state courts, removed to federal
court, and transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts.
Illinois and Kentucky have filed motions to have those cases returned to state court. The
defendants have filed motions to dismiss, which have not yet been decided.

The State of Mississippi case was filed in state court on October 20, 2005. This matter is at
a very early stage with no trial date set.

18

The Company believes that it has not engaged in any improper conduct and is vigorously
defending itself in these matters.

Breach of Contract Action 

On October 6, 2005, plaintiffs Agvar Chemicals Inc., Ranbaxy Laboratories, Inc. and Ranbaxy
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. filed suit against the Company and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. in the
Superior Court of New Jersey. In their complaint, plaintiffs seek to recover damages and other
relief, based on an alleged breach of an alleged contract requiring the Company to purchase raw
material for the Company s generic Allegra product from Ranbaxy, prohibiting the Company from
launching its generic Allegra product without Ranbaxy s consent and prohibiting the Company from
entering into an agreement authorizing Teva to launch Teva s generic Allegra product. This matter
is at a very early stage, with no status hearings, dispositive motions, pre-trial schedules, or a
trial date set as of yet. The Company believes there was no such contract and is vigorously
defending itself.

Other Litigation 

As of December 31, 2005, the Company was involved with other lawsuits incidental to its
business, including patent infringement actions, product liability, and personal injury claims.
Management, based on the advice of legal counsel, believes that the ultimate outcome of these other
matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements.

19

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion and analysis addresses material changes in the results of operations
and financial condition of Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and subsidiaries for the periods presented.
This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements, the related notes to consolidated financial statements and Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition included in the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, and the unaudited interim consolidated
financial statements and related notes included in Item 1 of this report on Form 10-Q.

Business Development Activities  

On June 15, 2005, we entered into a non-binding Letter of Intent with Organon (Ireland) Ltd.,
Organon USA Inc. ( Organon ) and Savient Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Savient ) to acquire the New Drug
Application ( NDA ) for the oral contraceptive product, Mircette , obtain a royalty-free patent
license to promote Mircette in the United States and dismiss all pending litigation between the
parties in exchange for a payment by us of up to $155.0 million. At the time of the signing of the
Letter of Intent, because the proposed transaction included, as one of its components, a payment in
settlement of litigation, it was presumed under GAAP to give rise to a  probable loss,  as defined
in SFAS No. 5,   Accounting for Contingencies .  In consultation with outside advisors and based on
preliminary valuations of the assets we would acquire if the transaction closed on the terms then
contemplated, we recorded a charge of $63.2 million as of June 30, 2005 to reflect the proposed
litigation settlement.

On December 2, 2005, we finalized an agreement with Organon and Savient to acquire the
exclusive rights to Mircette. The agreement terminated the ongoing patent litigation regarding our
generic version of Mircette, which we market under the trade name Kariva. The agreement called for
us to pay Organon $139.0 million and Savient $13.8 million. Based on final valuations of the assets
acquired, we recorded an additional charge of $0.8 million for the difference between amounts
recorded as a probable loss at June 30, 2005 and the final loss amount. We also incurred
transaction costs (primarily legal and accounting fees) for the three and six months ended December
31, 2005 of $0.6 million and $1.8 million, respectively. Additionally, we received $11.0 million
from a third party as partial reimbursement of the $64.0 million charge recorded in conjunction
with this transaction. The $11.0 million reimbursement, together with the additional settlement
charge of $0.8 million and the transactions costs for the three and six months of $0.6 million and
$1.8 million, have all been classified in the selling, general and administrative expense line and
result in a net benefit to selling, general and administrative expenses of $9.5 million for the
three months ended December 31, 2005 and $8.4 million for the six months ended December 31, 2005.

On November 9, 2005, we completed the acquisition of FEI Women s Health, LLC ( FEI ). FEI is
the owner of ParaGard    T 380A (Intrauterine Copper Contraceptive) IUD ( Paragard IUD ),
which is approved for continuous use for the prevention of pregnancy for up to 10 years. FEI s
results are included in our financial statements subsequent to November 9, 2005. In conjunction
with this transaction, we recorded an intangible asset of $256 million, increased the cost of the
acquired inventory by $20.7 million to state it at fair value and recorded goodwill of $29.6
million. The intangible asset is being amortized over 20 years while the $20.7 million adjustment
to inventory is being charged to cost of sales as the acquired inventory is sold.

20

Results of Operations 

Comparison of the Three and Six Months Ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004  

The following table sets forth revenue data for the three and six months ended December 31,
2005 and 2004 (dollars in millions).

Revenues   Product Sales  

Generic Products  

Total generic product sales for the three and six months ended December 31, 2005 increased
due to a significant increase in our sales of other generic products, as described below, slightly
offset by lower sales of our generic oral contraceptive products.

Oral Contraceptives 

For the three and six months ended December 31, 2005, sales of generic oral contraceptives
declined 6% and 5%, respectively, over the prior year periods. The decline in our generic oral
contraceptives reflects the continued decline in demand for many of these non-promoted products and lower
pricing and fewer units sold due to the impact of competition especially on certain larger oral
contraceptives, such as Aviane and Apri. These factors more than offset higher year-over-year
generic substitution rates and the impact of customer buying patterns
on certain other products, including Kariva.

Other Generic Products 

For the three and six months ended December 31, 2005, other generic product sales increased
27% and 33%, respectively over the prior year periods due mainly to the July 2005 launch of
Desmopressin and, to a lesser extent, contributions from Didanosine, which we launched in December
2004. We expect Desmopressin sales, which have been favorably impacted in the first half of the
year by rapid generic substitution, to decline sharply in the third quarter (and thereafter) due
to the launch of a competing product in January 2006. Partially offsetting the strong sales from
Desmopressin and Didanosine were lower sales of Mirtazapine and Metformin XR 750mg due to increased
competition for these products, and reduced demand for Claravis. Lower sales volumes of Claravis,
which is indicated for the treatment of severe acne, are in large part the result of lower
customer demand as
certain customers reduced inventory in anticipation of new labeling requirements.
Manufacturers and marketers of isotrentinoin products, including Claravis, in cooperation with the
FDA, are currently implementing an enhanced risk management program, iPledge, which is designed to
minimize fetal exposure to isotrentinion. iPledge, which

21

is being implemented in stages over the
next few months, is expected to replace the existing risk management program.

Proprietary Products 

For the three and six months ended December 31, 2005 proprietary products sales increased 25%
and 10%, respectively, over the prior year periods, primarily the result of (1) an increase in
sales of Seasonale, (2) sales of the Paragard IUD and Mircette oral contraceptive, which we
acquired in November 2005 and December 2005, respectively, (3) modest increases in sales of
Prefest and Nordette, which we acquired in November 2004 and December 2004, respectively, and (4)
increased sales of Plan B. These increases more than offset lower sales of Cenestin and
Loestrin/Loestrin FE due to volume declines reflecting lower year-over-year prescriptions.

Seasonale sales totaled $29.5 million for the quarter and $51.6 million for the six months
ended December 31, 2005, a 43% and 40% increase, respectively, over the comparable prior year
periods. The significant increase for the current periods resulted
from higher unit sales  
Seasonale prescriptions increased from 193,000 in the prior year quarter to 255,000 in the current
quarter   as well as higher pricing. Based on current prescription levels and a continued
commitment to consumer advertising, we continue to expect our fiscal 2006 sales of Seasonale to
exceed $100 million.

Revenues
  Alliance, Development and Other Revenue  

Alliance, development and other revenue consists mainly of revenue from profit-sharing
arrangements, co-promotion agreements, standby manufacturing fees and reimbursements and fees we
receive in conjunction with our agreement with the U.S. Department of Defense for the development
of the Adenovirus vaccine. Alliance, development and other revenue increased substantially from
the prior year primarily due to (1) our profit-sharing arrangement with Teva on sales of their
generic Allegra    product and (2) royalty payments and other fees under our
Co-Promotion Agreement and License and Manufacturing Agreement with Kos Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
( Kos ) on Niaspan    and Advicor      which we began receiving in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.

The last day of the 180-day exclusivity period on generic Allegra
tablets is February 26, 2006. Our agreement with Teva provides
for a reduced profit-sharing percentage for product sold after the
expiration of the 180-day exclusivity period. In addition, we are
aware of competitors that have filed ANDAs with a Paragraph IV
certification for generic Allegra tablets. With respect to one such
competitor, the 30-month stay of final FDA approval has expired, so
that it may be eligible for final approval from the FDA after
February 26, 2006. Another competitor s 30-month stay
expires in early June 2006, at which time it may be eligible to
receive FDA approval on its ANDA for generic Allegra. If, upon
receipt of FDA approval, either of these or any other competitors
decide to launch their generic Allegra product  at risk ,
Teva s Allegra revenues and our royalties from Teva could decrease
significantly.

Cost of Sales  

Cost of sales includes the cost of products we purchase from third parties, our manufacturing
and packaging costs for products we manufacture, our profit-sharing or royalty payments made to
third parties, including raw material suppliers, changes to our inventory reserves and stock-based
compensation expense of certain departments. Amortization costs arising from the acquisition of
product rights are included in selling, general and administrative expense.

The following table sets forth cost of sales data, in dollars, as well as the resulting gross
margins expressed as a percentage of product sales, for the three and six months ended December
31, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in millions):

22

Overall gross margins increased for the three and six months ended December 31, 2005 compared
to the prior year due to higher margins on our generic products and a higher mix of proprietary
products as a percentage of total product sales, partially offset by lower margins on our
proprietary products due to product mix and stock-based compensation expense being included in the
current year amounts.

Generic margins increased for the three and six months ended December 31, 2005 due mainly to
the launches of new products, specifically Desmopressin and full-period contribution from
Didanosine, which carry higher margins than the average of our other generic products. The margin
increase related to these products was slightly offset by stock-based compensation expense.

Proprietary margins declined for the three and six months ended December 31, 2005 due
primarily to (a) an additional charge of $4.7 million to cost of sales as described earlier
related to the inventory purchased in the FEI acquisition, (b) the inclusion of stock-based
compensation expense in the current year and (c) a slight change in the mix of products, as
sales of higher margin products declined as a percentage of total proprietary sales.

Selling, General and Administrative Expense  

The following table sets forth selling, general and administrative expense for the three and
six months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in millions):

23

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the current quarter increased by 13% over the
prior year period and reflect the net benefit of $9.5 million relating to the Mircette transaction,
as discussed above. The quarter-over-quarter increase reflects (1) higher selling and marketing
costs of $6.9 million, (2) higher information technology costs of $3.4 million, (3) $2.6 million of
stock based compensation which we did not have in the prior year period and (4) an increase in
legal expenses of $2.9 million. Higher sales and marketing costs are primarily attributable to
higher marketing costs for Seasonale as well as costs for Enjuvia, which we expect to launch in
late fiscal 2006. The increase also includes higher sales force costs primarily related to the
additional sales force acquired in the acquisition of FEI. Higher information technology costs are
primarily related to consulting and training costs related to the implementation of our new SAP
enterprise resource planning system. Higher legal spending is attributable higher spending on
current litigation matters associated with certain antitrust cases and patent challenge matters.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the six month period increased by 10% over
the prior year period and reflect the net benefit of $8.4 million relating to the Mircette
transaction, as discussed above. The period-over-period increase reflects (1) higher selling and
marketing costs of $5.5 million, for the reasons discussed in connection with the quarterly
comparison above, (2) higher information technology costs of $4.1 million, for the reasons
discussed in connection with the quarterly comparison above, and (3) $5.0 million of stock based
compensation which we did not have in the prior year period.

Research and Development  

The following table sets forth research and development expenses for the three and six months
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in millions):

Research and development expenses for the current three and six month periods includes a
reimbursement of $5.0 million for previously incurred costs under a third party development
agreement. Excluding this reimbursement the remaining increase for the three month period included
$1.7 million in higher clinical trial costs and $1.5 million in stock-based compensation, which we
did not have in the prior year. The net increase for the six month period was primarily from $3.0
million in higher clinical trial costs, $2.9 million in stock-based compensation expenses which we
did not have in the prior year, $1.3 million in higher raw material costs and $1.3 million in
higher third party development costs.

Income Taxes  

The following table sets forth income tax expense and the resulting effective tax rate stated
as a percentage of pre-tax income for the three and six months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004
(dollars in millions):

24

The effective tax rate in the prior year quarter was favorably impacted by the
retroactive reinstatement on October 4, 2004, of the federal research tax credit which had
temporarily expired on June 30, 2004.

The tax rate for the current quarter was favorably impacted by the benefit of new tax
legislation,  Section 199  (Manufacturers Deduction, effective July 1, 2005), partially offset by
the unfavorable tax effect of SFAS 123R which prohibits the tax deductibility of certain
stock based compensation until the options are exercised in a disqualifying manner. We expect our
effective tax rate for the remainder of the year to be commensurate with the rate recorded in the
current quarter.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Our primary source of cash is the collection of accounts and other receivables primarily
related to product sales and our alliance, development and other revenues. Our primary uses of cash
include financing inventory, research and development, marketing, capital projects and business
development activities.

Within the past 12 months cash flows from operations have been more than sufficient to fund
our cash needs. At December 31, 2005, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable
securities totaled $421.8 million, a decrease of $221.5 million from our position at June 30, 2005.
The reduction is primarily due to the acquisitions made during the first half of fiscal 2006.

Operating Activities  

Our operating cash flows for the first half of fiscal 2006 were $104.8 million, compared with
$214.9 million for the prior year period. The decline compared to last year reflects an increase in
working capital due to the timing of certain accounts receivable collections and the timing of
certain liability payments. For example, the prior year s total
included the receipt of $47.7 million from
Aventis related to Ciprofloxacin price adjustments which were not repeated
during the first half of fiscal 2006. In addition, certain tax benefits which totaled $24.6 million
for the six months ended December 31, 2005 were reclassified from operating activities to financing
activities in fiscal 2006 as described below.

Components of the $104.8 million of operating cash flows in the first six months of fiscal
year 2006 include: (1) net earnings of $178.1 million, (2) a $66.0 million increase in accounts
receivable and other receivables due to the revenue recognized under our agreement with Teva for
the sale of generic Allegra and an overall increase in revenues, (3) a decrease in accounts payable
and accrued liabilities of $71.2 million due mainly to the payment of the legal settlement with
Organon for the Mircette acquisition, (4) the recording of stock-based compensation expense of
$13.9 million, and (5) the recording of $28.3 million in deferred taxes primarily related to the
Mircette acquisition.

Investing Activities  

Net cash used in investing activities totaled $253.0 million for the first six months of
fiscal 2006 compared with $128.0 million in the prior year period. The cash used in investing
activities in the current period consisted of our acquisitions of FEI and Mircette for a total of
$378.1 million (net of cash acquired) and capital expenditures of
$36.0 million, partially offset by net sales of marketable securities of
$164.2 million. The prior year included net purchases of marketable securities of $51.7 million,
capital expenditures of $24.9 million,

25

buyout of product royalty of $19.3 million and acquisitions
of $27.0 million. We expect capital expenditures to be approximately $50-60 million for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 2006.

Financing Activities  

Net cash provided by financing activities during the first half of fiscal 2006 was $62.4
million compared with net cash used of $99.6 million in the prior year period. The net cash
provided in the current fiscal year primarily reflects proceeds from the exercise of stock options
and employee stock purchases of $42.6 million and the tax benefit of stock incentive plans of
$24.6 million which was included as a component of operating cash flows in the prior year. The
cash generated by options exercised and employee stock purchases is heavily dependent on the
Company s stock price, which increased during the first half of the fiscal year. The level of
proceeds from stock option exercises realized in the first six months of fiscal 2006 may or may
not be repeated in subsequent periods. The net cash used in the prior year primarily reflected the
use of $100.0 million to repurchase shares of our common stock under our share repurchase.

Sufficiency of Cash Resources  

We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, investment balances,
cash flows from operations and un-drawn amounts under our revolving credit facility are adequate
to fund our operations and planned capital expenditures and to capitalize on strategic
opportunities as they arise. We have and will continue to evaluate our capital structure as part
of our goal to promote long-term shareholder value. To the extent that additional capital
resources are required, we believe that such capital may be raised by additional bank borrowings,
debt or equity offerings or other means.

Critical Accounting Policies  

The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying the accounting policies most critical
to our financial statements have a significant impact on our reported results. The Securities and
Exchange Commission has defined the most critical accounting policies as the ones that are most
important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results, and/or require us to make our
most difficult and subjective judgments. Based on this definition, our most critical policies are
the following: (1) revenue recognition and related provisions for estimated reductions to gross
revenues (2) inventories and related inventory reserves; (3) income taxes; (4) contingencies; and
(5) accounting for acquisitions. Although we believe that our estimates and assumptions are
reasonable, they are based upon information available at the time the estimates and assumptions
were made. We review the factors that influence our estimates and, if necessary, adjust them.
Actual results may differ significantly from our estimates.

There are no updates to our Critical Accounting Policies from those described in our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, as modified in our Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. Please see the  Critical Accounting
Policies  sections of those reports for a comprehensive discussion of our critical accounting
policies.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

In March 2005, the FASB published Interpretation No. 47,   Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations,   which clarifies that the term  conditional asset retirement obligation, 
as used in SFAS No. 143,   Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,   refers to a legal
obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of
settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the
entity. The uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset
retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient
information exists. The interpretation also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient
information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. The adoption
of this Interpretation during the second quarter of fiscal year 2006 did not have a material effect
on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

26

In June 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,   Accounting Changes and Error Corrections .  SFAS
No. 154 replaces APB (Accounting Principles Board) Opinion No. 20,   Accounting Changes,   and SFAS
No. 3,   Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements,   and changes the requirements
for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. This Statement applies to
all voluntary changes in accounting principle. It also applies to changes required by an accounting
pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific transition
provisions. When a pronouncement includes specific transition provisions, those provisions should
be followed. This Statement will be effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made
in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not believe that the adoption of SFAS No.
154 will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position.

Forward-Looking Statements  

Except for the historical information contained herein, the
statements made in this report constitute forward-looking statements
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements can be identified by their use of words
such as  expects,   plans,   will,   may,   anticipates,   believes,   should,   intends, 
 estimates  and other words of similar meaning. These statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties that cannot be predicted or quantified and, consequently, actual results may differ
materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks and
uncertainties include, in no particular order:

the difficulty in predicting the timing and outcome of legal proceedings, including
patent-related matters such as patent challenge settlements and patent infringement cases; 

the difficulty of predicting the timing of FDA approvals; 

court and FDA decisions on exclusivity periods; 

the ability of competitors to extend exclusivity periods for their products; 

our ability to complete product development activities in the timeframes and for the costs we expect; 

market and customer acceptance and demand for our pharmaceutical products; 

our dependence on revenues from significant customers; 

reimbursement policies of third party payors; 

our dependence on revenues from significant products including royalties on products
manufactured and marketed by third parties; 

the use of estimates in the preparation of our financial statements; 

the impact of competitive products and pricing on products, including the launch of
authorized generics; 

the ability to launch new products in the timeframes we expect; 

the availability of raw materials; 

the availability of any product we purchase and sell as a distributor; 

the regulatory environment; 

our exposure to product liability and other lawsuits and contingencies; 

the cost of insurance and the availability of product liability insurance coverage; 

our timely and successful completion of strategic initiatives, including integrating
companies and products we acquire and implementing our new enterprise resource planning
system; 

fluctuations in operating results, including the effects on such results from spending
for research and development, sales and marketing activities and patent challenge
activities; and 

other risks detailed from time-to-time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. 

We wish to caution each reader of this report to consider carefully these factors as well as
specific factors that may be discussed with each forward-looking statement in this report or
disclosed in our filings with the SEC, as such factors, in some cases, could affect our ability to
implement our business strategies and may cause actual results to differ materially from those
contemplated by the statements expressed herein. Readers are urged to carefully review and
consider these factors. We undertake no duty to update the forward-looking statements even though
our situation may change in the future.

27

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Our exposure to market risk for a change in interest rates relates primarily to our investment
portfolio of approximately $441.1 million. We do not use derivative financial instruments.

Our investment portfolio consists of cash and cash equivalents and market auction debt
securities primarily classified as  available for sale.  The primary objective of our investment
activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly
increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio in a variety of high credit
quality debt securities, including U.S., state and local government and corporate obligations,
certificates of deposit and money market funds. Over 76% of our portfolio matures in less than
three months, or is subject to an interest-rate reset date that occurs within that time. The
carrying value of the investment portfolio approximates the market value at December 31, 2005 and
the value at maturity. Because our investments consist of cash equivalents and market auction debt
securities, a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates is not likely to have a
material effect on our consolidated financial statements.

None of our outstanding debt at December 31, 2005 bears interest at a variable rate. Any
borrowings under our $175 million unsecured revolving credit facility will bear interest at a
variable rate based on the prime rate, the Federal Funds rate or LIBOR. At December 31, 2005, no
amounts were drawn under this facility.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures 

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and that such
information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Company s Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosures. Management necessarily applied its judgment in assessing the costs
and benefits of such controls and procedures, which, by their nature, can provide only reasonable
assurance regarding management s control objectives.

At the conclusion of the period ended December 31, 2005, the Company carried out an
evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its management, including the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon that
evaluation, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the
disclosure controls and procedures were effective in alerting them in a timely manner to
information relating to the Company required to be disclosed in this report.

Changes in internal controls 

In October 2005, the Company began migrating certain financial and sales processing systems to
SAP, a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform. The migration of the Company s remaining
financial, operational, and inventory processes will be implemented in two phases during the second
half of the fiscal year. In addition to expanding and improving access to information, the new ERP
system will provide a standard scalable information platform to accommodate business growth plans.
In connection with the ERP system implementation, the Company is updating its internal controls
over financial reporting, as necessary, to accommodate modifications to its business processes and
to take advantage of enhanced automated controls provided by the system. During the implementation
process to date, the Company believes it has taken the necessary steps to maintain internal control
systems that provide reasonable assurance of the accuracy of financial information.

28

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1. Legal Proceedings 

Litigation Matters 

The disclosure under Note 11-Commitments and Contingencies-Litigation Matters included in
Part 1 of this report is incorporated in this Part II, Item 1 by reference.

Item 4. Submissions of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

The Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. was held on November 3,
2005. Of the 106,623,333 shares entitled to vote, 96,967,548 shares were represented at
the meeting or by proxy or present in person. The meeting was held for the following purposes:

1. To elect nine directors. All nine nominees were elected based on the following votes cast:

2. 
       
     To ratify the Audit Committee s selection of Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as independent auditors for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2006, and
the result of such vote was as follows: 

3. 
       
     To increase the number of shares authorized for issuance under the Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and the result of such vote was as follows: 

4. 
       
     To eliminate animal-based test methods, as set forth in the shareholder proposal, and the
result of such vote was as follows: 

29

Item 6. Exhibits 

(a) Exhibits.

30

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

BARR PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 

Dated:
February 8, 2006

/s/ Bruce L. Downey

Bruce L. Downey

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

/s/ William T. McKee 

William T. McKee 

Vice President, Chief 

Financial Officer, and
Treasurer 

(Principal Financial Officer
and Principal Accounting
Officer) 

31

<EX-2.1>
 2
 y17265exv2w1.htm
 EX-2.1: PURCHASE AGREEMENT

EX-2.1 

EXECUTION COPY

Exhibit 2.1 

PURCHASE AGREEMENT

by and among

COPPER 380T LLC;

FEI WOMEN S HEALTH, LLC;

The Individuals 
Listed on 
the Signature Pages Hereto;

and

Duramed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Dated as of October 14, 2005

Table of Contents  

Defined
Terms  

401(k) Plans 

36 

Adjusted Final Allocation 

40 

Adverse Consequences 

50 

Affected Employee 

35 

Affiliates 

11 

Aggregate EAR Amount 

2 

Aggregate UAR Amount 

2 

Agreement 

1 

Allocation Resolution Period 

39 

Appreciation Rights Agreements  

2 

Barr 

1 

Baseline Valuation 

2 

Business Day

54 

Buyer 

1 

Buyer Breach 

51 

Buyer Disclosure Schedule 

27 

Buyer Indemnified Persons

49 

California Claim  

54 

California Lease 

54 

Closing 

3 

Closing Date 

3 

Closing Statement 

6 

Closing Time

55 

Closing Working Capital 

7 

COBRA 

16 

Code 

14 

Company 

1 

Company  August 31 Balance Sheet 

11 

Company Board 

8 

Company Disclosure Schedule

8 

Company Financial Statements 

11 

Company Group

40 

Company Indemnitees

33 

Company Intellectual Property 

21 

Company Plans 

15 

Company  September 30 Balance Sheet 

11 

Confidential Information

55 

Confidentiality Agreement 

32 

Consideration 

38 

Consolidated  Company Accounting Principals 

5 

Contested Claim 

54 

Craig Capital 

1 

Current Assets 

6 

Current Liabilities 

6 

D O Tail Policy 

33 

vii  

Ordinary Course
of Business

56 

Per Unit Amount 

3 

Permits

18 

Permitted Encumbrances 

19 

Person

10 

Population Council 

33 

Population Council Agreement 

33 

Pre-Closing Tax Period 

37 

Preliminary Allocation 

39 

Pro-Forma Consolidated Financial Statements 

11 

Public Announcement 

35 

Purchase Price Decrease 

7 

Purchase Price Increase 

7 

qualified plan 

15 

Release 

17 

Released Claim

42 

Releasees

42 

Releasors

42 

Representatives 

32 

Restructuring

1 

Restructuring Agreement 

1 

Section 1060 Forms 

39 

Seller  Breach 

49 

Seller Indemnified Persons 

51 

Sellers Disclosure Schedule 

2 

Sellers  Representatives

59 

September Pro-Forma Consolidated Financial Statements 

11 

Straddle Period 

37 

Studier Employment Agreement

56 

Studier Payment

56 

Subsidiary

10 

Supplemental Disclosure 

41 

Target Working Capital

5, 56 

Tax 

14 

Tax Return  

14 

Third Party Acquisition

41 

Third-Party Claim 

52 

Tinicum 

1 

Transfer Taxes 

38 

UAR 

2 

UAR Holdback Amount 

5 

Unit 

9 

Unit Appreciation Rights Agreements 

2 

Working Capital 

6 

ix  

PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of October 14, 2005 (this
  Agreement   ), by and among COPPER 380T LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the
 Company ), FEI Women s Health, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (  FWH  ), Tinicum
Capital Partners, L.P. (  Tinicum  ). Tinicum Capital Partners Parallel Fund, L.P., Tinicum
Capital Partners Executive Fund I, L.L.C., Craig Capital Corporation (  Craig Capital  ), the
Persons (as defined in Section 2.3 hereof) listed on the signature pages hereto (each of the
parties designated as Sellers in the signature pages hereto a  Seller  and collectively the
 Sellers ) and Duramed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Buyer  ) and
Subsidiary of Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (  Barr  ).

WITNESSETH

WHEREAS, prior to the Closing (as defined in Section 1.2 hereof), the Company will effect a
restructuring (the  Restructuring ) that will result in FWH becoming a Subsidiary ( as defined in
Section 2.3 hereof) of the Company; the Restructuring will be accomplished pursuant to the
Agreement and Plan of Reorganization (the   Restructuring
Agreement  ) substantially in the
form attached hereto as Exhibit  unless otherwise indicated herein or the context otherwise
requires, references in this Agreement to the Company s Subsidiaries are intended to include FWH as
if the Restructuring were effective as of the date hereof;

WHEREAS, as a result of the Restructuring, all of the Units (as defined in Section 2.2 hereof)
and UARs (as defined in Section 1.1(a) hereof) of FWH will convert into Units and UARs of the
Company, all EARs (as defined in Section 1.1 (b) hereof) of FWH will be cancelled and all EARs of
the Company will be adjusted, all as set forth in the Restructuring Agreement;

WHEREAS, the Sellers own or hold all of the outstanding Units (as defined in Section 1.1
(c) hereof) of the Company;

WHEREAS, all UARs (as defined in Section 1.1(a) hereof) and EARs (as defined in Section 1.1
(b) hereof) and any other Equity Securities of the Company (other than the Units) shall be settled
by the Company immediately prior to the Closing; and

WHEREAS, Buyer desires to acquire all of the outstanding Units from the Sellers, and the
Sellers who hold any Units desire to sell such Units to the Buyer upon the terms and subject to
the conditions set forth herein.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the representations, warranties, covenants, agreements and
conditions hereafter set forth, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree
as follows:

ARTICLE I

SETTLEMENT OF UARS AND EARS; SALE OF UNITS; CLOSING

SECTION
1.1  Settlement of UARs and EAR; Purchase and Sale of Units; .

1

(a) Immediately prior to and conditioned upon the occurrence of the Closing, the Company shall
cancel, or cause to be cancelled, each outstanding unit appreciation right (each a   UAR  )
of the Company granted under the Unit Appreciation Rights Agreements between the Company and the
holders of UARs (together, the   Unit Appreciation Rights Agreements  ), whether or not the
UAR is then vested or exercisable (it being understood that any outstanding UARs shall vest in full
upon the Closing), for the right to receive from the Company at the Closing a dollar amount equal
to the excess of the   Fair Value of a Phantom Unit   in respect of each UAR (as defined in
the Unit Appreciation Rights Agreements) over the   Baseline Valuation   applicable to each
UAR (as defined in the applicable Unit Appreciation Rights Agreement), less applicable withholding
tax. Each holder of an UAR acknowledges and agrees that the Fair Value of a Phantom Unit shall
equal the Per Unit Amount. The aggregate amount paid by the Company to the UAR holders at the
Closing pursuant to this Section 1.1 (a) (including applicable withholding tax and together with
the UAR Holdback Amount as defined in Section 1.2(d)(iii)) shall be referred to in this Agreement
as the   Aggregate UAR Amount  . Each UAR holder and the number of UARs held by such holder
upon completion of the Restructuring are set forth in Section l.l(a) of the Sellers Disclosure
Schedule (the   Sellers Disclosure Schedule  ).

(b) Immediately prior to and condition on the occurrence of the Closing, the Company shall
cancel, or cause to be cancelled, each outstanding equity appreciation right (each an   EAR  ) of the
Company granted under the Appreciation Rights Agreements between the Company and the holders of
EARs (together, the   Appreciation Rights Agreements  ), whether or not the EAR is then
vested or exercisable (it being understood that any outstanding EARs shall vest in full upon the
Closing) for the right to receive from the Company at the Closing a portion of the Aggregate EAR
Amount (as defined below) as set forth in Section 1.1 (b) of the Sellers Disclosure Schedule, less
applicable withholding tax. The aggregate amount paid by the Company at Closing pursuant to this
Section 1.1 (b) (including applicable withholding tax and together with the EAR Holdback Amount (as
defined in Section 1.2(d)(iii)) shall be referred to in this agreement as the   Aggregate EAR
Amount  . Each EAR holder is set forth in Section 1.1 (b) of the Sellers Disclosure Schedule.

(c) At Closing, Buyer agrees to purchase, acquire and accept from the Sellers (or from the
Sellers  Representatives (as defined in Section 10.6 hereof) acting on behalf of the Sellers) the
Units at the Closing for an aggregate price equal to $281,500,000.00 (such amount, as adjusted
prior to Closing pursuant to Section 1.3 hereof and as adjusted after Closing pursuant to Section
1.4 hereof, the   Purchase Price  ), a portion of which shall be paid in accordance with
Sections 1.1 (a) and 1.1 (b) to holders of UARs and EARs. At Closing, each Seller who holds any
Units agrees to sell, convey, assign, transfer and deliver to the Buyer each Unit owned by such
Seller, as set forth in Section 1.1 (c) of the Sellers Disclosure Schedule attached hereto (such
Schedule showing Unit ownership upon completion of the Restructuring) in exchange for the right to
receive from the Buyer the Per Unit Amount (as defined below), free and clear of all Encumbrances
(as defined in Section 2.3 hereof). Each Seller who holds any Units shall be entitled to receive
from Buyer the Per Unit Amount (as defined below)  multiplied  by the aggregate number of
Units next to the name of each such Seller in Section 1.1 (c) of

2

the Sellers Disclosure Schedule, and each such Seller shall be (i) entitled to receive from
Buyer such Seller s pro rata portion of any Purchase Price Increase (pursuant to Section 1.4(c)
hereof) or (ii) required to pay to Buyer such Seller s pro rata portion of any Purchase Price
Decrease (pursuant to Section 1.4(c) hereof). The Sellers acknowledge and agree that the   Per
Unit Amount   shall be calculated as set forth in Section 1.1 (c) of the Sellers Disclosure
Schedule.

(d) To the extent that Buyer has delivered all amounts provided for in this Agreement
to the Sellers, Sellers  Representatives and the Company, and to the extent that the Company has
delivered all amounts provided for in this Agreement to the Sellers, Sellers  Representatives, UAR
and EAR holders each Equityholder hereby acknowledges and agrees that neither the Buyer, the
Company nor any of their respective Affiliates (determined following the Closing) shall be liable
for any payment to the Equityholders with respect to any Equity Securities of the Company or its
Subsidiaries and that following the Closing the holders of EARs and UARs shall look solely to the
Sellers  Representatives for payment in respect of any EARs and UARs and shall have no claim
against the Company, its Subsidiaries, the Buyer or any of their respective Affiliates therefore.

SECTION 1.2  Closing .

(a) The closing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (the   Closing  )
shall take place at the offices of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher   Flom LLP, 4 Times Square, New
York, New York 10036 on the fifth business day following the satisfaction or waiver of the
conditions set forth in Articles VI and VII hereof; or if the Sellers  Representatives and Buyer
mutually agree on a different date, the date upon which they have mutually agreed. The date on
which the Closing occurs and the transactions contemplated hereby
become effective is referred to herein as the   Closing Date . 

(b) At the Closing, the Company shall deliver the following to the Buyer:

(i) all documents required to be delivered by the Company on or prior to
the Closing Date pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise required from the Company
in connection herewith;

(ii) the resignations of the members of the Company Board (as defined in
Section 2.1(b) hereof) and the boards of directors of each of its Subsidiaries;

(iii) the unit books, unit ledgers and minute books of the Company;
 provided  that any of the foregoing items shall be deemed to have been delivered
pursuant to this Section 1.2(b)(iii) if such item has been delivered to or is otherwise
located at the Company or any offices of the Company or its Subsidiaries;

3

(iv) good standing or equivalent certificates of the Company and each
Subsidiary from its jurisdiction of formation and each state or province where each such entity is
qualified to conduct business, dated within five (5) days prior to the Closing Date;

(v) a copy of the resolutions of the board of directors of the Company and its
Subsidiaries, as applicable, approving the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the
Restructuring as certified by an officer of the Company;

(vi) a copy of the Company s and each Subsidiary s organizational documentation as
certified by an officer of the Company;

(vii) a certificate, executed by Sellers  Representatives, on behalf of all Sellers, and
an authorized officer of the Company and dated the Closing Date, certifying that the provisions of
Section 6.1 (a) and (b) hereof have been satisfied; and

(viii) An opinion by Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher   Flom LLP pursuant to Section 6.6 hereof
in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.

(c) At the Closing, the Buyer shall, in the order specified:

(i) deliver to each Seller who holds any Units the Per Unit Amount  multiplied 
by the aggregate number of Units next to the name of each Seller in Section 1.1 (c) of the Sellers 
Disclosure Schedule by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the bank account designated
by each Seller prior to the Closing;

(ii) deliver to Escrow Agent the Escrow Amount by wire transfer of immediately available
funds;

(iii) deliver a certificate, executed by a duly authorized officer of the Buyer, certifying
that the provisions of Sections 6.1 (a) and (b) of this Agreement have been satisfied;

(iv) deliver all other documents required to be delivered by the Buyer on or prior to the
Closing Date pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise required from Buyer in connection herewith;
and

(v) deliver to the Company the Aggregate UAR Amount and the Aggregate EAR Amount by wire
transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company prior to the
Closing.

(vi) Deliver, from the Purchase Price, by wire transfer of immediately available funds
the fee payment to such third parties (which

4

shall include the fees to Lehman Brothers and the legal fees incurred
by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and
the sales process) as designated prior to Closing by Seller s Representatives pursuant
to Section 10.5 hereof.

(d) At the Closing, the Sellers  Representatives (on behalf of each Seller who holds any
Units) shall deliver to Buyer unit certificates representing the Units that each Seller is selling
to the Buyer and the associated stock transfer powers.

(e)
At the Closing, immediately following the steps set out in
Section 1.2(c) and 1.2(d), the
Company shall deliver:

(i) to the UAR holders, as contemplated by Section 1.1 (a) hereof, the
Aggregate UAR amount, less any UAR Holdback Amount and subject to applicable
withholding tax, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the bank accounts
designated by the Sellers and Sellers  Representatives prior to the Closing;

(ii) to the EAR holders, as contemplated by Section 1.1 (b) hereof, the
Aggregate EAR Amount, less any EAR Holdback Amount and subject to applicable withholding
tax, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the bank accounts designated by
the Sellers and Sellers  Representatives prior to the Closing; and

(iii) in accordance with the terms of the Contribution Agreements (as defined
in Section 5.10 hereof) to separate accounts designated by the Sellers and Sellers 
Representatives the UAR and EAR Amounts Holdback Amounts (each the   EAR Holdback
Amount   and   UAR Holdback Amount  ), as instructed by Sellers  Representatives prior
to the Closing;

SECTION
1.3  Pre-Closing Adjustment .

(a) At least five business days prior to Closing, the Sellers 
Representatives shall deliver to Buyer a statement that sets forth a good faith estimate of the
Working Capital (as defined in Section 1.4(a) hereof) of the Company as of the Closing Date (the
  Estimated Working Capital  ). The Estimated Working Capital shall be determined, on a
consolidated basis, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (  GAAP  )
and consistent with the Company s and FEI Women s Health, LLC s (a Delaware limited liability
company (  FWH  )) past practice used in calculating the components of Working Capital for
the Company Financial Statements and the FWH Financial Statements, except that in calculating the
Estimated Working Capital, all intercompany sales between FWH and the Company shall be eliminated
(the   Consolidated Company Accounting Principles  ). The Purchase Price (before giving
effect to the adjustments pursuant to this Section 1.3 and Section 1.4 hereof) shall be
 increased  by the positive amount by which the Estimated Working Capital exceeds negative
five million eight hundred and eighty two thousand six hundred dollars

5

($(5,882,600.00)) (the   Target Working Capital  ), or the Purchase Price
(before giving effect to the adjustments pursuant to this Section 1.3 and Section 1.4 hereof) shall
be  decreased  by the positive amount by which Target Working Capital exceeds the Estimated
Working Capital. The Target Working Capital was determined using the same methodology for
determining Working Capital, except that, for the purposes of Target Working Capital, Current
Assets (as defined in Section 1.4(a) hereof) did not include cash and cash equivalents and the
Current Liabilities did not include the then existing portion of indebtedness for borrowed money.

SECTION 1.4  Post-Closing Adjustment .

(a) Within 45 days following the Closing Date, the Sellers  Representatives shall prepare in
good faith and deliver to Buyer the statement (the   Closing Statement  ) that sets forth as
of the Closing Date the Working Capital of the Company and its Subsidiaries. The Working Capital
shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP and consistent with the Consolidated Company Accounting
Principals. Following the Closing, the
Company and Buyer shall provide, upon reasonable notice, Sellers  Representatives and its
Representatives (as defined in Section 5.2(a) hereof) full access to the properties, books,
records, work papers and personnel of the Company and shall cooperate fully with Sellers 
Representatives for purposes of preparing the Closing Statement. Buyer shall have 30 days after
delivery to Buyer of the Closing Statement during which to notify Sellers  Representatives of any
dispute of any item contained in the Closing Statement, which notice shall set forth in reasonable
detail the basis for such dispute and Buyer s good faith calculation of Working Capital. If Buyer
fails to notify the Sellers  Representatives of any such dispute within such 30-day period, the
Closing Statement shall be deemed to be the final statement (  Final Statement  ). In the
event that Buyer shall so notify the Sellers  Representatives of any dispute, Buyer and the
Sellers  Representatives and their respective accountants shall cooperate in good faith to resolve
such dispute as promptly as possible.   Working Capital   shall mean the sum of Current
Assets less Current Liabilities   Current Assets   shall mean the current assets of the
Company and its Subsidiaries as set forth on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP
(including cash and cash equivalents) and consistent with the Consolidated Company Accounting
Principles.   Current Liabilities   shall mean the current liabilities of the Company and its
Subsidiaries as set forth on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP and consistent with
the Consolidated Company Accounting Principles, excluding therefrom any liabilities associated with
purchasing the D O Tail Policy (as defined herein), procuring the Reviewed Financial Statements and
the Audited Financial Statements as contemplated by Section 5.16 hereof, the legal fees incurred by
the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement to the extent paid
pursuant to Section 10.5 out of the Purchase Price, the fees payable to Lehman Brothers as
contemplated by Sections 2.19 and 10.5 hereof to the extent paid pursuant to Section 10.5 out of
the Purchase Price, and the Studier Payment. For the avoidance of doubt, the Population Council
liabilities shall be accounted for in the same manner as by the Company in its calculation of the
Target Working Capital.

(b) If Buyer and the Sellers  Representatives and their respective accountants are unable to
resolve any dispute within 15 days of Buyer s delivery of any

6

notice of dispute provided pursuant to subsection (a) above, such dispute shall be resolved by
KPMG LLP or another mutually agreed to nationally recognized accounting firm (the   Independent
Accounting Firm  ), which shall be retained to resolve any disputes between Buyer and Sellers 
Representatives over any items contained in the Closing Statement (or which shall be retained to
resolve any disputes with respect to the Preliminary Allocation (as defined in Section 5.8(g)
hereof)) and shall make its determination as promptly as practicable, and such determination shall
be final and binding on the parties. The Independent Accounting Firm shall determine on the basis
of the standard set forth in Section 1.3, whether and to what extent, if any, the Closing Statement
requires adjustment;  provided ,  however , that the amount of Working Capital as set forth on
the Final Statement (the   Closing Working Capital  ) must fall within the bounds of Sellers 
Representatives  and Buyer s calculations of the Working Capital as of the Closing Date. The
Sellers shall collectively bear the percentage of the expenses relating to the engagement of the
Independent Accounting Firm that equals the absolute value of the difference between the Sellers 
Representatives  calculation of the Working Capital as of the Closing Date and the Closing Working
Capital divided by the absolute value of the difference between the Sellers  Representatives  and
Buyer s calculation of the Working Capital as of the Closing Date. Each Seller shall severally and
not jointly be responsible (except that Tinicum shall be jointly and severally responsible for the
Persons on Schedule II-A hereto and Craig Capital shall be jointly and severally responsible for
the Persons on Schedule II-B hereto) for its pro rata share of any expenses. Buyer shall bear the
percentage of the expenses relating to the engagement of the Independent Accounting Firm that
equals the absolute value of the difference between Buyer s calculation of the Working Capital as
of the Closing Date and the Closing Working Capital divided by the absolute value of the difference
between the Sellers  Representatives  and Buyer s calculation of the Working Capital as of the
Closing Date. The Independent Accounting Firm shall be instructed to use every reasonable effort to
perform its services within 15 business days of submission of the Closing Statement to it and, in
any case, as soon as practicable after submission. The Closing Statement, as modified by resolution
of any disputes by the Company and the Sellers  Representatives or by the Independent Accounting
Firm, shall be the Final Statement.

(c)The Purchase Price (after giving effect only to the adjustment pursuant to Section
1.3 hereof) shall be  increased  by the positive amount by which the Closing Working Capital
exceeds the Estimated
Working Capital (the   Purchase Price Increase  ), or the Purchase Price (after giving
effect only to the adjustment pursuant to Section 1.3 hereof) shall be  decreased  by the
positive amount by which the Estimated Working Capital exceeds the Closing Working Capital (the
  Purchase Price Decrease  ). To the extent there is a Purchase Price Increase, (x) the Escrow Agent
shall deliver the Escrow Amount along with any interest thereon, to Sellers  Representatives for
distribution to the Sellers and UAR Holders and (y) Buyer shall, within ten business days after
delivery of the Final Statement, make payment of the Purchase Price Increase, together with
interest thereon from the Closing Date until the date of payment at a fixed rate equal to the prime
rate per annum as quoted in the Wall Street Journal on the Closing Date, to Sellers 
Representatives for distribution to the Equityholders by wire transfer of immediately available
funds to the bank account designated prior to the Closing by the Sellers  Representatives. To the
extent that there is a Purchase Price Decrease, the

7

Escrow Agent shall deliver within ten business days after delivery of the Final
Statement, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the bank account designated by Buyer
prior to the Closing, the amount of the Purchase Price Decrease, together with the proportionate
amount of interest thereon from the Closing Date until the date of payment earned in the Escrow
Fund, and the Escrow Agent shall deliver any remaining balance of the Escrow Amount, together with
any proportionate interest thereon, to Sellers  Representatives for distribution to the Sellers and
UAR Holders. Any funds delivered to Sellers  Representatives hereunder shall be distributed by
Sellers  Representatives to all Sellers and UAR holders on a Fully Diluted pro-rata basis, after
giving effect to any payments to the EAR holders.

(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Company shall make adequate
provision for the payment of withholding, payroll and similar Taxes that arise as a result of the
payment of any amounts in respect of UARs and EARs hereunder. Any amount so withheld shall be
treated as if actually transferred to the relevant UAR holder or EAR holder.

ARTICLE II

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE COMPANY

Except as set forth under the section heading referring to a specific section of this
Agreement in the disclosure schedule of the Company (the   Company Disclosure Schedule  ),
the Company and, for purposes of Article IX, the Sellers (severally but not jointly, except that
Tinicum shall be jointly and severally liable for the Persons on Schedule II-A hereto and Craig
Capital shall be jointly and severally liable for the Persons on Schedule II-B hereto) represent
and warrant to Buyer as follows:

SECTION 2.1  Corporate Organization and Authority .

(a) Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its formation, and has all requisite corporate power
and authority to lease and operate the properties leased and operated by it and to carry on the
operations of its business as now being conducted by it. Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries
is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the property
leased or operated by it with respect to its business is located or in each jurisdiction in which
the nature of the business conducted by it makes such qualification necessary, except in such
jurisdictions where the failure to be so duly qualified or in good standing would not have a
Material Adverse Effect (as defined in Section 10.1 hereof).

(b) The Company has the requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder. The execution and delivery of this Agreement
and the performance of its obligations hereunder have been duly and validly authorized by the Board
of Directors of the Company (the   Company Board  ) and no other corporate proceedings on the
part of the Company are necessary to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this

8

Agreement. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and
constitutes, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement by
Buyer, FWH and the Sellers, a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable
against the Company in accordance with its terms, except that such enforcement may be
subject to or limited by (i) the effect of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,
moratorium and similar laws relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally and
(ii)the effect of general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is
considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).

SECTION 2.2  Capitalization .

(a) The entire authorized membership interests of the Company consist of 6,345,970 Class A
Common Interests represented by 6,345,970 Class A Units and 907,897 Class B Common Interests
represented by 907,897 Class B Units of the Company (each unit of the Company, or FWH, a
  Unit  ). As of the date of this Agreement, there were 6,345,970 Class A Units of the
Company issued and outstanding and 907,897 Class B Units of the Company issued and outstanding. As
of the date hereof, the authorized membership interests of FWH consist of 7,450,462.36 Class A
Common Interests represented by 7,450, 462.36 Class A Units and 823,529 Class B Common Interests
represented by 823,529 Class B Units. As of the date of this Agreement, there were 7,450,462.36
Class A Units of FWH and 823,529 Class B Units of FWH issued and outstanding). All outstanding
Units have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable. As of the
Closing the Company will directly own all of the Units of FWH as a result of the Restructuring and
the entire authorized membership interests of the Company will consist of 13,796,432.36 Class A
Common Interests represented by 13,796,432.36 Class A Units and 1,731,426 Class B Common Interests
represented by 1,731,426 Class B Units of the Company.

(b) Except as set forth in this Section 2.2 and Section 2.2 of the Company Disclosure Schedule
(such Schedule to reflect all EARs, UARs and other equity obligations as if the Restructuring had
occurred as of the date hereof), there are no outstanding (i) Equity Securities of the Company or
FWH; (ii) obligations of the Company or FWH to issue, any Equity Securities of the Company or FWH.
Except as set forth in this Section 2.2 and Section 2.2 of the Company Disclosure Schedule, there
are no outstanding obligations of the Company or FWH to issue, sell, repurchase, redeem or
otherwise acquire any Equity Securities of the Company or FWH. Except as set forth in Section 2.2
of the Company Disclosure Schedule, there are no voting trusts or proxies or other voting
arrangements with respect to the Company s or FWH s Equity Securities. Prior to the Closing, and as
set forth in the Restructuring Agreement, each EAR of FWH will be cancelled, each EAR of the
Company will be adjusted as contemplated by the Restructuring Agreement, and each UAR of FWH will
convert into a UAR of the Company.

SECTION 2.3  Subsidiaries . Section 2.3 of the Company Disclosure Schedule
contains a true and complete list of all Subsidiaries of the Company; (i) their names and
jurisdictions of incorporation, (ii) the number of authorized shares for each class of ownership
units, (iii) the number of issued and outstanding shares of each class of

9

ownership units, the names of the holders thereof, and the number of shares held by each
such holder, and (iv) the number of shares of ownership units held in treasury. All of the Equity
Securities of each of the Company s Subsidiaries have been validly issued and are fully paid and
nonassessable and are owned by the Company, or will be owned by the Company as of the Closing, free
and clear of all Encumbrances. There are no voting trusts, proxies, or other agreements or
understandings with respect to the voting of any Equity Securities of any Subsidiary of the
Company. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries controls directly or indirectly or has any
direct or indirect equity participation in any corporation, partnership, trust, or other business
association that is not a Subsidiary of the Company. Except for the Subsidiaries set forth in
Section 2.3 of the Company Disclosure Schedule, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries
owns or has any right to acquire, directly or indirectly, any outstanding Equity Securities in any
Person. For purposes of this Agreement  Encumbrances  shall mean any Lien, Tax, pledge, warrant,
purchase or other right, contract, commitment, equity, claim, demand or restriction on transfer of
any nature whatsoever. For purposes of this Agreement,  Subsidiary  means with respect to any
Person, any corporation, limited liability company or other legal entity of which such Person owns,
directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the outstanding Equity Securities, the holders of which
are entitled to vote for the election of the board of directors or other governing body of such
corporation, limited liability company or other legal entity. For purposes of this Agreement,
 Person  means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited liability company, an association, a joint-stock company, a
trust, any unincorporated organization, a government or political subdivision thereof or any other
entity.

SECTION 2.4  Consents and Approvals; No Violations .

(a) Except as set forth in Section 2.4(a) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, neither the
execution and delivery of this Agreement nor the performance by the Company of its obligations
hereunder will (i) conflict with or result in any breach of any provision of the certificates of
formation or limited liability company operating agreements (or similar organizational documents)
of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; (ii) result in a material violation or breach of, or
default (or give rise to any right of termination, cancellation, modification or acceleration),
conflict with or result in the creation of any Encumbrance under any of the terms, conditions or
provisions of any note, mortgage, letter of credit, other evidence of Indebtedness, guarantee,
license, lease, contract or agreement or similar instrument or obligation to which the Company or
any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which they or any of their assets, whether tangible or
intangible, may be bound; or (iii) materially violate any order, injunction, decree, statute, rule
or regulation of any governmental agency or authority or court to which the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries is subject.

(b) Except as would not be material to the Company, and except as set forth in Section 2.4(b)
of the Company Disclosure Schedule, no filing or registration with, notification to, or
authorization, consent or approval of, any local, state, federal or foreign court, legislative,
executive, governmental or regulatory authority or agency (each, a   Governmental
Authority  ) is required in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the
Company or the performance by the Company of its

10

obligations hereunder, except (i) compliance with any applicable requirements of the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the   HSR Act  ), or any
other competition or antitrust law in relevant jurisdictions; and (ii) those that become applicable
as a result of the matters specifically related to Buyer or its affiliates (as such term is defined
in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) (  Affiliates  ).

SECTION 2.5  Financial Statements .

(a) The Company has delivered to Buyer a true and complete copy of the pro-forma unaudited
consolidated balance sheet (including FWH) of the Company as of August 31, 2005 (the   Company
August 31 Balance Sheet  ), and the pro-forma unaudited consolidated (including FWH) statement
of income and cash flows of the Company (including FWH) for the eight-month period then ended (the
  Pro-Forma Consolidated Financial Statements  ). The Pro-Forma Consolidated Financial
Statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP, consistently applied, are consistent with the
books and records of the Company and the Subsidiaries (which books and records are correct and
complete in all material respects), and fairly present, in all material respects, the pro-forma
financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries (including FWH) as of August 31, 2005 and
the pro-forma results of operations and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries (including
FWH) for the period then ended (subject, to normal, recurring and year-end audit adjustments and
the exclusion of certain footnotes thereto). As promptly as practical after the date hereof, the
Company will furnish a true and complete copy of the pro-forma unaudited consolidated balance sheet
(including FWH) of the Company as of September 30, 2005 (the   Company September 30 Balance
Sheet  ) and the pro-forma unaudited consolidated (including FWH) statement of income and cash
flows of the Company (including FWH) for the nine-month period then ended (the   September
Pro-Forma Consolidated Financial Statements  ). The Company September 30 Balance Sheet and
September Pro-Forma Consolidated Financial Statements shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP,
consistently applied, are consistent with the books and records of the Company and the Subsidiaries
(which books and records are correct and complete in all material respects), and fairly present, in
all material respects, the pro-forma financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries
(including FWH) as of September 30, 2005 and the pro-forma results of operations and cash flows of
the Company and its Subsidiaries (including FWH) for the period then ended (subject, to normal,
recurring and year-end audit adjustments and the exclusion of certain footnotes thereto).

(b) The Company has delivered to Buyer a true and complete copy of the audited consolidated
balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 and the audited
consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Company for the fiscal years ended December
31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 (including, in each case, any notes thereto) (collectively, the
  Company Financial Statements  ). The Company Financial Statements were prepared in
accordance with GAAP, applied on a consistent basis, are consistent with the books and records of
the Company and the Subsidiaries (which books and records are correct and complete in all material
respects), and fairly present, in all material respects, the financial condition of

11

the Company and its Subsidiaries (other than FWH) as of the dates thereof and the results of
operations and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries (other than FWH) for the periods then
ended.

(c) FWH has delivered to Buyer a true and complete copy of the audited balance
sheets of FWH as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 and the audited statements of income
and cash flows of FWH for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003
(including, in each case, any notes thereto) (collectively, the   FWH Financial
Statements  ). The FWH Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a
consistent basis, are consistent with the books and records of FWH (which books and records are
correct and complete in all material respects), and fairly present, in all material respects, the
financial condition of FWH as of the dates thereof and the results of operations and cash flows of
FWH for the periods then ended.

SECTION 2.6  Absence of Material Adverse Changes, etc. 

(a) Except as set forth in Section 2.6 (a) of the Company Disclosure Schedule or as otherwise
contemplated by this Agreement or pursuant to the Restructuring Agreement (including the fees
incurred by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby), since December
31, 2004, there has not been any event, change, occurrence or circumstance that has had, or could
reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect.

(b) Except as set forth in Section 2.6 (b) of the Company Disclosure Schedule or as otherwise
contemplated by this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, since August 31, 2005 (i)
neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has taken any action or failed to take any action
that if taken or failed to be taken after the date hereof would be, or could reasonably be expected
to result in an event that would be, in violation of Section 5.1 of this Agreement and (ii) neither
the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has experienced any damage, destruction, or loss (whether
or not covered by insurance) to its property. Except as set forth in Section 2.6 (b) of the Company
Disclosure Schedule or as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement and the transactions
contemplated hereby, since December 31, 2004, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries have
taken any action or failed to take any action that if taken or failed to be taken after the date
hereof would be, or could reasonably be expected to result in an event that would be, in violation
of Sections 5.1 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (j), (m),(n), or (r) of this Agreement.

SECTION 2.7  No Undisclosed Liabilities . Except as, and to the extent, set forth
in or contemplated by this Agreement or pursuant to the Restructuring Agreement (including the fees
incurred by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby), the Company
Disclosure Schedule, the Company August 31 Balance Sheet and FWH August 31, 2005 Balance Sheet,
neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries had, at August 31, 2005, any material liabilities
(whether accrued, absolute, contingent, known or unknown), and neither the Company nor any of its

12

Subsidiaries has, since August 31, 2005, incurred any material liability (whether accrued,
absolute, contingent, known or unknown) other than in the Ordinary Course of Business.

SECTION 2.8  Taxes .

(a) Except as set forth in Section 2.8 of the Company Disclosure Schedule:

(i) the Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all Tax Returns (as defined
below) required to be filed (taking into account extensions), and all such Tax
Returns are true, correct and complete;

(ii) the Company and its Subsidiaries have paid all Taxes (as defined below)
owed by any of them (whether or not shown to be due on such Tax Returns);

(iii) no deficiencies for any Tax have been proposed, asserted or assessed in
writing by any taxing authority against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, none of
the Tax Returns of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries currently is being audited,
nor has the Company or any of its Subsidiaries received written notice from any taxing
authority of any intention to open an audit;

(iv) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to any Tax
allocation, Tax sharing or other similar agreement;

(v) there are no agreements to extend the period of assessment or
collection of Taxes of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;

(vi) there are no liens for Taxes on any asset of the Company or any of
its Subsidiaries other than Permitted Encumbrances (as defined in Section 2.14(a)
hereof);

(vii) Since November 15, 2002, the Company has, and since January 3, 2003, FWH
has, properly been classified as a partnership within the meaning of Treasury Regulation
Section 301.7701-3 for all applicable Tax purposes;

(viii) each of the Company and its Subsidiaries has withheld and paid all Taxes
required to have been withheld and paid in connection with any amounts paid or owing to
any employee, independent contractor, creditor, stockholder or other third party, and
all Internal Revenue Service Forms W-2 and 1099 required with respect thereto have been
properly completed and timely filed;

13

(ix) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is currently the
beneficiary of any extension of time within which to file any Tax Return;

(x) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries (nor, to the
Knowledge of the Company, any predecessor thereof) has been a member of an affiliated
group filing a consolidated federal income Tax Return (other than Tax Returns which
include only the Company and any of its Subsidiaries), and neither the Company nor any
of its Subsidiaries has any liability for the Taxes of any other Person under Treasury
Regulation Section 1.1502-6 (or any similar provision of state, local or non-United
States tax law, as a transferee or successor, by contract or otherwise);

(xi) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is party to any
agreement, contract, arrangement or plan that has resulted or could result, separately
or in the aggregate, in any  excess parachute payment  within the meaning of Code
Section 280G (or any corresponding provision of state, local or non-United States Tax
law);

(xii) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has engaged in any
 listed transaction  or any  reportable transaction  that has as its principal purpose
the avoidance of tax, as defined in the Treasury Regulations promulgated under Sections
6011 and 6012 of the Code; and

(xiii) the unpaid Taxes of the Company and its
Subsidiaries, being current Taxes not yet due and payable, (A) did not, as of the date
of the Company August 31 Balance Sheet, exceed the reserve for Taxes (rather than any
reserve for deferred Taxes established to reflect timing differences between book and
Tax income) set forth on the face of the Company August 31 Balance Sheet (rather than any notes thereto) and (B)
will not exceed that reserve as adjusted for the passage of time through the Closing
Date in accordance with the past custom and practice of the Company and its Subsidiaries
in filing their Tax Returns.

(b) For
purposes of this Agreement, (i)   Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended; (ii)   Tax   means all United States federal, state or local or non-United States taxes,
assessments, charges, duties, levies or other similar governmental charges of any nature, including
all income, franchise, profits, capital gains, capital stock, transfer, sales, use, occupation,
property, excise, severance, windfall profits, stamp, stamp duty reserve, license, payroll,
withholding, ad valorem, value added, alternative minimum, environmental, customs, social security
(or similar), unemployment, sick pay, disability, registration and other taxes, assessments,
charges, duties, fees, levies or other similar governmental charges of any kind whatsoever, whether
disputed or not, together with all estimated taxes, deficiency assessments, additions to tax,
penalties and interest; and (iii)   Tax Return   means any report, return, statement, claim for
refund, information return or other written information supplied to a

14

taxing authority in connection with Taxes, including any amendment thereof or
attachment or schedule thereto.

SECTION
2.9  Employee Benefit Plans .

(a) Section 2.9(a) of the Company Disclosure Schedule contains a complete and correct list of
each deferred compensation and each bonus or other incentive compensation, option, equity
appreciation right and other equity compensation plan, program or arrangement; each severance,
medical, surgical, hospitalization, life insurance and other  welfare  plan, fund or program
(within the meaning of Section 3(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended (  ERISA   each profit- sharing, 401(k) savings or other  pension  plan, fund or program
(within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA); each employment, retention or severance agreement;
and each other benefit plan, program, policy, arrangement or agreement, in each case, that is
sponsored, maintained or contributed to or required to be contributed to by the Company or any of
its Subsidiaries or by any corporation, trade or business, whether or
not incorporated (an   ERISA Affiliate  ), that together with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries would be deemed a  single
employer  within the meaning of Section 4001(b) of ERISA or Section 414 of the Code, or with
respect to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has any current or potential liability (the
  Company Plans  ). Accurate and complete copies of all Company Plans and the most recent summary
plan description and Internal Revenue Service determination letter, if any, have been made
available to Buyer.

(b) Except as set forth in Section 2.9(b) of the Company Disclosure Schedule: (i) all
contributions, distributions and premium payments required to be made with respect to each Company
Plan on or prior to the Closing Date have been timely made or have been accurately reflected on
Company Financial Statements; (ii) each Company Plan has been maintained, funded and operated in
all material respects in accordance with its terms and the requirements of applicable Law; (iii)
the Company and its Subsidiaries have not incurred any direct or indirect liability under, arising
out of or by operation of Title IV of ERISA, in connection with the termination of, or withdrawal
from, any Company Plan or other retirement plan or arrangement that the Company, any Subsidiary of
the Company or any ERISA Affiliate maintains or ever has maintained or to which any of them
contributes, ever has contributed, or ever has been required to contribute, and no fact or event
exists that could reasonably be expected to give rise to any such liability; (iv) none of the
Company or any Subsidiary of the Company or any Company Plan or any trustee or administrator
thereof has engaged in a transaction in connection with which the Company or any Subsidiary of the
Company, any Company Plan, or any trustee or administrator thereof, could be subject to either a
civil penalty assessed pursuant to Section 409 or 502(i) of ERISA or a tax imposed pursuant to
Section 4975 or 4976 of the Code; and (v) no material action, audit, suit, proceeding, hearing, or
investigation with respect to any Company Plan (other than routine claims for benefits) is pending
or threatened and, to the Knowledge of the Company, there is no basis for any such action, audit,
suit, proceeding, hearing or investigation.

15

(c) No Company Plan is subject to Title IV of ERISA or Section 302 of ERISA. None of the Company
or any Subsidiary of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate has ever contributed to or been required to contribute to a  multiemployer pension plan,  as defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA.

(d) Each
Company Plan that is intended to meet the requirements of a
  qualified plan   under Section 401 (a) of the Code has received a determination from the Internal Revenue Service
that such Company Plan is so qualified, and there are no facts or circumstances that could
adversely affect the qualification of any Company Plan.  All such Company Plans have been timely
amended for the requirements of the legislation commonly known as
  GUST   and   EGTRRA   and have been
submitted to the Internal Revenue Service for a favorable determination letter on the GUST
requirements within the remedial amendment period prescribed by GUST.

(e) Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries maintains, contributes to or has an
obligation to contribute to, or has any obligation or liability with respect to, the provision of
any health or life insurance or other welfare-type benefits for current or future retired or
terminated directors, officers, employees or contractors (or any spouse or other dependent thereof)
other than (i) coverage in accordance with Part 6 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA, Section 4980B
of the Code or any similar state law (  COBRA  ) or (ii) benefits the full costs of which are borne
by the current or former employee. The Company, its Subsidiaries and each ERISA Affiliate have
complied in all material respects with the requirements of COBRA.

(f) The Company and its Subsidiaries have, for purposes of each Company Plan, correctly
classified those individuals performing services for the Company and its Subsidiaries as common law
employees, leased employees, independent contractors or agents.

SECTION
2.10  Environmental Matters .

(a)
(i)   Environmental Claim   means any claim, action, cause of action,
investigation or written notice by any Person alleging potential liability arising out of, based on
or resulting from (a) the presence or Release (as defined below) of, or exposure to, any Hazardous
Materials (as defined below) noise or odor or (b) any violation or alleged violation of any
Environmental Law (as defined below).

(ii)
  Environmental Laws   means all federal, state, local and foreign
laws and regulations, all common law and all other provisions having the force or effect
of law relating to pollution or protection of the environment, including, without
limitation, those relating to Releases or threatened Releases of Hazardous Materials
noise or odor or otherwise relating to the use, treatment, storage, transport exposure
to or handling of Hazardous Materials.

(iii)
  Hazardous Materials   means any substance or material that is a
 hazardous substance  under the federal Comprehensive

16

Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, a
 hazardous waste  under the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, a
 pollutant  or  toxic pollutant  under the federal Clean Water Act, a chemical
substance subject to regulation under the federal Toxic Substances Control Act, a
 pesticide  under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, or
substances defined as Hazardous Substances, Oils, Pollutants or Contaminants in the
National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan, 40 C.F.R.   300.5.

(iv)  Release  means any release, spill, emission, discharge, leaking,
pumping, pouring, dumping, injection, deposit, disposal, dispersal, leaching or
migration of Hazardous Materials, noise or odor into the environment (including,
without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater and surface or
subsurface strata).

(b)  (i) Except as set forth in Section 2.10(b)(i) of the Company
Disclosure Schedule, to the Knowledge of the Company the Company and its
Subsidiaries are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable Environmental
Laws (which compliance includes, but is not limited to, the possession by the Company
and its Subsidiaries of all permits and other governmental authorizations required under
applicable Environmental Laws, which are in full force and effect, and compliance with
the terms and conditions thereof). As of the date of this Agreement, the Company and its
Subsidiaries (other than FWH) have not received since October 30, 2000, and FWH has
not received since January 3, 2003, any written communication, whether from a
governmental authority, citizens  group, employee or otherwise, alleging that the
Company and its Subsidiaries are not in such compliance with Environmental Laws or
may be liable under Environmental Laws for injury or damages to persons, property or
the environment or for costs of investigation or cleanup of Hazardous Materials.

(ii) Except as set forth in Section 2.10(b)(ii) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, there is no material Environmental Claim pending or to the Knowledge of
the Company, threatened against the Company and its Subsidiaries or against any
Person whose liability for any Environmental Claim the Company and its Subsidiaries
has or may have retained or assumed either contractually or by operation of law.

(iii) There have been no Releases of Hazardous Materials, noise or odor at
any of the Leased Real Property, or to the Knowledge of the Company at any third
party location to which the Company sent, or caused to be sent, Hazardous Materials
or to the Knowledge of the Company at any other location that would be material to
the Company.

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the
representations and warranties made in this Section 2.10 are the sole and exclusive

17

representations made in this Agreement by the Sellers, the Company and its Subsidiaries with
respect to environmental matters.

SECTION 2.11  Legal Proceedings, etc . Except as set forth in Section 2.11 of the
Company Disclosure Schedule, there are no suits, grievances, actions, claims, proceedings or
investigations pending, or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened against or involving the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries (or any holders of its Equity Securities, officers or directors
of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the business or affairs of the Company
or any of its Subsidiaries). None of the items set forth in Section 2.11 of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, if adversely determined, would have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth in
Section 2.11 of the Company Disclosure Schedule, the Company, its Subsidiaries and their assets are
not subject to any material judgments, decrees, injunctions, or orders of any (i) United States
court or (ii) any other court.

SECTION 2.12  Compliance with Applicable Law . Except as set forth in Section 2.12
of the Company Disclosure Schedule, each of the Company and its Subsidiaries is in material
compliance with all applicable Laws and Orders of any federal, state, local or foreign governmental
authority applicable to its business and operations. Except as set forth in Section 2.12 of the
Company Disclosure Schedule, as of the date hereof, to the Knowledge of the Company there are no
Laws or Orders or pending or proposed legislation that would adversely affect the business of the
Company or its Subsidiaries in any geographic area. All material governmental approvals, permits,
licenses and other governmental authorizations (collectively,  Permits ) required to conduct the
business of the Company and its Subsidiaries are in the possession of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries, are in full force and effect and are being materially complied with.

SECTION 2.13  Certain Contracts and Arrangements . Section 2.13 of the Company
Disclosure Schedule sets forth all written and oral (a) Leases (as defined in Section 2.14(a)
hereof), Company Plans, and collective bargaining agreements, (b) personal property leases
involving annual payments in excess of $100,000, (c) guarantees, (d) leases or agreements under
which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is lessor of or permits any third party to hold or
operate any property, real, personal or intangible, owned or controlled by the Company or any of
its Subsidiaries, (e) contracts or group of related contracts with the same party for the purchase
or sale of supplies, products or other personal property or for the furnishing or receipt of
services which will extend over a period of more than one year, or involves a sum in excess of
$250,000 annually (excluding any purchase orders or tooling orders), (f) agreements concerning any
partnership or joint venture, (g) agreements with any of the Sellers or their Affiliates, (h)
profit sharing, security option, security purchase, security appreciation, deferred compensation,
severance or other plan or arrangement for the benefit of the Company s or its Subsidiaries 
current or former directors, officers or employees, (i) agreements for the employment of an
individual on a full-time, part-time, consulting, or other basis or providing severance benefits in
excess of $10,000, (j) agreements under which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has advanced
or loaned any amount to any Person, (k) agreements under which the consequences of a default or
termination would likely have a

18

Material Adverse Effect, (1) settlements, conciliations or similar agreements, the
performance of which will involve payment of a material amount after the Closing Date, (m)
contracts which prohibit the Company or its Subsidiaries from freely engaging in business anywhere
in the world and (n) any other agreements (or group of related agreements) the performance of which
involves consideration in excess of $250,000 (collectively, the  Material Contracts ) to which the
Company or any Subsidiary of the Company is a party. Except as set forth in Section 2.13 of the
Company Disclosure Schedule, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries, or, to the Knowledge
of the Company, any other party thereto, is in material breach of, or default under, any of the
Material Contracts or License Agreements in any material respect, or under any other group of
agreements that individually or in the aggregate involves payments in excess of $250,000 annually
and no event has occurred that with notice or passage of time or both would constitute such a
material breach or default thereunder by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or, to the
Knowledge of the Company, any other party thereto. The Company has delivered or made available
copies of or summaries of oral arrangements the Material Contracts and License Agreements to Buyer.

SECTION 2.14  Leased Real Property .

(a) For purposes of this Agreement,   Permitted Encumbrances   means (i)
mechanics , carriers , workers , repairers , materialmen s, warehousemen s, landlord s and other
similar Encumbrances arising or incurred in the Ordinary Course of Business for amounts which are
not due and payable and which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse
Effect on the property to which such Encumbrances relate; (ii) Encumbrances arising or resulting
from any action taken by Buyer; (iii) Encumbrances for current Taxes, assessments and other
governmental charges not yet due and payable or that may subsequently by paid without penalty; (iv)
Encumbrances for current Taxes, assessments and other governmental charges that have become due and
payable that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for which appropriate
reserves in accordance with GAAP have been established; (v) Encumbrances which would appear on an
accurate survey of Leased Real Property; (vi) any other covenants, conditions, restrictions,
reservations, rights, claims, rights-of-ways, easements and other similar matters of record
affecting title, which do not or would not individually or in the aggregate materially adversely
affect the value or current use of any of the Leased Real Property; (vii) zoning, building, land
use, and other similar restrictions imposed by law, statute, rule, regulation, ordinance, order or
process promulgated by any Governmental Authority; (viii) matters of public record; (ix) the terms
of the Leases (as defined below) and liens of the lessor under the Leases for sums not yet due and
payable; and (x) matters set forth in Section 2.14(a) of
the Company Disclosure Schedule.   Leases  
means the real property leases, subleases, licenses and use or occupancy agreements pursuant to
which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is the lessee, sublessee, licensee, user or occupant
of real property, or interests therein. The Leased Real Property comprises all real property
necessary for the conduct of, or otherwise material to, the business of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries as it is currently conducted.   Leased Real Property   means all interests in
real property leased, subleased, licensed, used or occupied by the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries pursuant to the Leases. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries owns any real
property.

19

(b) Section 2.14(b) of the Company Disclosure Schedule sets forth a complete and
correct list of all Leased Real Property setting forth information sufficient to identify
specifically such Leased Real Property and a true and complete list of all Leases for each such
Leased Real Property. Each Lease grants the Company and its Subsidiaries the right to use and
occupy the applicable Leased Real Property in accordance with the terms thereof, subject to
Permitted Encumbrances. The Company and its Subsidiaries have valid leasehold estates or other
similar interests in the Leased Real Property created under its respective Leases, which leasehold
estates are free and clear of any Encumbrances other than Permitted Encumbrances. Except as set
forth in Section 2.14(b) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, with respect to each of the Leases:
(i) the Company s or Subsidiary s possession and quiet enjoyment of the Leased Real Property under
such Lease has not been disturbed, and to the Company s knowledge, there are no disputes with
respect to such Lease other than disputes which would not be expected to have a Material Adverse
Effect; (ii) no security deposit or portion thereof deposited with respect such Lease has been
applied in respect of a breach or default under such Lease which has not been redeposited in full;
(iii) neither the Company nor Subsidiary owes, or will owe in the future, any brokerage commissions
or finder s fees with respect to such Lease; (iv) the other party to such Lease is not an Affiliate
of, and otherwise does not have any economic interest in, the Company or any Subsidiary; (v) the
Company or Subsidiary has not subleased, licensed or otherwise granted any Person the right to use
or occupy such Leased Real Property or any portion thereof; and (vi) the Company or Subsidiary has
not collaterally assigned or granted any other security interest in such Lease or any interest
therein.

SECTION 2.15  Labor Matters . Except as set forth in Section 2.15 of the Company
Disclosure Schedule, (i) the Company and its Subsidiaries are not a party to or bound by any
collective bargaining agreement or other labor union contract applicable to persons employed by the
Company or its Subsidiaries, nor does the Company know of any activities or proceedings on behalf
of or by any labor union to organize any such employees; (ii) there are no unfair labor practice
charges or complaints, or any current union representation questions, involving employees or former
employees of the Company or its Subsidiaries pending against the Company or its Subsidiaries before
the National Labor Relations Board or similar foreign entity; and (iii) there is no labor strike,
lockout, organized slowdown or organized work stoppage in effect or, to the Knowledge of the
Company, threatened against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.

SECTION 2.16  Insurance . Section 2.16 of the Company Disclosure Schedule sets forth
all insurance policies with respect to the property, assets, operation and business of the Company
and its Subsidiaries. All such insurance policies are in full force and effect, all premiums
currently owed thereon have been paid, and the Company and the Subsidiaries are otherwise in
compliance with the terms and provisions of such policies. Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary
is in default under any of the insurance policies set forth in Section 2.16 of the Company
Disclosure Schedule (or required to be set forth in Section 2.16 of the Company Disclosure
Schedule). Except as set forth in Section 2.16 of the Company Disclosure Schedule, neither the
Company nor any Subsidiary has received any notice of cancellation or non-renewal of any such
policy

20

or arrangement nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, has any termination of any such
policies or arrangements been threatened.

SECTION 2.17  Intellectual Property . Except as set forth in Section 2.17 of the
Company Disclosure Schedule:

(a) The Company and its Subsidiaries own free and clear of all
Encumbrances or have the right to use pursuant to a License Agreement all patents, new
drug application, drug master file, trademarks and service marks, domain names,
copyrights, computer software, trade secrets, and other intellectual property, necessary or
used for the operation of the business of the Company and it Subsidiaries as currently
conducted, collectively, the   Company Intellectual Property  ). The Company
Intellectual Property is valid, subsisting and enforceable, and the Company has taken reasonable
measures to maintain and protect the Company Intellectual Property.

(b) Section 2.17(b) of the Company Disclosure Schedule sets forth, for
the intellectual property owned or used by the Company and its Subsidiaries, a complete
list of all: (i) patents and patent applications; (ii) trademark registrations and trademark
applications; (iii) Internet domain name registrations; (iv) copyright registrations and
copyright applications, (v) trade or corporate names, (vi) material unregistered
trademarks, and (vii) material computer software (other than commercially available,
shrink-wrap software with a replacement cost and/or annual license fee of less than
$25,000). Section 2.17(b) of the Company Disclosure Schedule also sets forth a
complete and accurate list of all licenses and other agreements under which the Company
or any of its Subsidiaries grants or obtains any rights in or to any intellectual property
(other than licenses for commercially available, shrink-wrap software with a replacement
cost and/or annual license fee of less than $25,000) (collectively,
  License Agreements  ).
There are no pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened proceedings or
litigation or other adverse claims by any Person against the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries contesting the use or ownership by the Company and its Subsidiaries or the
validity or enforceability of any Company Intellectual Property, and no such claims were
made against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries within the past five (5) years. The
Company Intellectual Property is not subject to any outstanding consent, settlement,
decree, order, injunction, judgment or ruling restricting the use thereof.

(c) To the Knowledge of the Company, (i) the conduct of the business
of the Company and its Subsidiaries as currently conducted does not infringe upon,
misappropriate or otherwise conflict with the intellectual property rights of any third
party, and the Company and its Subsidiaries have not received any notice of the
foregoing (including any offers or demands to license any intellectual property), and (ii)
to the Knowledge of the Company no third party is infringing upon, misappropriating or
otherwise conflicting with any Company Intellectual Property.

SECTION 2.18  Food and Drug Administration .

21

(a) Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries currently is or, at
any time in the past, has been, the subject of any enforcement action brought by or on
behalf of the Food and Drug Administration (the
  FDA  

(b) Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary has ever received any
warning letter from the FDA;

(c) The Company has provided Buyer with copies of all Establishment
Inspection Reports of FDA inspections of the Company s and its Subsidiaries  facilities
and Form FDA-483 s issued to or received by the Company or its Subsidiaries within the
past five (5) years;

(d) All deficiencies noted in any Form FDA-483 issued to the
Company or its Subsidiaries have been corrected;

(e) Section 2.18 of the Company Disclosure Schedule lists all changes
to the manufacturing process, controls or labeling of the products manufactured by the
Company, including without limitation copper-bearing intrauterine devices, that have
been implemented since approval of the last New Drug Application Supplement relating
to the Company s or its Subsidiaries  products; none of such changes listed in Section
2.18 of the Company Disclosure Schedule required or requires approval by the FDA
before implementation;

(f) No FDA inspection has been conducted at the Company or its
Subsidiaries other than those that are the subject of the Establishment Inspection Reports
and/or Form FDA-483 s that are the subject of Section 2.18(c) above;

(g) To the Knowledge of the Company, no action has been threatened
by the FDA that would materially affect the New Drug Application pursuant to which the
Company or its Subsidiaries manufactures and markets its products; and

(h) The Company and its Subsidiaries have complied, and are in compliance, with in all
material respects all obligations and prohibitions imposed on it by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act, as amended, and the regulations, guidance, and other applicable regulatory policies
promulgated thereunder.

SECTION 2.19  Certain Fees . Except for Lehman Brothers ( Lehman Brothers ), (i) the
Company and its Subsidiaries have not employed any financial advisor or finder and (ii) the Company
and its Subsidiaries have not incurred any liability for any financial advisory or finders  fees or
similar compensation in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The
fees incurred by Lehman Brothers shall be paid in accordance with Section 10.5 hereof.

SECTION 2.20  Major Customers and Suppliers . Section 2.20 of the Company Disclosure
Schedule contains a list of the top ten (10) customers of the Company and its Subsidiaries (by
volume in dollars of sales to such customers) for each of the 12-month periods ended December 31,
2003 and December 31, 2004, and any additional customers expected to be among the top ten (10)
customers of the Company and its Subsidiaries for

22

the
12-month period ended December 31, 2005 (the  Major Customers ) Except as set forth in
Section 2.20 of the Company Disclosure Schedule, since December 31, 2004, none of the Company and
the Subsidiaries has received any written notice from any Major Customer to the effect that such
Major Customer will stop or materially reduce its purchases from the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Except as set forth on Section 2.20 of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, since December 31, 2004, to
the Knowledge of the Company none of the Company and the Subsidiaries has received any notice from
any of the Company s and its Subsidiaries  ten (10) largest suppliers (by volume in dollars of
purchases from such suppliers)(the  Major Suppliers ) to the effect that such Major Supplier will
stop or materially reduce the aggregate volume of its supply of materials, products or services to
the Company and the Subsidiaries;  provided ,  however , that the Company and its Subsidiaries
ceased being supplied polyethylene by Dupont in approximately 1994.

SECTION 2.21  Indebtedness . There is no outstanding indebtedness for borrowed
money of the Company or its Subsidiaries.

SECTION 2.22  Affiliate Transactions . Except as disclosed in Section 2.22 of the
Company Disclosure Schedule, no Seller, and no director, executive officer or employee of the
Company or the Subsidiaries (or, to the Knowledge of the Company, any of the members of the
immediate family (including spouse, brother, sister, descendant, ancestor or in-law) or Affiliates
of the aforementioned) is currently a party to any contract or transaction with the Company or any
Subsidiary, or has any interest in any property, whether real, personal or mixed, or tangible or
intangible, used in or necessary to the business of the Company and the Subsidiaries. Without
limiting the foregoing, except as disclosed in Section 2.22 of the Company Disclosure Schedule, no
Seller, and no director, executive officer or employee of the Company or the Subsidiaries (or, to
the Knowledge of the Company, any of the relatives or Affiliates of the aforementioned) is a
director, executive officer or employee of any customer or supplier of the Company or any
Subsidiary.

SECTION 2.23  Accounts Receivable . All notes and accounts receivable of the Company
and its Subsidiaries are reflected properly on the books and records of the Company and its
Subsidiaries, are valid receivables subject to no setoffs or counterclaims, are current and
collectible, and will be collected in accordance with their terms at their recorded amounts,
subject only to the reserve for bad debts set forth on the balance sheets of the Company Financial
Statements as adjusted for the passage of time through the Closing Date in the Ordinary Course of
Business. Except as set forth in Section 2.23 of the Company Disclosure Schedule, no Person has any
Lien on any Accounts Receivable or any part thereof, and no agreement for deduction, free goods or
services, discount or other deferred price or quantity adjustment has been made by the Company or
any Subsidiary or requested by any customer with respect to any notes or accounts receivable other
than in the Ordinary Course of Business.

SECTION 2.24  Product Liability . To the Knowledge of the Company, neither the
Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has any material liability not covered by insurance or an
insurance fund arising out of any injury to individuals as a result of the

23

use of any product manufactured, sold or delivered by the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries.

SECTION 2.25  Inventory . The inventory of polyethylene (including in its blended
form) of the Company and its Subsidiaries currently consists of at least 49,505 pounds of
polyethylene, and since October 26, 2000 such inventory has remained fit for the purpose for which
it was procured for use in the Company s and its Subsidiaries  manufacturing processes.

SECTION 2.26  ENIC Fund 

In the event of a termination, dissolution or liquidation of, or a distribution or dividend
from, the ENIC Fund (a Vermont captive insurance company formed in 1994 for the purpose of
providing product liability coverage for the Company and its Subsidiaries s product), the Company
or its Subsidiaries is entitled to receive 25% of any such dividend or distribution or proceeds
from such dissolution or liquidation, if any (the   ENIC Fund Representation  )

SECTION 2.27  Disclaimer of Warranties . EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS
ARTICLE II, THE COMPANY AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES DO NOT MAKE AND HAVE NOT MADE ANY REPRESENTATIONS
OR WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, RELATING TO ITS AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES  BUSINESS,
INCLUDING ANY REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE FUTURE SALES OR PROFITABILITY OF THE
BUSINESS, OR REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES ARISING BY STATUTE OR OTHERWISE IN LAW, FROM A COURSE
OF DEALING OR USAGE OF TRADE. ALL SUCH OTHER REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES ARE HEREBY EXPRESSLY
DISCLAIMED BY THE COMPANY.

ARTICLE III

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE SELLERS

In order to induce the Buyer to
enter into this Agreement, each Seller severally (as to himself, herself or itself and not as to
any other Seller) represents and warrants to Buyer as follows:

SECTION 3.1  Authority and Related Matters . Such Seller has all requisite power
to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder. With respect to any
Seller that is a corporation, limited liability company or a partnership, the execution and
delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby by such
Seller have been duly and validly authorized by the Board of Directors or other governing body of
such Seller and no other corporate or similar proceedings on the part of such Seller and, as the
case may be, its board of directors or other governing body, its Equityholders or partners or other
governing individuals are necessary therefore. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
by such Seller, and constitutes, assuming the due execution hereof by each of the Company,

24

FWH, Buyer and the other Sellers, a valid and binding obligation of such Seller, enforceable
against such Seller in accordance with its terms, except that such enforcement may be subject to or
limited by (i) the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and
similar laws relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally and (ii) the effect of
general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at
law or in equity). With respect to any Seller that is a corporation, limited liability company or
partnership, such Seller, to the extent applicable, is duly organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the laws of its state of organization.

SECTION 3.2  Unit Ownership . Except as set forth in Section 3.2 of the Sellers
Disclosure Schedule attached hereto (such Schedule reflecting ownership after the Restructuring),
such Seller is the record and beneficial owner of the aggregate number of Units or UARs of the
Company or FWH, as the case may be, listed opposite its respective name in Section 3.2 of the
Sellers Disclosure Schedule. Except for this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby,
and except as disclosed in Section 2.2 of the Company Disclosure Schedule, there are no agreements,
arrangements, warrants, options, puts, calls, rights, contracts, equities, claims, demands,
purchase or other rights or other commitments or understandings of any character to which such
Seller is a party or by which any of his, her or its respective assets is bound and relating to the
issuance, sale, purchase, redemption, conversion, exchange, registration, voting or transfer of any
Equity Securities of the Company or FWH or other securities convertible into Equity Securities of
the Company or FWH.

SECTION
3.3  Consents and Approvals; No Violations .

(a) Neither the execution and delivery by such Seller of this
Agreement nor the performance by such Seller of its obligations hereunder will (i)
conflict with or result in any breach of any provision of any certificate of incorporation,
operating agreement, bylaws, trust agreement, partnership agreement, certificate of
partnership or other constituent documents of such Seller that is an entity; (ii) result in the
creation or imposition of any Encumbrance upon any of such Seller s Units; or (iii)
materially violate any order, injunction, decree, statute, rule or regulation of any
Governmental Authority to which such Seller is subject.

(b) Except as set forth in Section 2.4(b) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule or Section 3.3(b) of the Sellers Disclosure Schedule, no filing or registration
with, notification to, or authorization, consent or approval of any Governmental
Authority is required in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement by
such Seller or the performance by such Seller of its obligations hereunder, except (i)
compliance with any applicable requirements of the HSR Act or any other competition or
antitrust law in relevant jurisdictions; or (ii) those that become applicable as a result of
matters specifically related to Buyer or its Affiliates.

SECTION 3.4  Certain Fees . Except for Lehman Brothers, (i) such Seller has not
employed any financial advisor or finder and (ii) such Seller has not incurred any

25

liability for any financial advisor or finders  fees or similar compensation in connection
with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.

SECTION 3.5  Legal Proceedings . As of the date of this Agreement, there are no suits,
actions, claims, proceedings, or investigations pending against any Seller which, if adversely
determined, would have a material adverse effect on the ability of such Seller to consummate the
transactions contemplated hereby.

SECTION 3.6  Disclaimer of Warranties . EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS
ARTICLE III., THE SELLERS DO NOT MAKE AND HAVE NOT MADE ANY REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES
WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, RELATING TO THE COMPANY S AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES  BUSINESS, INCLUDING
ANY REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE FUTURE SALES OR PROFITABILITY OF THE BUSINESS, OR
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES ARISING BY STATUTE OR OTHERWISE IN LAW, FROM A COURSE OF DEALING OR
USAGE OF TRADE. ALL SUCH OTHER REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES ARE HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED BY
THE SELLERS.

ARTICLE IV

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE BUYER

In order to induce the Company and each of the Sellers to enter into this Agreement, the Buyer
hereby represents and warrants to the Company and Sellers as follows:

SECTION 4.1  Corporate Organization and Authority .

(a) Buyer is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.

(b) Buyer has the requisite power and authority to execute and deliver
this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder. The execution and delivery of
this Agreement and the performance of its obligations hereunder have been duly and
validly authorized by the board of directors of Buyer and no other corporate proceedings
on the part of Buyer are necessary to authorize the execution, delivery and performance
of this Agreement. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Buyer and
constitutes, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement by the
Company, FWH and the Sellers, a valid and binding obligation of Buyer, enforceable
against Buyer in accordance with its terms, except that such enforcement may be subject
to or limited by (i) the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,
moratorium and similar laws relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally and
(ii) the effect of general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is
considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).

SECTION
4.2  Consents and Approvals; No Violations . 

26

(a) Except as set forth in Section 4.2(a) of the disclosure schedule of
the Buyer (the   Buyer Disclosure Schedule  ), neither the execution and delivery of this
Agreement nor the performance by Buyer of its obligations hereunder will (i) conflict
with or result in any breach of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws
(or similar organizational documents) of Buyer or any of its Subsidiaries; (ii) result in a
violation or breach of, or default (or give rise to any right of termination, cancellation or
acceleration) or result in the creation of any Encumbrance under any of the terms,
conditions or provisions of any note, mortgage, letter of credit, other evidence of
indebtedness, guarantee, license, lease or agreement or similar instrument or obligation
relating to the business of Buyer or to which Buyer or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or
by which Buyer or any of its Subsidiaries or any of the assets used or held for use by
Buyer or any of its Subsidiaries may be bound; or (iii) assuming that the filings,
registrations, notifications, authorizations, consents and approvals referred to in
subsection (b) below have been obtained or made, as the case may be, violate any order,
injunction, decree, statute, rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority to which
Buyer is subject, excluding from the foregoing clauses (ii) and (iii) such defaults,
breaches or violations that would not individually, or in the aggregate, reasonably be
expected to materially impact the ability of Buyer to perform its obligations under, and to
consummate the transactions contemplated by, this Agreement.

(b) No filing or registration with, notification to, or authorization,
consent or approval of, any Governmental Authority is required in connection with the
execution and delivery of this Agreement by Buyer or the performance by Buyer of its
obligations hereunder, except (i) compliance with any applicable requirements of the
HSR Act or any other competition or antitrust law in relevant jurisdictions and (ii) such
other consents, approvals, orders, authorizations, notifications, registrations, declarations
and filings the failure of which to be obtained or made would not reasonably be expected
to materially impact the ability of Buyer to perform its obligations under, and to
consummate the transactions contemplated by, this Agreement.

SECTION
4.3  Legal Proceedings, etc . Except as set forth in Section 4.3 of the
Buyer Disclosure Schedule, as of the date of this Agreement, there are no suits, actions, claims,
proceedings or investigations pending, or, to the knowledge of Buyer, threatened against or
involving Buyer or any of its Subsidiaries (or any of their respective officers or directors in
connection with the business or affairs of Buyer and its Subsidiaries) before any court, arbitrator
or administrative or governmental body, United States or foreign which, if adversely determined,
would reasonably be expected to materially impact the ability of Buyer to perform its obligations
under, and to consummate the transactions contemplated by, this Agreement. As of the date of this
Agreement, there are no such suits, actions, claims, proceedings or investigations pending or, to
the knowledge of Buyer, threatened challenging the validity or propriety of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement. Neither Buyer nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to any
judgment, decree, injunction or orders of any court, which would reasonably be expected to
materially impact the ability of Buyer to perform its obligations under, and to consummate the
transactions contemplated by, this Agreement.

27

SECTION 4.4  Certain Fees . Except as set forth in Section 4.4 of the Buyer
Disclosure Schedule, (i) the Buyer has not employed any financial advisor or finder and (ii) the
Buyer has not incurred any liability for any financial advisory or finders  fees or similar
compensation in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.

SECTION 4.5  Acquisition of Units for Investment . The Buyer has such knowledge
and experience in financial and business matters that it is capable of evaluating the merits and
risks of its purchase of the Units. Buyer confirms that the Company and the Sellers have made
available to Buyer the opportunity to ask questions of the officers and management employees of the
Company and its Subsidiaries and to acquire additional information about the business and financial
condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries. The Buyer is acquiring the Units for investment and
not with a view toward or for sale in connection with any distribution thereof, or with any present
intention of distributing or selling the Units. The Buyer agrees that the Units may not be sold,
transferred, offered for sale, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of without registration
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any applicable state securities laws, except
pursuant to an exemption from such registration available under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, or any applicable state securities laws.

SECTION 4.6  Financing . Buyer currently has and as of the Closing will have all
funds necessary to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the
payment at Closing of the Purchase Price and the payment of all expenses incurred by Buyer in
connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

SECTION 4.7  Investigation by Buyer; Sellers  Liability . Buyer has conducted its
own independent review and analysis of the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of
operations, financial condition, software, technology and prospects of the Company and its
Subsidiaries and acknowledges that Buyer has been provided access to the personnel, properties,
premises and records of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such purpose. In entering into this
Agreement, Buyer has relied solely upon its own investigation and analysis and the representations
and warranties made by the Company and Sellers hereby, and Buyer acknowledges that none of the
Sellers, the Company, the Subsidiaries or any of their respective directors, officers, managers,
Equityholders, employees, Affiliates, controlling Persons, agents, advisors or Representatives
makes or has made any representation or warranty, either express or implied, as to the accuracy of
completeness of any of the information provided or made available to Buyer or its directors,
officers, managers, employees, Affiliates, controlling Persons, agents, advisors or
Representatives, other than pursuant to the representations and warranties set forth in Article II
or Article III of this Agreement, respectively, but always subject to the limitations and
restrictions contained herein.

SECTION 4.8  Truth of Sellers  and Company Representations and
Warranties .

Neither Buyer nor Barr are aware of any breach by the Company or Sellers of any representation
or warranty contained in Article II or III of this Agreement.

28

ARTICLE V

COVENANTS

SECTION 5.1  Conduct of the Business . The Company agrees that, during the period
from the date hereof until the earlier of the Closing or the termination of this Agreement, except
as (i) otherwise expressly contemplated hereby; (ii) set forth in Section 5.1 of the Company
Disclosure Schedule; (iii) consented to by Buyer in writing, which request for consent will be
considered by Buyer in good faith; or (iv) required by the Restructuring Agreement, the Company
shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries, to:

(a) (i) cause its business operations to be conducted in the ordinary
course and in compliance with all Laws and Orders and (ii) use its commercially
reasonable efforts to preserve intact its assets, properties, business organization in all
material respects;

(b) not amend its certificate of formation, operating agreement or other
organizational documents;

(c) not issue, deliver, sell, pledge, dispose of or encumber, or
authorize or commit to the issuance, sale, pledge, disposition or encumbrance of any
Equity Securities of any class (except upon the exercise of UARs or Options outstanding
on the date hereof) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or any options, warrants,
convertible securities or other rights of any kind to acquire any Equity Securities of, or
any other ownership interest in, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;

(d) not declare, set aside, make or pay any dividend or other
distribution, payable in cash, Equity Securities, property or otherwise, with respect to any of its
member interests or any security or right exchangeable or exercisable for, or convertible into, its
Equity Securities;

(e) not reclassify, combine, split, subdivide or redeem, purchase or
otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any of its Equity Securities, or any security or
right exchangeable or exercisable for, or convertible into, its Equity Securities;

(f) not (i) incur any Indebtedness for (except for short term
indebtedness incurred in the Ordinary Course of Business); (ii) make any capital
expenditures in excess of $100,000; (iii) sell or dispose of any of its properties or assets
having a value individually or in the aggregate in excess of $100,000 other than for fair
consideration in the Ordinary Course of Business; (iv) make any loans, advances or
capital contributions to, or investments in, any other Person on behalf of the Company or
any of its Subsidiaries; or (v) make any change in any of the present accounting methods
and practices of its business, except as required by changes in GAAP;

(g) other than in the Ordinary Course of Business and only after
consulting with Buyer, not enter into any Material Contracts or License Agreements,
provided that without the prior written consent of Buyer, the Company will not enter into

29

any such Contract or Agreement which provides for annual payments in excess of $500,000 or
provides for performance more than one year after the date of such Contract or Agreement;

(h) not amend or terminate any Material Contracts or License Agreements;

(i) not modify or amend the employment arrangements with its senior executive officers,
except (i) for the payment of annual bonuses and increases in compensation in the Ordinary Course
of Business or (ii) in connection with the promotion, relocation or termination of such executive
officers in the Ordinary Course of Business, enter into or amend any employment, severance,
termination or other similar agreement (except in connection with the hiring of any new employee
earning less than $100,000 per year), adopt any new or amend any existing employee benefit plan,
program, agreement or arrangement (except as may be required by applicable law or as necessary or
advisable to comply with Section 409 A of the Code), or make any loans to any of its officers,
directors, employees, agents or consultants;

(j) not impose any Encumbrances (other than Permitted Encumbrances) upon
any of its assets, tangible or intangible;

(k) not delay or postpone the payment of accounts payable and other liabilities outside
the Ordinary Course of Business;

(l) not cancel, compromise, waive, or release any right or claim (or series of related
rights and claims);

(m) not transfer, assign, or grant any license or sublicense of any rights under or with
respect to any Company Intellectual Property;

(n) not take any action, or not fail to take any action that could reasonably be
expected to result in the loss, lapse, abandonment, invalidity or enforceability of any
Company Intellectual Property;

(o) not enter into any transaction with any Affiliate of the Company, its Subsidiaries
or the Equityholders;

(p) not discharge a material liability or Encumbrance outside the Ordinary Course
of Business;

(q) not disclose any Confidential Information outside the Ordinary Course of Business;

(r) to the extent that such action would affect the Taxes of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries after Closing, not make or change any material election, change an annual accounting
period, adopt or change any accounting method, file any material amended Tax Return, enter into any
material closing agreement, settle any material Tax claim or assessment of Taxes, consent to any
extension or waiver of the

30

limitation period applicable to any material Tax claim or assessment relating to the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries; and

(s) not agree, commit, or adopt any plan or proposal to take any of the actions set
forth in clauses (b) through (q) above.

SECTION 5.2  Access to Information; Confidentiality .

(a) Upon reasonable advance notice, between the date hereof and the
earlier of the Closing or the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms,
the Company and its Subsidiaries shall give Buyer, its and its Subsidiaries  counsel,
financial advisors, financing sources, auditors and other authorized representatives
(collectively,   Representatives  ) reasonable access during normal business hours and
after providing the Sellers reasonable advance notice to (i) the offices, properties, books
and records of the Company and its Subsidiaries and (ii) the officers, facilities, and
personnel of the Company and its Subsidiaries; and the Company will cooperate with
Buyer in requesting, and use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause, it s attorneys
and accountants to provide Buyer with reasonable access during normal business hours to
any information in their possession concerning the Company.

(b) Buyer will treat and hold any information and materials it receives
in the course of the reviews contemplated by Section 5.2(a) in accordance with the
confidentiality agreement between Buyer and the Company, dated July 14, 2005 (the
  Confidentiality Agreement  ). Upon consummation of the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement, the Confidentiality Agreement shall automatically terminate and have no
more force or effect.

(c) In consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and
except to the extent necessary to enforce any rights under this Agreement, each of the
Equityholders agrees that such Equityholder will not, at any time, directly or indirectly
disclose to any unauthorized Person prior to the Closing or any Person after the Closing
or use for his, her or its own account any Confidential Information or any information
which in faith and good conscience ought to be treated as Confidential Information, or
permit any Person to examine and/or make copies of any documents which contain or are
derived from Confidential Information, whether prepared by the Equityholder or
otherwise coming into the Equityholder s possession or control without the prior written
permission of Buyer; except as required by law or court order or as directed by Buyer,
and unless and to the extent that the aforementioned matters become generally known to
and available for use by the public other than as a result of such Equityholder s acts or
omissions to act. Each of the Equityholders further agrees to use his, her or its
commercially reasonable efforts and diligence to safeguard the Confidential Information
and to protect it against disclosure, misuse, espionage, loss or theft;  provided  that
there shall be no indemnification for any breach of this provision by an Equityholder that
remains an employee of the Company or its Subsidiaries after Closing.

SECTION 5.3  Director and Officer Indemnification .

31

(a) If the Closing occurs, Buyer agrees that all rights to
indemnification and all limitations on liability existing in favor of any Company
Indemnitee (as defined below) as provided in the certificate of formation or operating
agreement of the Company or of any of its Subsidiaries shall survive the consummation
of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and continue in full force and effect
and be honored after the Closing by the Company and its Subsidiaries. Buyer shall not,
nor shall it cause or permit, any of the provisions relating to the indemnification of
officers and directors in the certificate of formation or operating agreement of the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries, as appropriate, to be amended, repealed or otherwise
modified for a period of six years after the Closing in a manner that would adversely
affect in any material respect the rights thereunder of individuals who at any time prior to
the Closing were directors or officers of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries
(collectively, the   Company Indemnitees  ) in respect of actions or omissions occurring at
or prior to the Closing.

(b) The Company shall extend the existing director and officer
insurance policy, on substantially its current terms, through the Closing, and shall
purchase a six year director and officer tail policy providing substantially the same
coverage (the   D O Tail Policy  ).

SECTION 5.4  Reasonable Best Efforts .

(a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions provided herein,
except as otherwise provided in Section 5.5, each of the parties hereto agrees to use its
reasonable best efforts to take or cause to be taken all action, to do or cause to be done,
and to assist and cooperate with any party hereto in doing all things necessary, proper or
advisable under applicable laws and regulations to consummate and make effective, in
the most expeditious manner practicable, the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, including, but not limited to, (i) the satisfaction of the conditions precedent to
the obligations of any of the parties hereto; (ii) the obtaining of consents, waivers or
approvals of third parties; (iii) the defending of any lawsuits or other legal proceedings,
whether judicial or administrative, challenging this Agreement or the performance of the
obligations hereunder; and (iv) the execution and delivery of such instruments, and the
taking of such other actions as the other party hereto may reasonably require in order to
carry out the intent of this Agreement.

(b) In the event that The Population Council, Inc. (the   Population
Council  ) requests that a guarantee of the obligations under the Asset Purchase
Agreement, dated as of November 18,2002, by and among the Population Council and
FWH (as amended January 3, 2003 and March 31, 2005) (the   Population Council
Agreement  ) be made by Buyer, or another appropriate affiliate of Barr, Buyer or such
affiliate consent to provide such guarantee of the obligations under the Population
Council Agreement.

SECTION 5.5  Governmental Authorizations; Consents . 

32

(a) The Company, FWH and Sellers  Representatives, on the one hand,
and Buyer, on the other hand, shall promptly file all necessary registrations and filings,
including, but not limited to, filings under the HSR Act or any other competition or
antitrust law in relevant jurisdictions and submissions of additional information requested
by any Governmental Authority;  provided  that the Company, FWH, the Sellers 
Representatives and the Buyer agree to take reasonable best efforts to cause the filing
under the HSR Act to occur not later than five (5) Business Days following the execution
of this Agreement. Each of Buyer, the Company, FWH and Sellers  Representatives
further agrees that it will, and will cause its Affiliates to, comply with any applicable
post-Closing notification or requirements of any antitrust, trade competition, investment
or control reporting or similar law or regulation or any Governmental Authority with
competent jurisdiction. Each of Buyer, the Company, FWH and Sellers  Representatives
agrees to cooperate with and promptly to consult with, to provide any reasonably
available information with respect to, and to provide, subject to appropriate
confidentiality provisions, copies of all presentations and filings to any Governmental
Authority to, the Company, FWH, Sellers  Representatives or Buyer, as the case may be,
or the counsel of the Company, FWH, Sellers  Representatives or Buyer, as the case may
be. Each of Buyer, the Company, FWH and Sellers  Representatives shall promptly
inform one another of any oral communication with, and provide copies of written
communications with, any Governmental Authority regarding any such filings or any
such transaction. Neither Buyer, the Company, FWH nor the Sellers  Representatives
shall independently participate in any formal meeting with any Governmental Authority
in respect of any such filings, investigation, or other inquiry without giving Buyer, the
Company, FWH and Sellers  Representatives, as the case may be, prior notice of the
meeting and, to the extent permitted by such Governmental Authority, the opportunity to
attend and/or participate.

(b) In addition to the agreements set forth in Section 5.5(a) above, the
Company, FWH and Buyer shall each use their reasonable best efforts to ensure that the
consents, approvals, waivers or other authorizations from Governmental Authorities,
including without limitation antitrust clearance under the HSR Act, are obtained as
promptly as practicable and that any conditions set forth in or established by any such
Governmental Authorities are wholly satisfied. In fulfillment of this covenant, the
Company and Buyer each agrees, among other steps or actions and without limiting the
scope of Buyer s and the Company s obligations, to:

(i) take reasonable best efforts to satisfy any additional conditions
imposed by Governmental Authorities with respect to the acquisition of the Company;
and

(ii) oppose, in good faith, any litigation relating to this Agreement or
the transactions contemplated hereby, including, if reasonably requested by the other
party hereto, to commence or threaten to commence and to pursue litigation reasonably
believed by the other party hereto to be helpful in obtaining authorization from
Governmental Authorities or in terminating any outstanding proceedings.

33

SECTION 5.6  Public Announcements . No press release or announcement concerning the
transactions contemplated hereby shall be issued by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries,
Sellers  Representatives, the Buyer or any Seller without the prior consent of the Buyer, the
Sellers  Representatives and the Company, except as such press release or announcement may be
required by law, rule or regulation, in which case the party required to issue the release or
announcement shall allow Buyer, Sellers  Representatives and the Company reasonable time to comment
on such release or announcement in advance of the issuance of such release or announcement. To the
extent that any press release or announcement is issued after gaining the necessary consent
described in this Section 5.6 (a   Public Announcement  ), any additional press release or
announcements shall not require additional consent to the extent that press release or
announcements are consistent with any Public Announcement.

SECTION 5.7  Employee Matters .

(a) Each individual who is employed by the Company or any
Subsidiary shall be listed in Section 5.7 of the Company Disclosure Schedule and shall
remain an employee of the Company or such Subsidiary following the Closing Date
(each such employee, an   Affected Employee    provided , however, that this Section 5.7
shall not be construed to limit the ability of the applicable employer to terminate the
employment of any Affected Employee following the Closing Date in accordance with
applicable law,  provided further  that this Section 5.7 shall not be construed to
require that any employee or group of employees located in California shall remain as an employee of
the Company or its Subsidiaries as of or following the Closing.

(b) Buyer shall, or shall cause the Company or the applicable
Subsidiary of the Company to, give Affected Employees full credit for purposes of
eligibility, vesting, benefit accrual and determination of the level of benefits under any
employee benefit plans or arrangements (other than equity based plans) maintained by
Buyer, the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company for such Affected Employees 
service with, or recognized by, the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company to the
same extent recognized by the Company or such Subsidiary immediately prior to the
Closing Date.

(c) Buyer shall, or shall cause the Company or the applicable
Subsidiary of the Company to, (i) waive all limitations as to preexisting conditions,
exclusions and waiting periods with respect to participation and coverage requirements
applicable to the Affected Employees under any welfare benefit plans that such
employees may be eligible to participate in after the Closing Date, other than limitations
or waiting periods that are already in effect with respect to such employees and that have
not been satisfied as of the Closing Date under any welfare plan maintained for the
Affected Employees immediately prior to the Closing Date and as if the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement had not taken place and (ii) provide each Affected
Employee with credit for any co-payments and deductibles paid prior to the Closing Date
in satisfying any applicable deductible or out-of-pocket requirements under any welfare
plans that such employees are eligible to participate in after the Closing Date in the plan
year in which the Closing Date occurs.

34

(d) In the event that the Closing Date occurs prior to payment of all
annual bonuses in respect of the 2005 fiscal year, Buyer agrees that it shall cause the
Company (or the applicable Subsidiary of the Company, as the case may be) to pay any
unpaid annual bonuses to the Affected Employees in respect of the 2005 fiscal year of the
Company in accordance with the amounts that have been accrued on the Final Statement.
Such payments shall be made at the time which is consistent with the past practice of the
Company or the applicable Subsidiary of the Company, as the case may be.

(e) Buyer shall, or shall cause the Company or the applicable
Subsidiary of the Company, as the case maybe, to, provide severance benefits to such
Affected Employees set forth in Section 5.7(e) of the Company Disclosure Schedule in
accordance with the terms of each such Affected Employee s employment contract. On
and after the Closing Date, the Company or the applicable Subsidiary of the Company
shall provide severance to other Affected Employees on a basis that is no less favorable
than such policies as are applied to Buyer s similarly situated employees, which Sellers
acknowledge may be on a case-by-case basis pursuant to such policies, if any, as may be
established by Buyer.

(f) As of the Closing Date, Buyer shall assume and agree to perform,
or cause the Company or the applicable Subsidiary of the Company to perform, in
accordance with their terms, all employment, severance, retention and other
compensation agreements and arrangements (the   Employee Agreements  ) then existing
between the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company with any director, officer or
employee thereof.

(g) The Company, Buyer and Sellers acknowledge and agree that the
compensation deductions accruing as a result of the payments contemplated by this
Agreement to the EAR holders and UAR holders shall belong to the Company and shall
be for the benefit of Sellers. Neither Buyer or Sellers shall take, nor allow any other
Person to take, a tax reporting position on any Tax Return or claim that is inconsistent
with this Section 5.7(g) unless otherwise required pursuant to the final determination of a
Governmental Authority. Nothing in this Section 5.7(g) shall preclude Buyer from
treating the amounts of such payments to the EAR holders and UAR holders as amounts
included in the Purchase Price.

(h) The provisions of this Section 5.7 are for the sole benefit of the parties hereto
and their permitted successors and assigns, and nothing herein, express or implied, shall give or
be construed to give any Person, other than the parties hereto, and such permitted successors and
assigns, any legal or equitable rights under this Section 5.7.

(i) Prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall adopt, by action of its Board of
Directors, a resolution providing that the 401(k) retirement plans maintained by the Company (the
  40 l (k) Plans  ) shall be terminated, effective as of immediately prior to the Closing,
conditioned on the occurrence of the Closing. Buyer agrees that, following the Closing, it shall be
responsible for (i) taking all administrative actions which are necessary and proper to wind up the
operations of the 401(k) Plans, including,

35

without limitation, providing all required notices the Internal Revenue Service, other Governmental
Authorities, participants and vendors; submitting a termination request for favorable determination
regarding the qualification of the 401(k) Plans with the Internal Revenue Service; and making all
distributions under the 401(k) Plans in accordance with law and participant instructions, and (ii)
the payment of all expenses associated therewith. Buyer agrees that it shall cause the 401(k)
retirement plan maintained by Buyer to accept the rollover of participant accounts distributed from
the 401(k) Plans. Buyer further agrees that the Affected Employees shall be enrolled in the 401(k)
retirement plan maintained by Buyer as soon as practicable following the Closing Date, but in no
event later than January 1, 2006.

SECTION 5.8  Tax Matters .

(a)  Tax Indemnity . Each Seller shall pay, and shall, severally but not
jointly (except that Tinicum shall be jointly and severally liable for the Persons on
Schedule II-A hereto and Craig Capital shall be jointly and severally liable for the
Persons on Schedule II-B hereto), indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Buyer, the
Company and each of its Subsidiaries from and against (without duplication), any Taxes,
but only if and to the extent such Taxes exceed the amount of Taxes included in the
Company September 30 Balance Sheet and were included in the calculation of Working
Capital reflected in the Closing Statement, or other Adverse Consequence attributable to
(i) all Taxes (or the non-payment thereof) of the Company and its Subsidiaries for all
taxable periods ending on or before the Closing Date and the portion through the end of
the Closing Date of any taxable period that includes (but does not end on) the Closing
Date (the   Pre-Closing Tax Period  ), (ii) all Taxes of any member of an affiliated,
consolidated, combined or unitary group of which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries
(or any predecessor of the foregoing) is or was a member on or prior to the Closing Date,
including pursuant to Treasury Regulation 1.1502-6 or any analogous or similar state,
local or non-United States law or regulation, (iii) any Taxes of the Company or its
Subsidiaries arising as a result of the Restructuring, and (iv) any and all Taxes of any
person (other than the Company and its Subsidiaries) imposed on the Company or any of
its Subsidiaries as a transferee or successor, by contract or pursuant to any law, rule or
regulation, which Taxes relate to an event or transaction occurring on or before the
Closing Date.

(b)  Straddle Period . In the case of any taxable period that includes
(but does not end on) the Closing Date (a   Straddle Period  ), the amount of any Taxes
based on or measured by income or receipts of the Company and its Subsidiaries or
attributable to specific transactions for the Pre-Closing Tax Period shall be determined on
an interim closing of the books as of the close of business on the Closing Date and the
amount of other Taxes of the Company and its Subsidiaries for a Straddle Period that
relates to the Pre-Closing Tax Period shall be deemed to be the amount of such Tax for
the entire taxable period multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of
days in the taxable period ending on and including the Closing Date and the denominator
of which is the number of days in such Straddle Period.

36

(c)  Transfer Taxes . All transfer, documentary, sales, use, stamp, registration
and other such Taxes and fees (including any penalties and interest) incurred in connection with
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement ( Transfer Taxes ) shall be paid one half by the
Buyer and one half by Sellers when due, and the Buyer and       Sellers, as applicable, will, at
its own expense prepare and file all necessary Tax Returns       and other documentation with
respect to all such Transfer Taxes and, if required by       applicable law, the Sellers who hold
any Units will, and will cause their Affiliates to, join       in the execution of any such Tax
Returns and other documentation.

(d)  FIRPTA Certificate . On or prior to the Closing, each Seller who holds any Units
will furnish Buyer an affidavit certifying as to such Seller s non-foreign       status in
accordance with the requirements of Section 1.1445-2(b) of the Treasury       Regulations.

(e)  Cooperation . Buyer and Sellers  shall cooperate fully, as and to the       extent
reasonably requested by the other party, in connection with the filing of any Tax       Returns and
any audit, litigation or other proceeding with respect to Taxes of or related to       the Company
or any of its Subsidiaries. Such cooperation shall include the retention and       (upon the other
party s reasonable request) the provision of records and information       reasonably relevant to
any such Tax Return, audit, litigation or other proceeding and       making employees reasonably
available on a mutually convenient basis to provide       additional information and explanation of
any material provided hereunder. Each of       Sellers and Buyer agrees to (i) retain or cause to
be retained all books and records in its       possession on the Closing Date relating to Tax
matters of or pertaining to the Company       or any of its Subsidiaries for any taxable period
beginning before the Closing Date until       expiration of the statute of limitations (including
any extensions thereof) of the respective       taxable periods, and to abide by all record
retention agreements entered into with any       Taxing authority and (ii) give each other party
reasonable written notice prior to       transferring, destroying or discarding any such books and
records and, if the other party       so requests, allow the requesting party to take possession of
such books and records.

(f)  Tax Allocation Agreements . The Company shall cause any Tax       sharing or
allocation agreement and/or any similar arrangement with respect to Taxes       involving the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries to be terminated effective as of the       Closing Date, such
that neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall have any       liability thereunder to
any Person after the Closing.

(g)  Asset Allocation .

(i) Buyer shall propose to Sellers  Representatives an allocation of the
Purchase Price and the Company liabilities (the   Consideration  ) to the assets of the
Company pursuant to Section 1060 of the Code within 90 days after the Closing Date
(the   Preliminary Allocation  ). Within ten (10) business days following the
receipt of the Preliminary Allocation, Sellers  Representatives shall have the right
to provide Buyer with a written notice objecting to the Preliminary Allocation, such
notice to contain an explanation of the reasons for Sellers 

37

Representatives  objections. Within five (5) business days following receipt of Sellers 
Representatives  objections, if any, to the Preliminary Allocation (the   Allocation
Resolution Period ),  Buyer and Sellers  Representatives shall negotiate in good faith
to resolve any differences regarding the Preliminary Allocation (as so resolved, the   Final
Allocation  ). If Sellers  Representatives do not object to the Preliminary Allocation
within the Allocation Resolution Period, the Preliminary Allocation shall be deemed to be
the Final Allocation for purposes of this Agreement. The parties agree that for purposes of
such Allocation the fair market value of the fixed assets of the Company and its
Subsidiaries shall not exceed $545,776 and the fair market value of the work-in-process
inventory of the Company and its Subsidiaries shall not exceed $10 million.

(ii) If Buyer and Sellers  Representatives are unable to resolve any differences
with regard to the Preliminary Allocation within the Allocation Resolution Period, then any
disputed matters shall be finally and conclusively determined in accordance with Section
1060 of the Code by the Independent Accounting Firm. Promptly, but not later than fifteen
(15) days after its acceptance of appointment hereunder, the Independent Accounting Firm
shall determine only those matters in dispute and shall render a written report as to the
disputed matters and the resulting allocation of the Consideration to the assets of the
Company, and such report of the Independent Accounting Firm shall be final, conclusive and
binding upon the parties hereto and deemed to be the Final Allocation. The Independent
Accounting Firm s fees and expenses shall be split equally between Buyer and Sellers.

(iii) Buyer and the Sellers shall (A) be bound by the Adjusted Final Allocation
(as defined in Section 5.8 (g)(iv) hereof) for all Tax purposes, (B) timely file all forms
and Tax Returns required to be filed in connection with the Adjusted Final Allocation
(including, to the extent required to be filed, IRS Form 8594 and any other forms or
reports required to be filed pursuant to Section 1060 of the Code or any comparable
provisions of United States local or state or foreign Law (the   Section 1060 Forms  )), (C)
prepare and file all Section 1060 Forms and Tax Returns in a manner consistent with the
Adjusted Final Allocation and (D) take no position inconsistent with the Adjusted Final
Allocation in any Section 1060 Form or Tax Return, any audit or examination by, or any
proceeding before, any taxing authority or otherwise, unless otherwise required by the
final determination of a taxing authority. In the event that the Adjusted Final Allocation
is disputed by any taxing authority, the party hereto receiving notice of such dispute
promptly shall notify and consult with the other parties hereto and keep such other parties
apprised of material developments concerning resolution of such dispute. Buyer shall
control any examination, investigation, audit or other proceeding resulting from such
dispute by any taxing authority regarding the Adjusted Final

38

Allocation;  provided  that Sellers  Representatives, on behalf of the Sellers, shall have
the nonexclusive right to participate in, but not to control, such examination, investigation,
audit or other proceeding at Sellers  Representatives, on behalf of the Sellers, sole cost and
expense.

The Final Allocation and any Section 1060 Forms shall be appropriately adjusted to take into
account any post closing payments among the parties hereto (the   Adjusted Final Allocation  ),
including, without limitation, any Purchase Price Increase or Purchase Price Decrease. All payments
made pursuant to this Agreement subsequent to the Closing Date shall be treated as adjustments to
the Purchase Price for all Tax purposes.

(h) Buyer, Sellers and the Company agree to use the alternate
procedure described in Internal Revenue Service Procedure 2004-53 with respect to wage reporting.

SECTION 5.9  Restructuring . The parties hereto agree that, prior to the Closing, the
Company and FWH shall effect the Restructuring, substantially in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit A.

SECTION 5.10  Sellers  Representatives  Agreement with Equityholders . Prior to the
Closing, each Equityholder shall enter into one or more contribution agreements (the
  Contribution Agreements )  with the Sellers  Representatives, for the benefit of all
Sellers, that will govern each EAR holder s and UAR holder s liability for or benefit from, as
applicable, any Purchase Price Increase, Purchase Price Decrease, payment from the Escrow Amount,
indemnification payments pursuant to Article IX hereof and fees pursuant to this Agreement.

SECTION 5.11  Exclusivity . Each Equityholder and the Company and its Subsidiaries
(and each of their respective owners, directors, officers, employees, advisors, Representatives,
agents or Affiliates) (the  Company Group ) shall not, directly or indirectly, (i) engage in,
solicit or initiate any discussions or negotiations with, or provide any information to (except to
confirm that this Agreement exists or as may be required by law or court order), or negotiate or
enter into any agreement or agreement in principle, whether written or oral, with, any other Person
with respect to a sale of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, the assets of the Company or any
of its Subsidiaries, the Equity Securities of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any similar
business combination transaction, except as permitted by Section 5.1, (the foregoing actions, each
a  Third Party Acquisition ) and (ii) provide any non-public financial or other confidential or
proprietary information regarding the Company or any Subsidiaries (including this Agreement and any
other materials containing Buyer s or its Affiliates  proposal and any other financial information,
projections or proposals regarding the Company) to any Person (other than Buyer or its
representatives and agents and any other Person Buyer designates), or take any other action to
facilitate any inquiries or the making of any proposal that constitute, or would reasonably be
expected to result in, a Third Party Acquisition. Each Equityholder and the Company agrees to (i)
immediately notify Buyer if it or any member of the Company Group receives after the date hereof

39

any indications of interest, requests for information or offers in respect of a proposal for a
Third Party Acquisition, (ii) communicate to Buyer in reasonable detail the terms of any such
indication, request or proposal (including the identity of such third party) and (iii) provide
Buyer with copies of all written communications related to any such indication, request or
proposal.

SECTION 5.12  Securities Purchase and Investor Rights Agreements. Management
Agreements . Prior to the Closing, the applicable Sellers and the Company shall cause to be
terminated effective as of the Closing the Securities Purchase and Investor Rights Agreement, dated
October 26, 2000, as amended, between the Company and the signatories thereto, the Management
Agreement by and among Tinicum Capital Partners, L.P. and FEI Products, Inc., dated October 26,
2000, and the Management Agreement by and among Craig Capital Corporation and FEI Products, Inc.,
dated October 26, 2000 and, pursuant to the Restructuring, the Securities Purchase and Investor
Rights Agreement, dated January 3, 2003, as amended, between FWH and the Signatories thereto.

SECTION 5.13  Update . Each party hereto will, not less than three (3) nor more than
five (5) business days prior to the Closing, disclose to the other in writing (in the case of the
Company and Sellers by delivering a supplement to or substitution for
a Disclosure Schedule) 
(a   Supplemental Disclosure  ) (x) any material inaccuracies in any of such party s
representations or warranties made in this Agreement which it becomes aware of and (y) any event,
matter or claim occurring, arising, failing to occur or arise, or being asserted by a third party
after the date hereof, the occurrence or failure to occur of which would cause any representation
or warranty made by such party in this Agreement or any Disclosure Schedule of such party to become
untrue or inaccurate in any material respect as of the Closing Date. Such delivery of a
Supplemental Disclosure shall not affect any rights of any party (i) to terminate for the other
party s failure to satisfy the conditions to Closing or (ii) for indemnification.

SECTION 5.14  Release . As a material inducement to Buyer to enter into this
Agreement, effective as of the Closing, each Equityholder, solely in the capacity as an
Equityholder and on behalf of each of their respective directors, officers and employees who have
served as a director, officer or employee of the Company or any of the Subsidiaries (the
  Releasors  ), each agree not to sue and fully release and discharge the Buyer, Company, the
Subsidiaries and their respective directors, officers, assigns and successors, past and present
(collectively, the   Releasees  ), with respect to and from any and all claims, demands, rights,
Liens, contracts, covenants, proceedings, causes of action, obligations, debts, and losses of
whatever kind or nature in law, equity or otherwise, whether now known or unknown, and whether or
not concealed or hidden, which any of the Releasors now owns or holds or has at any time owned or
held against any of the Releasees with respect to each Equityholder s UAR agreements, EAR
agreements or Units, as applicable (each, a   Released Claim    provided, however , that
nothing in this Section 5.13 will be deemed to constitute a release by the Equityholders of any
right to enforce its rights under this Agreement, the Contribution Agreements or the Escrow
Agreement and nothing in this Section 5.13 will be deemed to constitute a release by the Sellers of
any right to indemnification against Buyer pursuant to ARTICLE IX. It

40

is the intention of the Sellers that such release be effective as a bar to each and every claim,
demand and cause of action hereinabove specified. In furtherance of this intention, the
Equityholders hereby expressly waive, effective as of the Closing, any and all rights and benefits
conferred upon it or him by the Company s charter or bylaws or the provisions of applicable Law or
regulation (and any such right or benefit conferred upon any Releasors) (except those relating to
indemnification of directors and officers) and expressly consents that this release will be given
full force and effect according to each and all of its express terms and provisions, including
those related to unknown and unsuspected claims, demands and causes of action, if any, as those
relating to any other claims, demands and causes of action hereinabove specified, but only to the
extent such section is applicable to releases such as this.

SECTION 5.15  California Operations .

The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that Buyer intends to close the operation of the
business in California, it being understood that the failure of the Buyer to reach satisfactory
terms with the landlord under the California Lease or the California Employees shall not be a
condition to Closing. The Company agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to assist Buyer, at
Buyer s sole cost and expense, in (i) terminating the California Lease and obtaining a full release
of all tenant obligations under the California Lease, satisfactory in form and substance to Buyer,
from the other parties to such lease, and (ii) terminating existing employment arrangements (if
any) with the Company s employees located in the State of California (the  California Employees )
and negotiating employment and/or independent contractor arrangements between such employees and
the Buyer or an Affiliate of the Buyer. With respect to clause (ii) above, the Company shall
provide Buyer with reasonable access, during reasonable business hours and upon reasonable notice,
to the California Employees for purposes of determining the terms and conditions of the employment
or consulting arrangement to be offered to the California Employees, which will become effective as
of the Closing Date. Buyer agrees that it shall (x) notify the Company and the Sellers of its
determinations with respect to the California Employees and (y) cause the California Employees to
be provided with COBRA continuation coverage as required by applicable law, under either the group
health plan maintained by the Company or the group health plan maintained by Buyer, as the case may
be. The Company agrees to allow the Buyer to (i) participate in any discussions with the parties to
the California Lease relating to the termination of such lease and the grant of a release
thereunder, (ii) review and comment on any documents evidencing such termination and release, and
(iii) elect, at Buyer s sole discretion, to maintain the existing California Lease in lieu of such
termination.

SECTION 5.16  Certain Financial Matters .

(a) Buyer shall have the right to request Ernst   Young ( E Y ) to (i) prepare audited
combined consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2004 and the audited combined
consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Company for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2004, in each case on a pro forma basis as if the Restructuring had been completed and FHW had
been a Subsidiary of the Company on January 1, 2004 (such audited financial Statements, the
 Audited Financial

41

Statements ) and render an audit opinion on such statements and (ii) conduct an SAS 100 review of
the September Pro-Forma Consolidated Financial Statements, including a comparison of the September
Pro-Forma Consolidated Financial Statements to the combined consolidated balance sheets of the
Company as of September 30, 2004 and the combined consolidated statements of income and cash flows
of the Company for the nine month period then ended, in each case on a pro forma basis as if the
Restructuring had been completed and FHW had been a Subsidiary of the Company on January 1, 2004
(such reviewed financial statements, the  Reviewed Financial Statements ). Sellers and the Company
agree to reasonably cooperate in the conduct of such audit and Sellers and the Company shall use
commercially reasonable efforts to cause E Y to take such actions as Buyer may reasonably request
in connection with the audit. Sellers and the Company shall request E Y to complete such audit no
later than 45 days following the Closing Date, and Sellers and the Company shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to cause such audit to be completed within such time. All costs and expenses
associated with such audit, including but not limited to audit fees charged by E Y, but excluding
the cost of employees of the Company until Closing, shall be the Buyer s sole responsibility.
Notwithstanding the above, if the Closing occurs following December 31, 2005, then this section
shall be deemed amended to refer to  2005  in each place where  2004  is referenced.

(b) Sellers and the Company will reasonably cooperate with Buyer and       promptly provide
Buyer with all additional financial statements, financial information       and related
documentation reasonably requested by Buyer from time to time in order for       Buyer to comply
with the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and       the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended. Such cooperation will include       providing E Y access to financial
information for the business for purposes of       completing an audit or review of the period
beginning on January 1, 2005 and ending on       the Closing Date, and the provision of customary
representation letters regarding such       financial information as reasonably requested by E Y.
The Buyer shall bear all costs       and expenses associated with such cooperation.

(c) Sellers and the Company shall use commercially reasonable       efforts to cause E Y to
take such actions as Buyer may reasonably request in connection       with Buyer s compliance with
requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,       and the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, including, but not limited to: (i)       requesting E Y to prepare the
consolidated Reviewed Financial Statements and the       consolidated Audited Financial Statements
and related audit opinions and/or review       letters in a form meeting the requirements of
Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of       1933, as amended, (ii) requesting E Y to provide
Buyer with copies of draft audits and       the related work papers prior to the issuance of such
audits, (iii) requesting the consent of       E Y to the use of its report on the Company Financial
Statements, the Audited Financial       Statements and the Reviewed Financial Statements (iv)
requesting E Y to perform a       SAS 100 review of any other interim unaudited financial
statements, and (v) requesting       E Y to participate, at Buyer s request, in the preparation of
any registration statement,       prospectus or offering memorandum that includes, or incorporates
by reference, the       Company Financial Statements, the Reviewed Financial Statements or the
Audited

 42

Financial Statements. The Buyer shall bear all costs and expenses associated with E Y s actions set
forth in this Section.

(d) The Company agrees to permit its officers and employees to       provide such assistance
in connection with the preparation of the Audited Financial       Statements, the Reviewed
Financial Statements and the preparation of additional       financial statements, financial
information and related documentation reasonably       requested by Buyer, including allowing such
Persons to attend and participate in       meetings with E Y and other preparations for the same.
The Sellers who are officers       and directors agree that they will not unreasonably withhold
execution of customary       management representation letters required by E Y in connection with
the Reviewed       Financial Statements and the Audited Financial Statements.

(e) The parties hereto agree and acknowledge that the refusal or failure       of E Y to
perform any of the requested services or take any of the requested actions       referred to in
this Section 5.16 shall not be a condition to Closing or a basis for a claim       for
indemnification under this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI

CONDITIONS TO BUYER S OBLIGATION TO CLOSE

The Buyer s obligation to consummate the transactions contemplated herein shall be subject to
the satisfaction or written waiver by Buyer on or prior to the Closing Date, of each of the
following conditions:

SECTION 6.1  Representations and Warranties  Covenants .

(a) The representations and warranties of the Company, without       giving any effect to any
materiality qualifications therein, shall be true and correct in all       respects on and as of
the Closing Date as though made on and as of the Closing Date       (except for representations and
warranties made as of a specified date, which need be true       and correct only as of the
specified date) except (i) as otherwise contemplated by this       Agreement and (ii) for such
failures to be true and correct which in the aggregate would       not have a Material Adverse
Effect. The Company and its Subsidiaries shall have       performed in all material respects each
of its respective agreements and covenants       contained in or contemplated by this Agreement
that are required to be performed by it at       or prior to the Closing pursuant to the terms
hereof.

(b) The representations and warranties of the Sellers, without giving       effect to any
materiality qualifications therein, shall be true and correct in all respects on       and as of
the Closing Date as though made on and as of the Closing Date (except for       representations and
warranties made as of a specified date, which need be true and       correct only as of the
specified date), except (i) as otherwise contemplated by this       Agreement and (ii) for such
failures to be true and correct which in the aggregate would       not have a Material Adverse
Effect on the ability of the Sellers to consummate the       transactions contemplated hereby. Each
of the Sellers shall have performed in all

 43

material respects each of its respective agreements and covenants contained in or contemplated by
this Agreement that are required to be performed by it at or prior to the Closing pursuant to the
terms hereof.

SECTION
6.2  Filings; Consents  Waiting Periods . All registrations, filings,
applications, notices, consents, approvals, orders, qualifications and waivers set forth in Section
6.2 of the Company Disclosure Schedule shall have been filed, made or obtained and the Company
shall have delivered evidence satisfactory to Buyer evidencing same, and all waiting periods
applicable under the HSR Act and similar applicable foreign merger control laws shall have expired
or been terminated.

SECTION
6.3  No Injunction . At the Closing Date, there shall be no injunction,
restraining order or decree of any nature of any court or governmental agency or body of competent
jurisdiction that is in effect that, and there shall not have been filed, commenced or specifically
threatened in a bona fide manner any lawsuit or proceeding by a Governmental Authority that (i)
restrains or prohibits the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein, (ii) cause any of
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement to be rescinded following consummation or (iii)
could materially adversely effect the right of Buyer to own the Equity Securities and to operate
the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries.

SECTION 6.4  Other Deliveries . The items set forth in Section 1.2(b) shall have
been delivered to the Buyer by the Company and the Sellers  Representatives.

SECTION 6.5  Restructuring . The Restructuring shall have been completed pursuant to the
Restructuring Agreement, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, or in such other
form as reasonably acceptable to Buyer, and all documentation at the Restructuring shall have been
delivered to the Buyer.

SECTION 6.6  Opinion . The Company shall have delivered to the Buyer an opinion of Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher   Flom LLP, legal counsel to the Company, dated as of the Closing Date, and
addressed to the Buyer, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.

SECTION 6.7  Absence of Material Adverse Effect . Since December 31, 2004, there shall have been
no change, event or condition that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or could reasonably
be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

SECTION 6.8  Termination of Management Agreements and Securities Purchase and
Investor Rights Agreements .

The Management Agreement by and among Tinicum Capital Partners, L.P. and FEI Products, Inc.,
dated October 26, 2000, the Management Agreement by and among Craig Capital Corporation and FEI
Products, Inc., dated October 26, 2000, the Securities Purchase and Investor Rights Agreement,
dated October 26, 2000, as amended, between the Company and the signatories thereto and the
Securities Purchase and Investor Rights Agreement, dated January 3, 2003, as amended, between FWH
and the Signatories thereto shall have been terminated.

44

ARTICLE VII

CONDITIONS TO SELLERS  AND THE COMPANY S OBLIGATIONS TO CLOSE

Sellers  and the Company s obligations to consummate the transactions contemplated herein
shall be subject to the satisfaction or written waiver, by Sellers  Representatives and the Company
on or prior to the Closing Date, of each of the following conditions:

SECTION 7.1  Representations and Warranties  Covenants . The representations and
warranties of Buyer, without giving any effect to any materiality qualifications or limitations
therein shall be true and correct in all respects on and as of the Closing Date as though made on
and as of the Closing Date (except for representations and warranties made as of a specified date,
which need be true and correct only as of the specified date), except (i) as otherwise contemplated
by this Agreement and (ii) for such failures to be true and correct which would not have a material
adverse effect on Buyer s ability to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Buyer shall have performed in all material respects each of its respective agreements and covenants
contained in or contemplated by this Agreement that are required to be performed by it at or prior
to the Closing pursuant to the terms hereof.

SECTION
7.2  Filings  Consents  Waiting Periods . All registrations, filings,
applications, notices, consents, approvals, orders, qualifications and waivers set forth in Section
7.2 of the Buyer Disclosure Schedule shall have been filed, made or obtained and Buyer shall have
delivered evidence satisfactory to the Company and Sellers  Representatives evidencing same, and
all waiting periods applicable under the HSR Act and similar applicable foreign merger control laws
shall have expired or been terminated.

SECTION 7.3  No Injunction . At the Closing Date, there shall be no injunction,
restraining order or decree of any nature of any court or governmental agency or body of competent
jurisdiction that is in effect that (i) restrains or prohibits the consummation of the transactions
contemplated herein or (ii) cause any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement to be
rescinded following consummation.

SECTION 7.4  Other Deliveries . The items set forth in Section 1.2(c) shall have
been delivered by the Buyer to the Company and the Sellers  Representatives.

ARTICLE VIII

TERMINATION

SECTION 8.1  Termination . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this
Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Closing by:

(a) the mutual written consent of the Company, the Sellers  Representatives
and Buyer;

45

(b) Buyer in the event that any condition set forth in Article VI hereof       shall not be
satisfied and shall not be reasonably capable of being remedied by January       31, 2006,
 provided  however that if by such date all conditions are satisfied other than
the       expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act, such
date       shall be extended until April 30, 2006;

(c) the Company or the Sellers  Representatives in the event than any       condition set
forth in Article VII hereof shall not be satisfied and shall not be reasonably       capable of
being remedied by January 31, 2006,  provided  however that if by such date
all       conditions are satisfied other than the expiration or termination of the applicable
waiting       period under the HSR Act, such date shall be extended until April 30, 2006;

(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no party may       terminate this
Agreement pursuant to clause (b) or (c) above if the failure of the       applicable condition in
Article VI or VII, as the case may be, to be satisfied or the failure       of the Closing to occur
on or before the date required in this Section 8.1(b) or (c), as the       case may be, results
from the material breach of any covenant in this Agreement or       failure to comply with any
material obligation under the terms of this Agreement (i) by       the Sellers or the Company in
the case of a termination by the Sellers  Representatives or       the Company or (ii) by Buyer in
the case of a termination by Buyer.

SECTION 8.2  Procedure and Effect of Termination . Except as set forth in Section
8.2(c) below, in the event of termination of this Agreement and abandonment of the transactions
contemplated hereby by the parties hereto pursuant to Section 8.1 hereof, written notice thereof
shall be given by a party so terminating to the other parties and this Agreement shall forthwith
terminate and shall become null and void and of no further effect, and the transactions
contemplated hereby shall be abandoned without further action by the Company, the Sellers, Buyer
or, if applicable, FWH. If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8.1 hereof:

(a) each party shall redeliver all documents, work papers and other       materials of the
other parties relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, whether so       obtained before or
after the execution hereof, to the party furnishing the same, and all       confidential
information received by Buyer with respect to the Company and its       Subsidiaries shall be
treated in accordance with the Confidentiality Agreement pursuant       to Section 5.2(b) hereof;

(b) all filings, applications and other submissions made pursuant       hereto shall, at the
option of the Sellers, and to the extent practicable, be withdrawn from       the agency or other
Person to which made; and

(c) there shall be no liability or obligation hereunder on the part of the       Company, the
Sellers, Buyer or, if applicable, FWH or any of their respective directors,       officers,
employees, Affiliates, controlling Persons, agents, advisors or Representatives,       except with
respect to a breach of Section 4.6 hereof and except that the Company,       Sellers or Buyer, as
the case may be, may have liability to the other party if the basis of       termination is a
willful, a material breach by the Company, the Sellers or Buyer, as the

46

case may be, of one or more of the provisions of this Agreement, and except that the obligations
provided for in Sections 5.2(b), 8.2 and 10.5 hereof shall survive any such termination.

ARTICLE IX

INDEMNIFICATION

SECTION 9.1  Survival . The representations and warranties made herein shall
survive the Closing and continue in full force and effect for a period of one year thereafter, it
being the intention of the parties to shorten the statute of limitations with respect to any claim
relating to a breach or inaccuracy of such representations and warranties; provided that the
representations and warranties contained in (a) Section 2.9 (Employee Benefit Plans) and 2.10
(Environmental Matters) shall survive until the third anniversary of the Closing Date, (b) Sections
2.2 (Capitalization), 2.3 (Subsidiaries), 2.8 (Taxes ), 2.19 (Certain Fees), 2.21 (Indebtedness),
3.2 (Unit Ownership), and 3.4 (Certain Fees), (all such representations and warranties listed under
this Section 9.1(b) hereof, the  Fundamental Representations ), Excluded Claims and California
Claims shall survive until 60 days following the expiration of the applicable statute of
limitations and (c) the ENIC Fund Representation shall survive until the earlier of December 31,
2008 and the receipt by the Company of 25% of the proceeds from dividends, or the dissolution,
liquidation or winding down of, the ENIC Fund (which may be by means of dividend). Notwithstanding
the preceding sentence, any representation or warranty in respect of which indemnification may be
sought under Section 9.2 or Section 9.3 hereof and the indemnity with respect thereto, shall
survive the time at which it would otherwise terminate pursuant to this Section 9.1 if notice of
the inaccuracy or breach thereof giving rise to such right of indemnity shall have been given to
the party against whom such indemnity is sought prior to such time. Any agreements and covenants of
the parties requiring performance under this Agreement shall survive the Closing in accordance with
the terms of such agreements.

SECTION 9.2  Indemnification Provisions for Benefit of Buyer .

(a) In the event Company or the Sellers breach any of their (i) representations or
warranties or (ii) covenants or other agreements contained herein (each such breach, a   Seller
Breach  ), or there is a claim under any Excluded Claim, and the Company or the Sellers receive a
written claim for indemnification from Buyer within the survival period set forth in Section 9.1
hereof, then the Sellers agree to severally but not jointly (except that Tinicum shall be jointly
and severally liable for the Persons on Schedule II-A hereto and Craig Capital shall be jointly and
severally liable for the Persons on Schedule II-B hereto) indemnify Buyer and its Subsidiaries
(including the Company after Closing), its respective officers, agents, directors and
representatives (the   Buyer Indemnified Persons  ) from and against such Sellers  pro-rata
share of any Adverse Consequences (as defined below) caused by the Seller Breach or Excluded Claim
that such Buyer Indemnified Person shall suffer;  provided,   however,  that the Sellers shall
not have any obligation to indemnify such Buyer Indemnified Person from and against any Adverse
Consequences caused by arising from, based on or resulting

 47

from breaches of the items set forth in Section 9.2(a)(i) (X) until Buyer Indemnified Persons have
suffered aggregate Adverse Consequences by reason of all such breaches of the items set forth in
Section 9.2(a) in excess of $2 million (such amount, the   Indemnification Basket  ) (it
being understood that such amount is a  true deductible  for the first $1,000,000 of Adverse
Consequences and Sellers shall indemnify the Buyer Indemnified Persons for Adverse Consequences in
excess of $1,000,000 after such Indemnification Basket is reached) 1  and until after such
amount is reached or (Y) to the extent the Adverse Consequences Buyer Indemnified Persons have
suffered by reason of (a) all such breaches, excluding breaches of Fundamental Representations, of
the items set forth in Section 9.2(a)(i) exceeds $30 million (such amount, the   Indemnification
Cap  ) (after which point the Sellers shall have no obligation to indemnify the Buyer
Indemnified Persons from and against any such further Adverse Consequences resulting from any
Seller Breach) and (b) all such breaches of Fundamental Representations exceeds $50 million (such
amount, the   Fundamental Representations Indemnification Cap  ), it being understood that
the Indemnification Cap and the Fundamental Representations Indemnification Cap shall not be
additive and in no event shall the aggregate amount of indemnification for Adverse Consequences for
breaches of representations (including Fundamental Representations) exceed $50 million (after which
point the Sellers shall have no obligation to indemnify the Buyer Indemnified Persons from and
against any such further Adverse Consequences resulting from any breach of Fundamental
Representations);  provided ,  further  that any Adverse Consequences shall be reduced by any
insurance proceeds actually received by Buyer or the Company and its Subsidiaries in connection
with such Adverse Consequences. If and to the extent that any such or insurance proceeds are
realized in a year following the year in which the Sellers make an indemnification payment to
Buyer, Buyer shall pay such amounts to Sellers  Representative at such time. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained herein, the aggregate amount of indemnification for Adverse
Consequences for a breach of the ENIC Fund Representation shall be $1,500,000. Notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, the Indemnification Basket shall not apply to any Adverse
Consequences that arise as a result of a breach of the Fundamental Representations or ENIC Fund
Representation, and neither the Indemnification Basket nor the Indemnification Cap shall apply to
Adverse Consequences that arise as a result of a breach of a representation, warranty, covenant or
other agreement in respect of Taxes or Excluded Claims (as defined in Section 10.1). For purposes
of this Agreement,   Adverse Consequences   shall mean all demands, charges, judgments,
orders, decrees, rulings, damages, dues, penalties, Taxes, fines, costs, liabilities, losses,
liabilities, fees and expenses (including legal fees and expenses);
 provided ,  that  Adverse Consequences will not include lost profits or consequential, punitive, treble or similar damages.
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 9.1 (a), no Adverse Consequences resulting from a breach
of any representation or warranty (excluding breaches of Fundamental Representations or Excluded
Claims) shall be subject to indemnification until the Adverse Consequences resulting from such
breach exceeds $25,000, after which amount Buyer shall be entitled to indemnification for such

1  
       
     For example, if Adverse Consequences for which the Sellers are required to
indemnify were $2.5 million, Sellers  indemnification obligations would be for $1.5 million
of such Adverse Consequences. 

48

breach in accordance with the terms and subject to the limitations of this Section 9.1(a) from the
first dollar of such Adverse Consequence without regard to such $25,000 limitation.

(b) In light of the Indemnification Basket and Fundamental       Representations
Indemnification Basket, for purposes of determining the Adverse       Consequences resulting
from any Seller Breach, any representations or warranty       containing a materiality or
Material Adverse Effect qualifier shall be read as if such       material or Material Adverse
Effect qualifier were eliminated for the purposes of       calculating damages and for
purposes of determining whether a Seller Breach has       occurred.

(c) Any indemnification obligations of the Sellers in respect of this       Article IX shall
be paid within 10 Business Days after the determination thereof by wire       transfer of
immediately available funds to an account designated in writing by the       applicable Buyer
Indemnified Person.

SECTION
9.3  Indemnification Provisions for Benefit of the Sellers .

(a) In the event (i) Buyer breaches any of its representations,       warranties, covenants or
other agreements contained herein (each such breach, a
  Buyer       Breach  ) or (ii) any California
Claims arise, and Buyer receives a written claim for       indemnification from the Sellers within
the survival period set forth in Section 9.1 hereof,       then Buyer agrees to indemnify the
Sellers against any Adverse Consequences caused by       the Buyer Breach that the Sellers and
their respective officers, agents, directors
and       representatives
(the   Seller Indemnified
Persons  ) shall suffer through the date of
the       claim
for indemnification;  provided ,
 however , that Buyer shall not have any obligation to       indemnify the Seller Indemnified
Persons from and against any Adverse Consequences       caused by a Buyer Breach (i) until the
Seller Indemnified Persons together or individually       have suffered aggregate Adverse
Consequences by reason of all such breaches in excess       of the Indemnification Basket (it being
understood that such amount is a  true       deductible ) and until after such amount is reached or
(ii) to the extent the Adverse       Consequences the Seller Indemnified Persons together or
individually have suffered by       reason of all such Buyer Breaches exceed the Indemnification
Cap (after which point       Buyer shall have no obligation to indemnify the Seller Indemnified
Persons from and       against any such further Adverse Consequences resulting from any Buyer
Breach);        provided ,  further  that all such obligations of Buyer to indemnify the
Sellers shall be       reduced by any insurance proceeds actually received by the Sellers in
connection with       such Adverse Consequences. If and to the extent that any such insurance
proceeds are       realized in a year following the year in which Buyer makes an indemnification
payment       to the Sellers, the Sellers  Representatives shall pay such amounts to Buyer at such
time.       Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, neither the Indemnification Basket
nor       the Indemnification Cap shall apply to Adverse Consequences that arise as a result
of       California Claims.

(b) Buyer shall make any payments in connection with Section 9.3(a)       within 10 Business
Days to an account designated by the Sellers  Representatives by
wire

49

transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated in writing by the Sellers 
Representatives.

SECTION 9.4  Exclusive Remedy . Buyer, the Company and the Sellers acknowledge and
agree that, in the absence of fraud, the foregoing indemnification provisions in this Article IX
shall be the exclusive remedy of Buyer Indemnified Persons and the Seller Indemnified Persons with
respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this
Section 9.4 shall not (i) operate to interfere with or impede the operation of the provisions of
Section 1.4 providing for the resolution of certain disputes relating to the Purchase Price between
the parties and/or by the Independent Accounting Firm and (ii) limit the rights of the parties to
seek equitable remedies (including specific performance or injunctive relief).

SECTION
9.5  Indemnification Procedures .

(a) In the event of any claim, demand, suit, action, arbitration,       investigation, inquiry
or proceeding brought by a third party against any Indemnitee (in       each such case, a
  Third-Party Claim  ), the Indemnitee shall promptly cause written       notice of the assertion of
such Third Party Claim of which it has knowledge which is       covered by this indemnity to be
forwarded to the Indemnitor (a   Notice of Claim  ). The       failure of the Indemnitee to give a
prompt Notice of Claim of any Third Party Claim shall       not release, waive or otherwise affect
the Indemnitor s obligations with respect thereto       except to the extent that the Indemnitee is
actually prejudiced as a result of such failure.       Subject to Section 9.5(b), the Indemnitor on
behalf of the Indemnitee shall have the right       to elect to assume control of the defense of
any a Third Party Claim, and, as provided in       Section 9.6, the costs and expenses incurred by
the Indemnitor in connection with such       defense (including attorneys  fees, other
professionals  and experts  fees and court or       arbitration costs) shall be paid by the
Indemnitor. The Indemnitee may participate,       through counsel of its own choice and at its own
expense, in the defense of any Third-       Party Claim.

(b) With respect to the defense of any Third-Party Claim:

(i) the Indemnitor shall not be entitled to assume or continue control of
such defense and shall pay the costs and expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in
connection with such defense if (A) the claim for indemnification relates to or
arises in connection with any criminal proceeding, action, indictment or
investigation; (B) the claim seeks an injunction or equitable relief against the
Indemnitee (or against Buyer, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, if the
Indemnitee is an Buyer Indemnified Person), and such injunction or equitable relief,
if granted, would be materially detrimental to or materially injure Buyer s or the
Company s future business prospects (C) a conflict of interest exists between the
Indemnitor and the Indemnitee; or (D) the Indemnitor has materially failed or is
failing to defend such claim, and

50

(ii) if the claim for indemnification relates to Taxes, the Indemnitor s
rights to control the defense of such matter shall extend only to the specific issue
for which indemnification is claimed (and not the entire return or taxable period).

(c) If the Indemnitor has the right to and does elect to defend any       Third-Party Claim,
the Indemnitor shall: (i) conduct the defense of such Third-Party       Claim actively and
diligently and keep the Indemnitee fully informed of material       developments in the Third-Party
Claim at all stages thereof; (ii) promptly submit to the       Indemnitee copies of all pleadings,
responsive pleadings, motions and other similar legal       documents and papers received or filed
in connection therewith; (iii) to the extent       practicable permit the Indemnitee and its
counsel to confer with the Indemnitor regarding       the conduct of the defense thereof; and (iv)
permit the Indemnitee and its counsel an       opportunity to review all legal papers to be
submitted by or behalf of the Indemnitor prior       to their submission. Buyer and the Sellers 
Representatives will make available to each       other and each other s counsel and accountants,
without charge, all of its or their books       and records relating to the Third-Party Claim, and
each party (at its own expense) will       render to the other party such assistance as may be
reasonably required in order to insure       the proper and adequate defense thereof and shall
furnish such records, information and       testimony and attend such conferences, discovery
proceedings, hearings, trials and       appeals as may be reasonably requested by the other party
in connection therewith.

(d) If the Indemnitor has the right to and does elect to defend any       Third-Party Claim,
the Indemnitor shall have the right to enter into any settlement of a       Third-Party Claim
without the consent of the Indemnitee provided that (i) if the       Indemnitee is an Buyer
Indemnified Person, then either (A) no amount in excess of the       Indemnification Basket is
payable by such Indemnitee in connection with such settlement       or (B) the amount that is
payable in connection with such settlement does not exceed the       Indemnification Cap or the
Fundamental Representations Indemnification Cap, as and if       applicable, (ii) if the Indemnitee
is a Seller Indemnified Person, then no amount is       payable by such Indemnitee in connection
with such settlement, (iii) such settlement does       not involve any injunctive or other
equitable relief or the contractual equivalent thereof       binding upon such Indemnitee, and (iv)
such settlement expressly and unconditionally       releases such Indemnitee from all liabilities
and obligations with respect to such
claim,       with
prejudice;  provided ,  further , that
no settlement by the Indemnitor of a Third-Party       Claim shall limit or reduce the right of the
Indemnitee to indemnity hereunder for all       Damages they may incur arising out of or resulting
from the Third-Party Claim to the       extent indemnified in this Article IX.

SECTION 9.6  Resolution of Notice of Claim . Each Notice of Claim given by
Indemnitee shall be resolved as follows:

(a) If, within 20 Business Days after a Notice of Claim is delivered to the Indemnitor,
the Indemnitor agrees in writing that liability for such Claim is indemnified under Section 9.2 or
Section 9.3, as applicable, the full amount of the Adverse Consequences specified in the Notice of
Claim is agreed to, and that such Notice of Claim is timely, the Indemnitor (on behalf of the
Sellers, if the Indemnitee is a Buyer

51

Indemnified Person) shall be conclusively deemed to have consented to the recovery by the
Indemnitee of the full amount of Adverse Consequences specified in the Notice of Claim in
accordance with this Article IX.

(b) If the Indemnitor does not agree in writing to such Notice of Claim or gives
the Indemnitee written notice contesting all or any portion of a
Notice of Claim (a   Contested Claim  ) within the 20 Business Day period specified in Section 9.6(a), then such Contested Claim
shall be resolved by either (i) a written settlement agreement executed by the Buyer and the
Sellers  Representatives or (ii) in the absence of such a written settlement agreement by a court
of competent jurisdiction.

SECTION 9.7  Tax Treatment of Indemnification Payments 

Any indemnification payments made pursuant to this Article 9 shall be treated as an
adjustment to the Purchase Price for Tax purposes.

ARTICLE X

MISCELLANEOUS

SECTION 10.1  Certain Definitions . For purposes of this Agreement:

Business Day   shall mean any day other than a day on which banks in the State of New York are
authorized or obligated to be closed.

California Claim   shall mean any claim, costs, expenses or liability arising from,
based on or resulting from (i) termination of the Company s employees in the State of California
and the engagement of such employees by the Buyer or an Affiliate of the Buyer as employees,
consultants or independent contractors and (ii) the termination of the California Lease
 provided  that any default or liability arising under the California Lease  prior  to
termination is not a California Claim.

California Lease   shall mean the lease Suite No. 1750, 222 N. Sepulveda Blvd., El
Segundo, California.

Closing Time   shall mean 12:01 a.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on the Closing Date.

Confidential Information   shall mean the information and data of the Company or any
of its Subsidiaries concerning the business or affairs of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries
(including the Company s technology, computer programs, know-how, designs, inventions, methods of
doing business and supplier and customer information) (i) which is material nonpublic information,
(ii) which is proprietary to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (iii) the disclosure of which
could reasonably be expected to be detrimental or adverse to the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries, (iv) with respect to which the continued success of the Company and its Subsidiaries
depends on keeping this information from becoming known to competitors of the Company and its

 52

Subsidiaries, and (v) is or relates to the identity of any present, former or prospective
distributors of any of the Company s or any of its Subsidiaries  products or services.

Equityholder   shall mean a holder of any Equity Securities of the Company or its
Subsidiaries, including the holders of any Unit, UAR, or EAR.

Equity Securities   of any Person shall mean, as applicable, (a) any capital stock,
membership interests or other share capital, (b) any securities directly or indirectly convertible
into or exchangeable for any capital stock, membership interests or other share capital or
containing any profit participation features, (c) any rights or options directly or indirectly to
subscribe for or to purchase any capital stock, membership interests, other share capital or
securities containing any profit participation features, or to subscribe for or to purchase any
securities directly or indirectly convertible into or exchangeable for any capital stock,
membership interests, other share capital or securities containing any profit participation
features, (d) any share appreciation rights, phantom share rights or other similar rights, or (e)
any Equity Securities issued or issuable with respect to the securities referred to in clauses (a)
through (d) above in connection with a combination of shares, recapitalization, merger,
consolidation or other reorganization.

Escrow Agent   shall mean a mutually agreed upon nationally recognized bank or trust
company.

Escrow Amount   shall mean $10,000,000.

Excluded Claims   shall mean any claim arising from, based on or resulting from (i) an
Equityholder for consideration in respect of any Equity Securities of the Company or its
Subsidiaries (including as a result of the consideration received in the Restructuring) or (ii) any
Taxes arising from or attributable to the Restructuring.

Indemnitee   shall mean any Person making a claim for indemnification under Article IX hereof.

Indemnitor   shall mean any Person required receiving notice of a claim for indemnification
under Article IX hereof.

Intercompany
Indebtedness   shall mean Indebtedness of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries with respect to which the obligee is any of the Company and or its Subsidiaries.

Law   shall mean any constitution, law (including common law), statute, code, ordinance,
by-law, rule or regulation or other restriction of any Governmental Authority.

Lien   shall mean any lien, security interest, option, right of first refusal, claim,
easement, mortgage, charge, indenture, deed of trust, right of way, or other encumbrances.

53

Material Adverse Effect   shall mean a material adverse effect on the business,
financial condition or results of operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole,
excluding for such purposes, (i) any change resulting from general economic, financial or market
conditions in any of the geographic areas in which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries operates;
(ii) conditions caused by acts of terrorism or war (whether or not declared); (iii) any change
resulting from conditions or circumstances generally affecting the businesses, industries or
competitive environment, as a whole, in which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries operate; (iv)
any change resulting from the entering into of this Agreement with Buyer; and (v) any change
resulting from any changes in GAAP.

Order   shall mean any written order, injunction, judgment, decree, ruling, writ, charge, plan
or arbitration award of a Governmental Body.

Ordinary Course of Business   shall mean the ordinary and usual course of business
consistent with past custom and practice.

Studier Employment Agreement   shall mean the Employment Agreement, effective as of
June 9, 2003, by and between the Company and Frederick Studier.

Studier Payment   shall mean the amount payable as severance or in connection with the
termination of the employment of Frederick Studier under the Studier Employment Agreement and any
other arrangements between the Company and Frederick Studier.

Target
Working Capital   shall mean negative Five Million, Eight Hundred and
Eighty Two Thousand, Six Hundred dollars ($(5,882,600.00)).

SECTION 10.2  Notices . All notices, requests, demands, waivers and other
communications required or permitted to be given under this Agreement to any party hereunder shall
be in writing and deemed given on the date of receipt via (i) personal delivery; (ii) facsimile
transmission with confirmation; (iii) overnight courier; or (iv) certified or registered mail, in
each case, with delivery fees prepaid, addressed to the following addresses (or at such other
address for a party as shall be specified by notice given hereunder).

If to Buyer, to:

Duramed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
c/o Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
400 Chestnut Ridge Road 
Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey 07677 
Attn: General Counsel 
Telecopy: (888) 843-0563

54

with copies to:

Kirkland   Ellis LLP 
153 East 53 rd  Street 
Citigroup Center 
Attn: Frederick Tanne, Esq.   Heidi Matterfis, Esq. 
Telecopy: (212) 446-4900

If to the Company, and prior to the Restructuring, to FWH, to:

Copper 380T LLC or FEI Women s Health, LLC

c/o 
Tinicum Capital Partners, L.P. 
800 Third Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Attn: Robert J. Kelly 
Telecopy: (212) 750-9358

Craig Capital Corporation  25
Perryridge Road,  
Greenwich, CT
06830  
Attention: Charles S. Craig 
Telecopy: (203) 869-8594

If to any Sellers to the address set forth below such Seller s name on Exhibit A
attached hereto.

with copies, in the case of notice to the Company or any Sellers, to:

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher   Flom LLP 
Four Times Square 
New York, New York 10036-6522 
Attn: Richard J. Grossman, Esq. 
Telecopy: (917) 777-2116

SECTION 10.3  Interpretation .

(a) When a reference is made to an Article, Section or Schedule, such reference shall be
to an Article, Section or Schedule of or to this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The
definitions in this Agreement shall apply equally to both the singular and plural forms of the
terms defined. Whenever the words  include,   includes  or  including  are used in this Agreement,
they shall be deemed to be followed by the words  without
limitation.  The   Knowledge of the
Company   shall mean the actual knowledge of the individuals set forth in Section 10.3 of the
Company Disclosure Schedule. In the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation
arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties and no presumption
or

55

burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any
provisions of this Agreement.

(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Sellers and the Company shall
be liable to the Buyer and the Buyer shall be entitled to claim that any representation or warranty
of the Company or the Sellers has been breached on account of (i) any fact, matter or circumstance
which the Buyer was aware of on or before the date hereof or (ii) any fact, matter or circumstance
which the Buyer becomes aware of between the date of this Agreement and the Closing Date.

SECTION 10.4  Amendments, Modification and Waiver .

(a) This Agreement, and the terms and provisions hereof, may not be       modified, waived or
amended except by an instrument or instruments in writing signed       by the party against whom
enforcement of any such modification or amendment is sought       (or, in the case of a waiver, by
the intended beneficiary of the waived term or
provision);        provided ,
 however , that
the Sellers hereby agree that an amendment, waiver or       modification may be enforced against
all Sellers if the Sellers  Representatives has signed       such amendment, waiver or modification
and such amendment, waiver or modification       affects all Sellers in the same manner.

(b) No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, power or       privilege
hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial       exercise thereof
preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other       right, power or
privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative       and not exclusive of
any rights or remedies provided by law.

SECTION 10.5  Expenses . Except as otherwise provided herein, each party shall pay
its own costs and expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, Buyer shall be responsible for paying all fees, costs and expenses relating to filings
under the HSR Act or any other competition or antitrust law in relevant jurisdictions. The Buyer
and the Equityholders (including the Sellers  Representatives) agree and acknowledge that the
Sellers  Representatives shall, to the extent not previously paid by the Company, direct the Buyer
to pay a portion of the Purchase Price at Closing to certain third parties (e.g., the Company s
counsel, financial advisor (including the fees payable to Lehman Brothers and Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher   Flom LLP), accountant, etc.) for purposes of paying the costs and expenses incurred by
the Company in connection with this Agreement and the sale process conducted by Lehman Brothers;
any fees not so paid shall be accrued as a liability on the Working Capital included in the Closing
Statement.

SECTION 10.6  Sellers  Representatives . Each Seller, EAR holder and UAR holder
hereby authorizes, directs and appoints Tinicum and Craig Capital, acting in concert, to act as
sole and exclusive agent, attorney-in-fact and representative (the   Sellers Representatives  ) and authorizes and directs the Sellers  Representatives to (i) take any and
all actions (including, without limitation, making representations and warranties, executing and
delivering any documents, incurring any costs and expenses on

56

behalf of the Sellers, EAR holders and UAR holders, and making any and all determinations,
including, without limitation, determinations with respect to the Working Capital adjustment) which
may be required or permitted by this Agreement to be taken by the Sellers, EAR holders and UAR
holders; (ii) exercise such other rights, power and authority, as are authorized, delegated and
granted to the Sellers  Representatives pursuant to this Agreement; (iii) exercise such rights,
power and authority as are incidental to the foregoing; and (iv) enter into Contribution Agreements
(as defined in Section 5.10 hereof) and exercise such rights, power and authority as are
authorized, delegated and granted to the Sellers  Representatives pursuant to the Contribution
Agreements. Any such actions taken, exercises of rights, power or authority, and any decision or
determination made by the Sellers  Representatives consistent therewith, shall be absolutely and
irrevocably binding on each Seller, EAR holder and UAR holder as if such Persons personally had
taken such action, exercised such rights, power or authority or made such decision or determination
in such Seller s capacity. Each Seller, EAR holder and UAR holder hereby releases and forever
discharges Sellers  Representatives of (i) any liability resulting from any and all actions of the
Sellers  Representatives, other than liability resulting from Sellers  Representatives willful
misconduct, and (ii) any other obligations of whatever kind, known or unknown, arising from or
related to actions taken by Sellers  Representatives on behalf of such Seller, EAR holder or UAR
holder pursuant to this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 10.6,
nothing in this Section 10.6 shall obligate Tinicum or Craig Capital to act, collectively or
individually, as sole and exclusive agent, attorney-in-fact and representative on behalf of the
Sellers, EAR and UAR holders. In the event that Tinicum or Craig Capital chooses not to act as
Sellers  Representatives as to any issue relating to the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, Tinicum or Craig Capital shall provide written notice to all Sellers, and each other, of
such decision. Tinicum s or Craig Capital s decision to refrain from acting as Sellers 
Representatives as to any issue shall in no way affect its authority to act as Sellers 
Representatives as to any other matter within the grant of authority set forth in this Section 10.6
Each Seller, EAR holder and UAR holder shall be responsible for his, her and its share of the
Sellers  Representatives  expenses in its capacity as such. Buyer may assume and treat every
notice, payment or any other action direct to the Sellers  Representatives as if such notice,
payment or other action had been directed to each Seller, EAR holder and UAR holder.

SECTION 10.7  Successors and Assigns; Binding Effect . Neither this Agreement nor any of the
rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be assigned, directly or indirectly, including,
without limitation, by operation of law, by any party hereto without the prior written consent of
the other parties hereto; provided that Buyer may assign this Agreement and its rights and
obligations hereunder (a) prior to the Closing to any Affiliate of Buyer (provided that no such
assignment shall relieve Buyer from its obligations hereunder) and (b) following the Closing to any
Person or Persons without the consent of the other parties hereto (provided that no such assignment
shall relieve Buyer from its obligations hereunder);  provided that , prior to Closing, in no
event shall Buyer be permitted to assign this Agreement and its rights and obligations hereunder if
such assignment would violate or jeopardize any consent to this transaction obtained by the
Population Council or the terms of any guarantee given by Barr, Buyer or any other entity regarding
the Population Council Agreement. Subject to the preceding

57

sentence and notwithstanding anything to the contrary, this Agreement and all of the
provisions hereof shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and
their respective successors and permitted assigns.

SECTION 10.8  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware (regardless of the laws that might
otherwise govern under applicable principles of choice of laws or conflicts of laws of the State of
Delaware or any other jurisdiction) as to all matters, including, but not limited to, matters of
validity, construction, effect, performance and remedies.

SECTION 10.9  Jurisdiction: Forum .

(a) By the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Buyer, the       Sellers, the Company
and, prior to the Restructuring, FWH submit to the personal       jurisdiction of any state or
federal court in the State of Delaware in any suit or proceeding       arising out of or relating
to this Agreement.

(b) The parties hereto agree that the appropriate and exclusive forum       for any disputes
between any of the parties hereto arising out of this Agreement or the       transactions
contemplated hereby shall be in any state or federal court in the State of       Delaware. The
parties hereto further agree that the parties will not bring suit with respect       to any
disputes arising out of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in       any court
or jurisdiction other than the above specified courts;
 provided ,  however , that       the
foregoing shall not limit the rights of the parties to obtain execution of judgment in       any
other jurisdiction. The parties hereto further agree, to the extent permitted by law,       that
final and unappealable judgment against a party in any action or proceeding       contemplated
above shall be conclusive and may be enforced in any other jurisdiction       within or outside the
United States by suit on the judgment, a certified or exemplified       copy of which shall be
conclusive evidence of the fact and amount of such judgment.

SECTION 10.10  Severability . If any term or other provision of this Agreement is
invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any rule of law, or public policy, all other
conditions and provision of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so
long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated herein is not affected in
any manner materially adverse to any party hereto. Upon such determination that any term or other
provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in
good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely
as possible in a mutually acceptable manner.

SECTION 10.11  Third Party Beneficiaries . Nothing in this Agreement, express or
implied, is intended or shall be construed to create any third party beneficiaries, except for the
provisions of Section 5.3 hereof which may be enforced by the beneficiaries thereof.

SECTION 10.12  Schedules . 

58

(a) Disclosure of any fact or item in any section of the Company       Disclosure Schedule,
the Sellers Disclosure Schedule or the Buyer Disclosure Schedule       hereto referenced by a
particular paragraph or section in this Agreement shall, should the       existence of the fact or
item or its contents be readily apparent to be relevant to any other       paragraph or section, be
deemed to be disclosed with respect to that other paragraph or       section whether or not an
explicit cross-reference appears.

(b) Certain of the representations and warranties set forth in this       Agreement
contemplate that there will be included in the Company Disclosure Schedule,       the Sellers
Disclosure Schedule or the Buyer Disclosure Schedule information that might       be  material  or
have a  material adverse effect.  The Company, Sellers or Buyer may,       at their option, include
in such schedules items that are not material or are not likely to       have a material adverse
effect, and, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, any such       inclusion shall not be deemed
to be an acknowledgment or representation that such items       are material or would have a
material effect, to establish any standard of materiality or       material adverse effect, or to
define further the meaning of such terms for purposes of this       Agreement.

SECTION 10.13  Entire Agreement . This Agreement and the Confidentiality Agreement,
including any exhibits or schedules to this Agreement or the Confidentiality Agreement, constitute
the entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and
supersede all other prior agreements or understandings, both written and oral, between the parties
or any of them with respect to the subject matter hereof. The only representations and warranties
made by the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof are the representations and
warranties contained in or made pursuant to this Agreement.

SECTION 10.14  Counterparts . This Agreement may be signed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, with the same effect as if the signatures
were upon the same instrument.

SECTION 10.15  Waiver of Jury Trial . TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW
WHICH CANNOT BE WAIVED, EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES AND COVENANTS THAT IT WILL NOT ASSERT
(WHETHER AS PLAINTIFF, DEFENDANT OR OTHERWISE) ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY FORUM IN RESPECT
OF ANY ISSUE OR ACTION, CLAIM, CAUSE OF ACTION OR SUIT (IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) INQUIRY,
PROCEEDING OR INVESTIGATION ARISING OUT OF OR BASED UPON THIS AGREEMENT OR THE SUBJECT MATTER
HEREOF OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH OR RELATED OR INCIDENTAL TO THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED
HEREBY, IN EACH CASE WHETHER NOW EXISTING OR HEREAFTER ARISING.

59

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by
their respective authorized officers as of the date and year first above written.

COPPER 380T, LLC 

By:

/s/ C.S CRAIG

Name: C.S. Craig

Title:  CO-CHAIRMAN 

FEI WOMEN S HEALTH. L.L.C 

By:

/s/ C.S CRAIG

Name: C.S. Craig

Title:  CO-CHAIRMAN 

DURAMED PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 

By:

/s/ Paul M. Bismo

Name: Paul M. Bismo

Title: President 

SELLERS:  

TINICUM CAPITAL PARTNERS, LP 

By:

/s/ ROBERT J. KELLY

Name: Robert J. Kelly

Title: Co-Chairman 

TINICUM CAPITAL PARTNERS PARALLEL FUND, LP 

By:

/s/ ROBERT J. KELLY

Name: Robert J. Kelly

Title: Co-Chairman 

TINICUM CAPITAL PARTNERS EXECUTIVE FUND I, LLC 

By:

/s/ ROBERT J. KELLY

Name: Robert J. Kelly 

Title: Co-Chairman 

CHARLES S. CRAIGROLLOVER IRA 

By:

/s/ C.S. CRAIG

Name: C.S. Craig 

Title: Trustee 

CHARLES S. CRAIG SEP IRA 

By:

/s/ C.S. CRAIG

Name: C.S. Craig 

Title: Trustee 

C.S. CRAIG FAMILY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP CRAIG FAMILY HOLDINGS LLC AS GENERAL PARTNER 

By:

/s/ C.S. CRAIG

Name: C.S. Craig 

Title: MANAGER 

C.S. CRAIG FAMILY FOUNDATION 

By:

/s/ C.S. CRAIG

Name: C.S. Craig 

Title: CHAIRMAN 

CHARLES S. CRAIG SEP IRA 

By: 

Name: Title: 

C.S. CRAIG FAMILY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

C.S. CRAIG FAMILY FOUNDATION 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

11/24/87 TRUST FBO KERWELYN C. CRAIG 

By:

/s/ Cynthia C. Harwood 

Name:

Cynthia C. Harwood 

Title:

Trustee 

12/17/86 TRUST FBO NEDENIA H. CRAIG 

By:

/s/ Cynthia C. Harwood 

Name:

Cynthia C. Harwood 

Title:

Trustee 

CCC INVESTMENT PARTNERS I, LP 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

TANTALLON INVESTORS, LLC 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

CHARLES S. CRAIG SEP IRA 

By: 

Name: Title: 

C.S. CRAIG FAMILY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

C.S. CRAIG FAMILY FOUNDATION 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

11/24/87 TRUST FBO KERWELYN C. CRAIG 

By:

/s/ Paul L. Maddock, Jr. 

Name:

Paul L. Maddock. Jr. 

Title:

Trustee 

12/17/86 TRUST FBO NEDENIA H. CRAIG 

By:

/s/ Paul L. Maddock, Jr. 

Name:

Paul L. Maddock, Jr. 

Title:

Trustee 

CCC INVESTMENT PARTNERS I, LP 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

TANTALLON INVESTORS, LLC 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

11/24/87 TRUST FBO KERWELYN C. CRAIG 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

12/17/86 TRUST FBO NEDENIA H. CRAIG 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

CCC INVESTMENT PARTNERS
I, LP CRAIG CAPITAL CORPORATION AS GENERAL PARTNER 

By:

/s/ C.S CRAIG

Name: C.S. Craig 

Title: CHAIRMAN 

CCC INVESTMENT PARTNERS II, LP CRAIG CAPITAL CORPORATION AS GENERAL PARTNER 

By:

/s/ C.S CRAIG

Name: C.S. Craig 

Title: CHAIRMAN 

TANTALLON INVESTORS, LLC 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

CHARLES S. CRAIG SEP IRA 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

C.S, CRAIG FAMILY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP 

By: 

Name:

Title: 

C.S. CRAIG FAMILY FOUNDATION 

By: 

Name:

Title: 

11/24/87 TRUST FBO KERWELYN C. CRAIG 

By: 

Name:

Title: 

12/17/86 TRUST FBO NEDENIA H. CRAIG 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

CCC INVESTMENT PARTNERS I, LP 

By: 

Name:

Title: 

TANTALLON INVESTORS, LLC 

By:

/s/  DAVID D. COLBUAN 

Name: DAVID D. COLBUAN 

Title: MANAGER 

ABN AMRO 
       
     CCC PRIVATE EQUITY INVESTMENTS, INC. 

By:

/s/ Kent A. Hammerstrom 

Name: Kent A. Hammerstrom 

Title:    Vice President 

/s/ Michael G. Manasse 

Michael G. Manasse 

/s/ Alfred C. Zedlitz, III 

Alfred C. Zedlitz, III

/s/ Stanley M. Rumbough 

Stanley M. Rumbough 

SELLERS and UAR Holders:  

/s/ Cynthia Ambres 

Cynthia Ambres 

/s/ Brian Geiger 

Brian Geiger 

/s/ Jennifer M. Gates 

Jennifer M. Gates 

/s/ Bruce M. Bronnenkant 

Bruce M. Bronnenkant 

SELLERS and EAR Holders  

/s/ Frederick Studier 

Frederick Studier 

/s/ James Bloom 

James Bloom 

EAR Holders  

/s/ Scott Coleridge 

Scott Coleridge 

/s/ Laura MacIssac

Laura MacIssac 

/s/ Colleen McKenna 

Colleen McKenna 

/s/ Dixie Newman 

Dixie Newman 

UAR Holders  

/s/ Marc McDermott 

Marc McDermott 

/s/ Tom Mehs 

Tom Mehs 

</EX-2.1>

<EX-31.1>
 3
 y17265exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT
31.1

CERTIFICATION OF BRUCE L. DOWNEY PURSUANT TO 
EXCHANGE ACT RULES 13a-14(a) AND 15d-14(a), AS ADOPTED 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, Bruce L. Downey, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
quarterly report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule
13a15(f) and 15(d)-15(f) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:
February 8, 2006

/s/ Bruce L. Downey 

Bruce L. Downey 

Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer 

32

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 4
 y17265exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.2 

EXHIBIT
31.2

CERTIFICATION OF WILLIAM T. MCKEE PURSUANT TO 
EXCHANGE ACT RULES 13a-14(a) AND 15d-14(a), AS ADOPTED 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, William T. McKee, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
quarterly report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule
13a15(f) and 15(d)-15(f) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:
February 8, 2006

/s/ William T. McKee 

William T. McKee 

Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer, and Treasurer 

33

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 5
 y17265exv32.htm
 EX-32: CERTIFICATION

EX-32 

EXHIBIT
32.0

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

Each of the undersigned hereby certifies, in his capacity as an officer of Barr
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (the  Company ), for the purposes of 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to
 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of his knowledge:

(1) The Quarterly Report of the Company on Form 10-Q for the period ended December 31, 2005 fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Dated: February 8, 2006

/s/Bruce L. Downey

Bruce L. Downey

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

/s/William T. McKee

William T. McKee

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Barr
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and will be retained by Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

34

</EX-32>

