<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060315_10-Q_edgar_data_1314077_0000950152-06-002132_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>262968</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>62120</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>126424</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>24</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>3</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950152-06-002132.hdr.sgml : 20060315
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060315164943
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950152-06-002132
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		4
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060315
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060315

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BPI Energy Holdings, Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001314077
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				000000000

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-32695
		FILM NUMBER:		06688826

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		885 WEST GEORGIA ST
		STREET 2:		SUITE 1500
		CITY:			VANCOUVER BC V6C 3E8
		STATE:			A1
		ZIP:			00000
		BUSINESS PHONE:		604-685-8688

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		885 WEST GEORGIA ST
		STREET 2:		SUITE 1500
		CITY:			VANCOUVER BC V6C 3E8
		STATE:			A1
		ZIP:			00000

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BPI Industries Inc
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20050111

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 PyHxqQffW1FxTSxqjm4JDYdATs/Rq8zRRYtB2jNWrIHhtXM5sjDhVlXXDvDrRiyb
 rD/uIACB5j32X4eiq0DiGg==

 0000950152-06-002132.txt : 20060315

10-Q
 1
 l19148ae10vq.htm
 BPI ENERGY HOLDINGS, INC.        10-Q

BPI Energy Holdings, Inc.        10-Q 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-Q 

QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the Quarterly Period Ended January 31, 2006 

Commission File No. 001-32695 

BPI Energy Holdings, Inc. 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  (440) 248-4200 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer  and
 large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer    

Accelerated filer    

Non-accelerated filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes     No       

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common
stock, as of the latest practicable date: Common Shares, without par
value, as of March 13,
2006: 66,604,687

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
Item 1. Financial Statements 

BPI Energy Holdings, Inc. 
Consolidated Balance Sheets 

ASSETS 

See Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements.

BPI Energy Holdings, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Operations 
(Unaudited) 

See Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements.

BPI Energy Holdings, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity 
(Unaudited) 

See Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements.

BPI Energy Holdings, Inc. 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
(Unaudited) 

Interest paid approximates interest expense.

See Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements.

BPI Energy Holdings, Inc. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Unaudited) 

1. 
       
      SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Basis of Presentation  

These unaudited consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of BPI Energy
Holdings, Inc. and its wholly owned U.S. subsidiary, BPI Energy, Inc. (collectively,  the
Company ). All inter-company transactions and balances have been eliminated upon
consolidation. 

BPI Energy Holdings, Inc. is incorporated in British Columbia, Canada and, through its wholly
owned U.S. subsidiary, BPI Energy, Inc., is involved in the acquisition, exploration and
development of coalbed methane properties located in the United States of America. The
Company conducts its operations in one reportable segment, which is oil and gas exploration
and production. On December 13, 2005, the Company s common shares began trading on the
American Stock Exchange ( AMEX ) under the symbol BPG. As a result of the shares being listed
on the AMEX, the Company voluntarily de-listed from trading its shares on the TSX Venture
Exchange. Amounts shown are in U.S. Dollars unless otherwise indicated. 

The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the
instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include
all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles for
complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of
normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
Operating results for the quarter and six months ended January 31, 2006 are not necessarily
indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year. For further
information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the
Company s Form S-1 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 5, 2005.
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. 

Use of Estimates  

The preparation of these unaudited consolidated financial statements requires the use of
certain estimates by management in determining the Company s assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses. Actual results could differ from such estimates. Depreciation, depletion and
amortization of oil and gas properties and the impairment of oil and gas properties are
determined using estimates of oil and gas reserves. There are numerous uncertainties in
estimating the quantity of reserves and in projecting the future rates of production and
timing of development expenditures, including future costs to dismantle, dispose of, and
restore the Company s properties. Oil and gas reserve engineering must be recognized as a
subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be
measured in an exact way. Proved reserves of oil and natural gas are estimated quantities that
geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the
future from known reservoirs under existing conditions. 

Oil and Gas Properties  

The Company follows the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Under this
method, all costs associated with the acquisition of, exploration for and development of oil
and gas reserves are capitalized in cost centers on a country-by-country basis (currently the
Company has one cost center, the United States). Such costs include lease acquisition costs,
geological and geophysical studies, carrying charges on non-producing properties, costs of
drilling both productive and non-productive wells, and overhead expenses directly related to
these activities. Internal costs associated with oil and gas activities that are not directly
attributable to acquisition, exploration or development activities are expensed as incurred. 

Unevaluated oil and gas properties and major development projects are excluded from
amortization until a determination of whether proved reserves can be assigned to the
properties or impairment occurs. Unevaluated properties are assessed at least annually to
ascertain whether an impairment has occurred. Sales or dispositions of properties are credited
to their respective cost centers and a gain or loss is recognized when all the properties in a
cost center have been disposed of, unless such sale or disposition significantly alters the
relationship between capitalized costs and proved reserves attributable to the cost center. 

Capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties, including estimated future costs to
develop the reserves and estimated abandonment cost, net of salvage, are amortized on the
units-of-production method using estimates of proved reserves. 

A ceiling test is applied to each cost center by comparing the net capitalized costs, less
related deferred income taxes, to the estimated future net revenues from production of proved
reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the costs of unproved properties net of impairment. Any
excess capitalized costs are written off in the current year. The calculation of future net
revenues is based upon prices, costs and regulations in effect at each year end. 

In general, the Company determines if a property is impaired if one or more of the following
conditions exist: 

i)      there are no firm plans for further drilling on the unproved property; 

ii)     negative results were obtained from studies of the unproved property; 

iii)    negative results were obtained from studies conducted in the vicinity of the unproved property; or 

iv)    the remaining term of the unproved property does not allow sufficient time for further studies or drilling. 

Other Property and Equipment  

Property and equipment are stated at cost. Gas collection equipment is depreciated on the
units-of-production method based on proved reserves. Support equipment and other property and
equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
the assets, ranging from three to ten years. Major classes of property and equipment
consisted of the following: 

Asset Retirement Obligations  

The Company follows Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 143, Accounting
for Asset Retirement Obligations. SFAS No. 143 requires the Company to record the fair value
of an asset retirement obligation as a liability in the period in which it is incurred, if a
reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The present value of the estimated asset
retirement costs is capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the associated long-lived
asset. Amortization of the capitalized asset retirement cost is determined on a
units-of-production method. Accretion of the asset retirement obligation is recognized over
time until the obligation is settled. The Company s asset retirement obligations relate to
the plugging of wells upon exhaustion of gas reserves. The Company assessed its asset
retirement obligation in prior periods and deemed it to be immaterial. The initial liability
for our asset retirement obligations was recorded as of August 1, 2005 in the amount of
$19,778. 

The following table summarizes the activity for the Company s asset retirement obligations for
the six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005: 

Loss Per Share  

Loss per share is calculated using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during the year. Diluted loss per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if
securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common
stock. Diluted loss per share is not disclosed as all common share equivalents were
anti-dilutive for the quarter and six months ended January 31, 2006. Outstanding options and
warrants that were excluded from the computation of diluted loss per share, as the effect of
their assumed exercises would be anti-dilutive, totaled 14,844,215 at October 31, 2005 and
13,150,828 at January 31, 2006. 

Share-Based Payment  

Prior to December 13, 2005 the Company had a stock-based compensation plan (the  Incentive
Stock Option Plan ) under which stock options were issued to directors, officers, employees
and consultants as determined by the Board of Directors and subject to the provisions of the
Incentive Stock Option Plan. The Incentive Stock Option Plan permitted options to be issued
with exercise prices at a discount to the market price of the Company s common stock on the
day prior to the date of grant. However, the majority of all stock options issued under the
Incentive Stock Option Plan were issued with exercise prices equal to the quoted market price
of the stock on the date of grant. Options granted under the Incentive Stock Option Plan
vested immediately and were exercisable over a period not exceeding five years. The Company
had options to purchase 4,030,612 shares of common stock outstanding under the Incentive Stock
Option Plan at January 31, 2006. 

On December 13, 2005, the shareholders of the Company approved the BPI Industries Inc. 2005
Omnibus Stock Plan (the  Omnibus Stock Plan ) and it became effective on that date. The
Omnibus Stock Plan replaces the Incentive Stock Option Plan under which stock options were
previously granted. The Omnibus Stock Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee
of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) and will remain in effect for five years. All
employees and Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries, and all consultants or agents of
the Company designated by the Committee, are eligible to participate in the Omnibus Stock
Plan. The Committee has authority to: grant awards, select the participants who will receive
awards, determine the terms, conditions, vesting periods and restrictions applicable to the
awards, determine how the exercise price is to be paid, modify or replace outstanding awards
within the limits of the Omnibus Stock Plan, accelerate the date on which awards become
exercisable, waive the restrictions and conditions applicable to awards, and establish rules
governing the Omnibus Stock Plan. No options have been issued under the Omnibus Stock Plan as
of January 31, 2006. 

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment. This Statement revises
SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  and supersedes APB
Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.  SFAS No. 123(R) focuses primarily
on the accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in share-based
payment transactions. The key provision of SFAS No. 123(R) requires companies to record
share-based payment transactions as compensation expense at fair market value based on the
grant-date fair value of those awards. Previously under SFAS 123, companies had the option of
either recording expense based on the fair value of stock options granted or continuing to
account for stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB No.
25. 

The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), using the modified-prospective method, effective August
1, 2005. Since August 1, 2001, the Company followed the fair value provisions of SFAS 123 and
recorded all share-based payment transactions as compensation expense at fair market value
based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. In addition, all stock options previously
granted by the Company vested immediately on the date of grant, and
thus there was
no unvested portion of previous stock option grants which vested during the
quarter or six months ended January 31, 2006. Therefore, SFAS 123(R) had no impact on the
Company s consolidated financial position or results of operations for the quarter and six
months ended January 31, 2006. The Company continues to use the Black-Scholes formula to
estimate the fair value of stock options previously granted under the Incentive Stock Option
Plan. 

2. 
       
      STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION  

The tables below summarize stock options activity for the six months ended January 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively. All stock options were granted with exercise prices denominated in
Canadian Dollars. U.S. Dollar amounts shown in the tables below were derived using published
exchange rates on the date of the transaction for grants, cancellations, exercises and
expirations and at period-end exchange rates for options outstanding as of July 31, 2005 and
2004 and January 31, 2006 and 2005. 

Option pricing models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, particularly as to
the expected price volatility of the stock. Changes in these assumptions can materially
affect the fair value estimate, and therefore it is management s view that the existing models
do not necessarily provide a single reliable measure of the fair value of the Company s stock
option grants. 

The following table summarizes information about options outstanding as of January 31, 2006: 

3. 
       
      INCOME TAXES  

We operate in two tax jurisdictions, the United States and Canada. Primarily as a result
of the net operating losses that we have generated ( NOL Carryforwards ) in both Canada and
the United States, we have generated deferred tax benefits available for tax purposes to
offset net income in future periods. SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes , requires that
we record a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of
the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets
is dependent upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income before the expiration of
the NOL Carryforwards. Because of the Company s limited operating history, limited financial
performance and cumulative tax loss from inception, it is management s judgment that SFAS No.
109 requires the recording of a full valuation allowance for net deferred tax assets in both
Canada and the United States as of January 31, 2006. 

We recorded a tax benefit in the United States for the six months ended January 31, 2005 to
partially offset a net deferred tax liability at January 31, 2005; however, no tax benefit was
recognized for the six months ended January 31, 2006 as the Company had no net deferred
tax liability to offset. 

4. 
       
      LONG-TERM NOTES PAYABLE  

The Company has outstanding notes payable as follows: 

The notes are collateralized by the related vehicles and equipment. The convertible note
payable outstanding at July 31, 2005 was issued in June 2003 with a face value of $392,000 and
maturing on June 10, 2008, bearing interest at 3.25%, convertible at the option of the
holder, prior to June 10, 2008, into 390,537 common shares of the Company. The convertible
note payable was cancelled on January 4, 2005 pursuant to the sale of the Company s interest
in Hite Coalbed Methane, L.L.C.   see Note 7. 

The annual maturities of all notes for the remaining six months of fiscal year 2006 and the
four fiscal years thereafter are as follows: 

6. 
       
      RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  

The Company enters into various transactions with related parties in the normal course of
business operations. 

Randy Oestreich, the Company s Vice President of Field Operations, owns and operates A-Strike
Consulting, a consulting company that provides, among other things, laboratory testing
related to CBM. Beginning in the fiscal year ended July 31, 2005, the Company owns and
maintains a lab testing facility and allows A-Strike Consulting to operate the facility. The
Company pays all expenses related to the facility and, in return, receives 80% of the revenue
generated from the operations of the facility as reimbursement of the Company s expenses.
The Company received approximately $38,451 and $0 in expense reimbursement related to this
arrangement during the six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

Mr. Oestreich s brother owns Dependable Service Company, a company that provides general
labor services to the Company. The Company paid Dependable Services Company $160,679 and
$54,929 during the six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

7. 
       
      SALE OF INVESTMENT IN HITE COALBED METHANE, L.L.C.  

On January 4, 2006, the Company sold its 49% interest in Hite Coalbed Methane, L.L.C.
( HCM ) for $551,000 in cash and cancellation of the Company s convertible note payable in
the amount of $392,000, plus accrued interest of $31,182. The note was convertible into
390,537 of the Company s common shares. The Company accounted for its investment in HCM under
the cost method of accounting. The total consideration received of $974,182 resulted in a
gain on the sale of the investment of $127,416, which is included in other income in the
Company s statement of operations for the quarter and six months ended January 31, 2006. 

8. 
       
      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

On April 3, 2001 the Company entered into an Oil, Gas and Coalbed Methane Gas Lease
( Lease ) with American Premier Underwriters, Inc. and AFC Coal Properties, Inc.
(collectively, the  Lessors ). 

The Lease has an initial term of five years that expires on April 3, 2006; however, the term
is extended as to the 320 acre tract that surrounds each well so long as CBM is produced from
such tract providing a royalty payment of at least $1.00 per acre per month; provided,
however, after the initial five year term, if aggregate royalties do not exceed $42,000 in
any month, the Lease shall terminate. 

In August 2005, the original Lessors transferred, subject to the Lease, certain of their
rights under the Lease, including certain of their rights in and to the CBM to Colt, LLC and
Peabody Land Holdings, LLC (collectively, the  Transferees ). The Company believes that at
least one of the Transferees, Colt, LLC, has taken steps that have interfered with the
Company s ability to carry out its development plans and generate the royalties necessary to
extend the Lease (including the establishment of additional wells prior to the April 3, 2006
deadline). 

On March 15, 2006, the Company filed a complaint against the Lessors and Transferees alleging
(i) tortious interference with business relations and (ii) breach of contract. The Company
is seeking a preliminary and permanent injunction, declaratory judgment and
unspecified monetary damages. The complaint was filed in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of Ohio. 

The Company believes that it should be successful in extending the term of the lease as to
existing wells and certain other areas subject to the Lease where the Company believes the
Lessors and Transferees have interfered with its ability to establish wells prior to the
April 3, 2006 deadline. However, there exists a reasonable possibility that the Company will
be unable to extend the Lease as to either or both of the existing wells or additional areas
where the Lessors and Transferees have interfered with the Company s establishment of wells.
The effect of the loss of all of the Company s acreage under the Lease may result in a
write-down of capitalized net oil and gas and other 

properties in an amount up to
approximately $22 million. The effect of the loss of only the Company s non-producing
acreage (those areas in which wells had not yet been established) may result in a write-down
of capitalized net oil and gas and other properties in an amount up to approximately $4
million. 

9. 
       
      SUBSEQUENT EVENT  

On February 9, 2006, at a special meeting of the Company s shareholders, the
shareholders voted to approve amendments to the Company s governing documents that: 

1. 
       
     changed the name of the Company to BPI Energy Holdings, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     increased the number of shares of common stock that the Company is authorized to
issue from 100 million shares to 200 million shares; 

3. 
       
     increased the quorum necessary to transact business at a meeting of the Company s
shareholders to the holders of 33 1/3% of the Company s shares of common stock; and 

4. 
       
     permit meetings of the Company s shareholders to be held outside of British
Columbia, Canada. 

Each of the amendments to the Company s governing documents was previously approved by the
unanimous vote of the Company s Board of Directors. 

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The discussion and analysis that follows should be read together with the accompanying
unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes related thereto that are included under
Item 1.

Overview and Outlook 

We are an independent energy company incorporated in British Columbia, Canada and primarily
engaged, through our wholly owned U.S. subsidiary, BPI Energy, Inc., in the exploration for
and development of coalbed methane ( CBM ). Our exploration and development efforts are
concentrated in the Illinois Basin. Our Canadian activities are limited to administrative
reporting obligations to the province of British Columbia and regulatory reporting to the
British Columbia Securities Commission. As of our second quarter ended January 31, 2006, we
owned or controlled CBM rights, through mineral leases, options to acquire mineral leases,
and farm-out agreements, covering 418,435 total acres. A substantial majority of the acreage
under our control was undeveloped as of January 31, 2006.

Although we capitalize exploration costs, we have historically experienced significant
losses. The primary costs that generated these losses were compensation-related expenses and
general and administrative expenses. We commenced CBM sales from our first producing wells in
January 2005, generating $117,835 in gas sales during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2005.
During the six months ended January 31, 2006, we generated gas sales of $537,505. During the
fiscal year ended July 31, 2004 and for the preceding fiscal year we had no revenues. Our
focus during those years was the acquisition of CBM rights and exploration for CBM in the
Illinois Basin. Future revenues are primarily dependent on our ability to produce and sell
CBM.

We are not currently generating net income or positive cash flow from operations. Even if we
achieve increased revenues and positive cash flow from operations in the future, we
anticipate increased exploration, development and other capital expenditures as we continue
to explore and develop our mineral rights.

We believe that our current cash balances are sufficient to fully fund our capital
expenditures and fund our anticipated net cash used by operating activities through July 31,
2006. However, our revenues and cash balances may not be sufficient to fund our operations
beyond that date. Therefore, in order to fund our operations after July 31, 2006, we will
likely need to raise additional financing.

Several factors, over which we have little or no control, could impact our future economic
success. These factors include natural gas prices, limitations imposed by the terms and
conditions of our lease agreements, the extent of our rights under mineral leases as
determined by further title investigation, possible court rulings concerning our property
interests in CBM, availability of drilling rigs, operating costs, and environmental and other
regulatory matters. In our planning process, we have attempted to address these issues by:

negotiating leases that grant us the broadest possible rights to CBM for any given tract of land; 

conducting ongoing title reviews of existing mineral interests; 

where possible, negotiating and securing long-term service company commitments to insure availability of
equipment and services; and 

attempting to create a low cost structure in order to reduce our vulnerability to many of these factors. 

From early 2002 until 2005, our strategic focus was on building our acreage footprint in the
Illinois Basin. BPI was built around the primary strategic objective of acquiring CBM rights
in the Basin. As we began accumulating CBM rights we began testing our acreage to determine
its CBM potential. Having accumulated CBM rights to just over

418,000 acres and conducting extensive testing at our Delta Project ( Delta ), we embarked (in late 2004) on a pilot
production program at Delta. Encouraged by the results, we expanded our drilling and
production activities and began installing the infrastructure necessary to enable us to begin
sales of CBM at Delta.

As our drilling and production operations have grown, we have not abandoned our goal of
adding additional acreage and mineral rights; however, we have new additional goals and we
realize that we must build and add to our organization in other critical areas as well. These
new goals require us to bring in additional capital, resources and people with the technical
and managerial expertise to assist us in achieving these goals. These additional goals
include the following:

developing the in-house capabilities necessary to enable us to meet our
regulatory and reporting obligations to various regulatory agencies, constituencies
and our shareholders; 

raise the capital necessary to achieve our plans and goals; and 

transition BPI from a company focused primarily on acquisition of mineral
rights to a company focused on producing CBM. 

We have registered our stock with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and our stock
is now listed on the American Stock Exchange. These developments brought with them new and
additional regulatory and reporting obligations, which meant we needed the personnel and
resources to meet these obligations. We began addressing this aspect of our business when we
moved our corporate headquarters to the United States from Vancouver, B.C. and brought in our
CFO and General Counsel, George Zilich, and our controller, Randy Elkins, early in 2005. We
will continue to add resources as necessary to meet our obligations in this area.

In September 2005 we sold 18,000,000 shares of our common stock to a limited number of
institutional investors and brought in approximately $28 million of new capital. We are
conscious of the dilution caused to existing shareholders as a result of selling stock. We
raised the amount we felt was required to fund our development plans until the time we are
able to raise capital on more favorable terms.

Our rate of drilling new wells at Delta has slowed due to a dispute with one of the coal
owners. We are eager to step up our drilling program and get to our planned level of
drilling activity of 15 wells per month at our Delta Project. In this regard, we will
continue to attempt to negotiate a mutually satisfactory development plan and lease amendment
with our lessor(s); however, we have initiated a lawsuit in federal court in order to
preserve our rights under the lease covering our Delta Project (see Note 8 of our financial
statements). As of the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, we had 73 wells that were in
production and an additional 22 wells that were drilled, but not yet in production. All of
our productive wells are on our Delta Project. Most of these wells are still in the early
stages of dewatering and represent only a small fraction of our total potential drilling
locations.

We initiated production at Delta because this is where we began our testing program and had
the most data. We made the decision at Delta to invest in a gathering system and the other
infrastructure necessary to begin CBM production and sales. Our Delta Project covers
approximately 50,000 acres in Southern Illinois. The results from our production at the
Delta Project reinforce our belief that the Illinois Basin is not only commercially viable,
but also that the Basin will become a meaningful contributor to the overall supply of natural
gas to the Midwest.

We are currently performing testing at our Montgomery Project. Our CBM rights in the
Montgomery Project cover 239,487 acres in Montgomery, Shelby and Macoupin counties in
Illinois, which are located in the north central part of the Illinois Basin. The coal seams
at our Montgomery Project are some of the thickest found in the Illinois Basin, with some
seams as thick as 10 feet. We are currently testing nine seams that could be commercially
viable. We expect to initiate our second development front at our Montgomery Project in
Spring 2006.

Our plan for our Clinton/Washington project for the current fiscal year is to drill four test
wells in each of the four separate lease blocks constituting this project. We will gain
valuable test data that we believe will assist us in planning our future development of this
acreage.

As a company, we have limited in-house CBM operating and engineering resources. As a result,
in the initial stages of our drilling and production activities, we have utilized outside
contractors to perform most of these activities. We have focused on increasing our internal
engineering and operating resources as a primary goal of BPI over the coming years. In this
regard, we have begun the process of identifying and interviewing candidates with the
technical skills we believe are necessary to help BPI become a world class CBM drilling and
production company. This will take considerable time, but we believe it is necessary in order
to realize the value of the CBM assets we have assembled.

Results of Operations 

Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 Compared to Three Months Ended January 31, 2005  

The following table presents our unaudited financial data for the second quarter of fiscal
year 2006 compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2005:

Revenue    During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, revenue increased $321,470
over the second quarter of fiscal year 2005. We realized our first revenues from the sale of
CBM in January 2005. Net sales of gas (net of royalties) were 27,556 Mcf and our average
realized selling price per Mcf was $11.90 for the second quarter of fiscal year 2006.

Lease operating expense    During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, lease operating
expense increased $300,806 over the second quarter of fiscal year 2005. Lease
operating expenses represent production expenses, consisting primarily of repairs and
maintenance, fuel and electricity, equipment rental and other overhead expenses related to
producing wells. We commenced production toward the end of January 2005 and, thus, incurred
no lease operating expense during the second quarter of fiscal year 2005.

General and administrative expense    General and administrative expense consisted of the
following for the second quarters of fiscal year 2006 and 2005, respectively:

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, salaries and benefits increased $227,412
over the second quarter of fiscal year 2005. The increase was primarily the result of hiring
additional personnel to support our growth, including both a chief financial officer and
controller.

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, stock-based compensation decreased $2,200,777
over the second quarter of fiscal year 2005. No stock options were granted in the second
quarter of fiscal year 2006, whereas options to purchase 2,950,056 shares of common stock
were granted to employees and directors in the second quarter of fiscal year 2005.

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, professional fees increased $292,471 over the
second quarter of fiscal year 2005. The increase was primarily the result of increased
professional fees incurred in connection with SEC filings, American Stock Exchange listing
fees, higher audit related fees and additional legal services.

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, other general and administrative expenses
increased $93,525 over the second quarter of fiscal year 2005, primarily as a result of
increased insurance costs.

Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense    During the second quarter of fiscal year
2006, depreciation, depletion and amortization expense ( DD A ) increased $83,804 over the
second quarter of fiscal year 2005. We compute DD A on capitalized drillings costs and gas
collection equipment using the units-of-production method based on estimates of proved
reserves, and on all other property and equipment using the straight-line method based on
estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 10 years. The increase is primarily due to the fact
that there was very little production in the second quarter of fiscal year 2005.
Additionally, depreciation expense increased due to additions to other support equipment.

Interest income    During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, interest income increased
$265,833 over the second quarter of fiscal year 2005 due to significantly higher average cash
balances during the second quarter of fiscal year 2006. The higher cash balances are the
result of net proceeds of $27,883,954 we received in September 2005 related to the private
placement of our common shares.

Other income    During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, other income increased $134,945
over the second quarter of fiscal year 2005 primarily due to us recognizing a gain of
$127,416 on the sale of our investment in Hite Coalbed Methane, L.L.C. in January 2006.

Deferred income tax benefit    During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, deferred income
tax benefit decreased $292,562 over the second quarter of fiscal year 2005. We recorded a
tax benefit in the United States in the second quarter of fiscal year 2005 to partially
offset a net recorded deferred tax liability at January 31, 2005; however, no

tax benefit was recognized for the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, as the Company had no net deferred tax
liability to offset.

Six Months Ended January 31, 2006 Compared to Six Months Ended January 31, 2005  

The following table presents our unaudited financial data for the first six months of fiscal
year 2006 compared to the first six months of fiscal year 2005:

Revenue    During the first six months of fiscal year 2006, revenue increased $531,164
over the first six months of fiscal year 2005. We realized our first revenues from the sale
of CBM in January 2005. Net sales of gas (net of royalties) were 47,462 Mcf and our average
realized selling price per Mcf was $11.32 for the first six months of fiscal year 2006.

Lease operating expense    During the first six months of fiscal year 2006, lease operating
expense increased $461,610 over the first six months of 2005. Lease operating
expenses represent production expenses, consisting primarily of repairs and maintenance, fuel
and electricity, equipment rental and other overhead expenses related to producing wells. We
commenced production toward the end of January 2005 and, thus, incurred no lease operating
expense during the first six months of fiscal year 2005.

General and administrative expense    General and administrative expense consisted of the
following for the first six months of fiscal year 2006 and 2005, respectively:

During the first six months of fiscal year 2006, salaries and benefits increased
$316,991 over the first six months of fiscal year 2005. The increase was primarily the
result of hiring additional personnel to support our growth, including both a chief financial
officer and controller.

During the first six months of fiscal year 2006, stock-based compensation decreased
$1,803,191 over the first six months of fiscal year 2005. During the first six months of
fiscal year 2006, we granted options to purchase 495,000 shares of our common stock that were
valued at $.80 per option. During the first six months of fiscal year 2005, we granted
options to purchase 2,950,056 shares of our common stock that were valued at $.75 per option.
The award of these options was consistent with our belief that it is necessary to provide
this form of compensation for us to attract and retain qualified individuals.

During the first six months of fiscal year 2006, professional fees increased $617,877 over
the first six months of fiscal year 2005. The increase was primarily the result of increased
professional fees incurred in connection with SEC filings, American Stock Exchange listing
fees, higher audit and audit related fees and additional legal services.

During the first six months of fiscal year 2006, other general and administrative expenses
increased $140,475 over the first six months of fiscal year 2005, primarily as a result of
increased insurance costs.

Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense    During the first six months of fiscal year
2006, depreciation, depletion and amortization expense ( DD A ) increased $155,130 over the
first six months of fiscal year 2005. We compute DD A on capitalized drillings costs and gas
collection equipment using the units-of-production method based on estimates of proved
reserves, and on all other property and equipment using the straight-line method based on
estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 10 years. The increase is primarily due to the fact
that there was very little production in the first six months of fiscal
year 2005. Additionally, depreciation expense increased due to additions to other support
equipment.

Interest income    During the first six months of fiscal year 2006, interest income increased
$397,957 over the first six months of fiscal year 2005 due to significantly higher average
cash balances during the first six months of fiscal year 2006. The higher cash balances are
the result of net proceeds of $27,883,954 we received in September 2005 related to the
private placement of our common shares.

Other income    During the first six months of fiscal year 2006, other income increased
$134,277 over the first six months of fiscal year 2005, primarily due to us recognizing a
gain of $127,416 on the sale of our investment in Hite Coalbed Methane, L.L.C. in January
2006.

Deferred income tax benefit    During the first six months of fiscal year 2006, deferred
income tax benefit decreased $344,717 over the first six months of fiscal year 2005. We
recorded a tax benefit in the United States in the first six months of fiscal year 2005 to
partially offset a net recorded deferred tax liability at January 31, 2005; however, no tax
benefit was recognized for the first six months of fiscal year 2006, as the Company had no
net deferred tax liability to offset.

Financial Condition 

Our primary source of liquidity historically has come from the sale of shares of our common
stock in private placements and the proceeds from the exercise of warrants and options to
acquire our common stock. To date, we have not relied significantly on borrowing to finance
our operations or provide cash. As of January 31, 2006, we had only $333,839 in long-term
notes payable. From July 31, 2002 until January 31, 2006, we raised $43,866,649 from the sale
of our common stock. Additionally, during that same period, we collected $3,730,470 and
$2,118,320 as a result of the exercise of warrants and stock options, respectively. Our
primary use of these funds has been the acquisition, exploration, testing and development of
our CBM properties and rights.

We did not begin to generate revenues from CBM sales until January 2005. Revenues from CBM
sales were $537,505 and $6,341 for the six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Subject to the various risks described in this report, we expect revenue from
the sale of our CBM to increase due to (i) increased production from existing wells as they
proceed through the initial dewatering phase and (ii) additional production generated as a
result of drilling and production from additional wells. However, in view of the fact that we
have very little historical experience of dewatering and gas production in the Illinois
Basin, we can provide no assurance that we will achieve a trend of increased production and
revenue in the future.

In addition, CBM wells typically must go through a lengthy dewatering phase before making any
meaningful contribution to gas production. We estimate that a typical vertical well will
require an average of 18 months to reach peak production. (Note that when we talk about
average dewatering times, the early wells at any of our projects are expected to take longer
to dewater than are later wells that are drilled and tied into our gathering system after a
field or area has been undergoing dewatering by previously drilled wells). The impact on our
cash position is that there will be a delay of up to 18 months between the time we initially
invest in drilling and completing a well and the time when a typical well
will begin to make a meaningful contribution to our cash from operations. Additionally, net
cash generated (used) by operating activities is dependent on a number of factors over which
we have little or no control. These factors include, but are not limited to:

the price of, and demand for, natural gas; 

availability of drilling equipment; 

lease terms; 

availability of sufficient capital resources; and 

the accuracy of production estimates for current and future
wells. 

We had a cash balance of $26,623,707 at January 31, 2006 compared to $7,251,503 at July 31,
2005. The net increase in our cash balance is primarily due to the $27,883,954 of net
proceeds we received from the sale of common stock in a private placement that closed on
September 26, 2005, and $1,644,039 and $379,379 received as a result of the exercise of
warrants and stock options, respectively, during the first six months of fiscal year 2006. We
raised an amount in the private placement we felt was required to fund our development plans
through April 2006. However, because our drilling progress at our Delta Project has slowed
due to a dispute with one of the coal

owners, we now believe our cash balance will be
sufficient to fund the forecasted net cash used by operating activities and capital
expenditures through July 31, 2006. Our revenues and cash balances, however, may not be
sufficient to fund our operations beyond that date. Therefore, in order to fund our
operations after July 31, 2006, we will likely need to raise additional financing. We
currently do not have any specific plans to raise financing in support of our future
operations.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Our unaudited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The
preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates,
judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use
to prepare financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and
assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts and circumstances. Actual amounts
and results could differ from these estimates used by management.

Certain accounting policies that require significant management estimates and are deemed
critical to our results of operations or financial position were discussed in our Annual
Report distributed to our shareholders in December 2005 and in our Form S-1 filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on December 5, 2005.

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements 

Some of the statements contained in this report that are not historical facts, including
statements containing the words  believes,   anticipates,   expects,   intends,   plans, 
 should,   may,   might,   continue  and  estimate  and similar words, constitute
forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. These forward-looking
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause
our actual results, performance or achievements, or the conditions in our industry, on our
properties or in the Illinois Basin, to be materially different from any future results,
performance, achievements or conditions expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements. Some of the factors that could cause actual results or conditions to differ
materially from our expectations, include, but are not limited to, (a) our inability to
retain our acreage rights at our Delta Project or other projects at the expiration of our
lease agreements, due to insufficient CBM production or other reasons, (b) our inability to
generate sufficient income or obtain sufficient financing to fund our operations after July
31, 2006, (c) our failure to accurately forecast CBM production, (d) displacement of our CBM
operations by coal mining operations, which have superior rights in most of our acreage, (e)
our failure to accurately forecast the number of wells that we can drill, (f) a decline in
the prices that we receive for our CBM production, (g) our failure to accurately forecast
operating and capital expenditures and capital needs due to rising costs or different
drilling or production conditions in the field, (h) our inability to attract or retain
qualified personnel with the requisite CBM or other experience, and (i) unexpected economic
and market conditions, in the general economy or the market for natural gas. We caution
readers not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.

Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Commodity Risk  

Our major risk exposure is the commodity pricing applicable to our CBM production. Realized
commodity prices received for our production are primarily driven by the spot prices
attributable to natural gas. The effects of price volatility are expected to continue.

Interest Rate Risk  

All of our debt has fixed interest rates, so consequently we are not exposed to cash flow or
fair value risk from market interest rate changes on this debt.

Financial Instruments  

Our financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and
long-term notes payable. The carrying amount of cash equivalents, accounts receivable and
accounts payable approximate fair market value due to the highly liquid nature of these
short-term instruments.

Inflation and Changes in Prices  

The general level of inflation affects our costs. Salaries and other general and
administrative expenses are impacted by inflationary trends and the supply and demand of
qualified professionals and professional services. Inflation and price fluctuations affect
the costs associated with exploring for and producing CBM, which has a material impact on our
financial performance.

Item 4. Controls and Procedures 

As of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company conducted an evaluation,
under the supervision and with the participation of the principal executive officer and
principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (the  Exchange Act )). Based on this evaluation, the principal executive officer and
principal financial officer have concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and
procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company
in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules
and forms.

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting identified in
connection with the evaluation required by Rule 13a-15(d) of the Exchange Act that occurred
during our last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1. Legal Proceedings 

On April 3, 2001 the Company entered into an Oil, Gas and Coalbed Methane Gas Lease ( Lease )
with American Premier Underwriters, Inc. and AFC Coal Properties, Inc. (collectively, the
 Lessors ).

The Lease has an initial term of five years that expires on April 3, 2006; however, the term
is extended as to the 320 acre tract that surrounds each well so long as CBM is produced from
such tract providing a royalty payment of at least $1.00 per acre per month; provided,
however, after the initial five year term, if aggregate royalties do not exceed $42,000 in
any month, the Lease shall terminate.

In August 2005, the original Lessors transferred, subject to the Lease, certain of their
rights under the Lease, including certain of their rights in and to the CBM to Colt, LLC and
Peabody Land Holdings, LLC (collectively, the  Transferees ). We believe that at least one
of the Transferees, Colt, LLC, has taken steps that have interfered with

our ability to carry out our development plans and generate the royalties necessary to extend the Lease (including
the establishment of additional wells prior to the April 3, 2006 deadline).

On March 15, 2006, we filed a complaint against the Lessors and Transferees alleging (i)
tortious interference with business relations and (ii) breach of contract. We are seeking a
preliminary and permanent injunction, declaratory judgment and unspecified monetary damages.
The complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
Ohio.

We believe that we should be successful in extending the term of the lease as to existing
wells and certain other areas subject to the Lease where we believe the Lessors and
Transferees have interfered with our ability to establish wells prior to the April 3, 2006
deadline. However, there exists a reasonable possibility that we will be unable to extend
the Lease as to either or both of the existing wells or additional areas where the Lessors
and Transferees have interfered with our establishment of wells. The effect of the loss of
all of our acreage under the Lease may result in a write-down of capitalized net oil and gas
and other properties in an amount up to approximately $22 million. The effect of the loss of
only our non-producing acreage (those areas in which wells had not yet been established) may
result in a write-down of capitalized net oil and gas and other properties in an amount up to
approximately $4 million.

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

None.

Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities 

None.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

BPI Energy Holdings, Inc. held its Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on December 13,
2005. As described in the Proxy Statement/Information Circular for the Annual Meeting, the
following actions were taken:

(a) 
       
     Election of Directors. The shareholders voted in favor of electing the following
persons as Directors: 

(b) 
       
     Approval of the BPI Industries Inc. 2005 Omnibus Stock Plan. The shareholders
approved the BPI Industries Inc. 2005 Omnibus Stock Plan. 

(c) 
       
     Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. The shareholders
ratified the appointment of Meaden   Moore, Ltd. as the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm for 2006. 

Item 5. Other Information 

None.

Item 6. Exhibits 

31.1 
       
     Section 302 Certification By Chief Executive Officer 

31.2 
       
     Section 302 Certification By Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 

32.1 
       
     Section 906 Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

BPI INDUSTRIES INC.  

DATE: March 15, 2006  
     /s/ James G. Azlein

James G. Azlein,  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/ George J. Zilich

George J. Zilich,  

Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel  

<EX-31.1>
 2
 l19148aexv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1 302 CEO CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

I, James G. Azlein, certify that:

1) 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of BPI Industries Inc. (the  registrant  

2) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report
is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

(c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant role in
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 15, 2006

/s/ James G. Azlein

By: James G. Azlein,  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 l19148aexv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2 302 CFO CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATION BY PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER 

I, George J. Zilich, certify that:

1) 
       
     I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of BPI Industries Inc. (the  registrant  

2) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report
is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

(c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant role in
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 15, 2006

/s/ George J. Zilich

By: George J. Zilich,  

Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 l19148aexv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1 906 CEO & CFO CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the filing of the Quarterly Report of BPI Industries Inc. (the  Company )
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on or about the date hereof (the  Report ), each of the undersigned officers of the
Company certifies pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to such officer s knowledge:

(1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations
of the Company. 

Dated: March 15, 2006  
     /s/ James G. Azlein

James G. Azlein,  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/ George J. Zilich

George J. Zilich, 
Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel  

A signed original of this written statement has been provided to the Company and will be
retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request. 

</EX-32.1>

