<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060206_10-Q_edgar_data_203527_0001104659-06-006274_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1194136</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>210780</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>744823</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>36</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-006274.hdr.sgml : 20060206
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060206172522
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-006274
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051230
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060206
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060206

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000203527
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS [3845]
		IRS NUMBER:				942359345
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0905

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07598
		FILM NUMBER:		06582943

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3100 HANSEN WAY
		CITY:			PALO ALTO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94304-1000
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6504934000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3050 HANSEN WAY
		STREET 2:		MAIL STOP E 224
		CITY:			PALO ALTO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94304-1000

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	VARIAN ASSOCIATES INC /DE/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	VARIAN DELAWARE INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19761123

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 QKxhPIMHDwn7cl9a1Q31suJNaz6ji5TJwfug60nIvpwmvEWIhrplktoZyBwpwK6N
 q/8Sx0hvTGFG1goQq8jLag==

 0001104659-06-006274.txt : 20060206

10-Q
 1
 a06-4284_110q.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D)

UNITED
STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-Q   

VARIAN MEDICAL
SYSTEMS, INC.   

  (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes        No   o  

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer.  See definition of  accelerated filer and
large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  

Large
  accelerated filer      

Accelerated
  filer   o  

Non-accelerated
  filer   o  

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes    o   No      

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of
each of the issuer s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable
date: 132,119,612 shares of Common Stock, par value $1 per share, outstanding
as of January 27, 2006.  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.   

FORM 10-Q for the Quarter Ended December 30,
2005   

INDEX   

Part I.    

Financial
  Information    

3    

Item 1.   

Financial Statements   

3   

Condensed Consolidated
  Statements of Earnings   

3   

Condensed Consolidated
  Balance Sheets   

4   

Condensed Consolidated
  Statements of Cash Flows   

5   

Notes to the Condensed
  Consolidated Financial Statements   

6   

Item 2.   

Management s Discussion and
  Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

20   

Item 3.   

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

35   

Item 4.   

Controls and Procedures   

36   

Part
  II.    

Other
  Information    

37    

Item 1.   

Legal Proceedings   

37   

Item 1A.   

Risk Factors   

37   

Item 2.   

Unregistered
  Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds   

51   

Item 3.   

Defaults
  Upon Senior Securities   

51   

Item 4.   

Submission
  of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

51   

Item 5.   

Other Information   

51   

Item 6.   

Exhibits   

52   

Signatures   

53   

Index to Exhibits   

54   

2   

PART I   

FINANCIAL
INFORMATION   

Item 1. Financial Statements   

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS    

   (Unaudited)   

(1) Includes
  the following amounts related to share-based compensation expense of stock
  options and employee stock purchases:  

Cost of
  revenues - Product  

$  

420  

$  

Cost of
  revenues - Service contracts and other  

616  

Research and
  development  

944  

Selling,
  general and administrative  

6,051  

Taxes on
  earnings  

(2,650  

)  

Total  

$  

5,381  

$  

See accompanying notes to the
consolidated financial statements.   

3  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   

   (Unaudited)   

(1) Amounts as of September 30,
2005 have been derived from audited financial statements as of that date.  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.   

4  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

   (Unaudited)   

(1) The Company has adjusted gross purchases
and sales of auction rate securities as investments in the condensed
consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended December 31,
2004 to conform to the current period s presentation as described in Note 2.  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
statements.   

5  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   

   (Unaudited)   

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES   

Description
of Business    

Varian
Medical Systems, Inc. ( VMS ) and subsidiaries (collectively, the  Company )
designs, manufactures, sells and services advanced equipment and software
products for treating cancer with radiation. The Company also designs,
manufactures, sells and services high quality, cost-effective X-ray tubes for
original equipment manufacturers, replacement X-ray tubes; flat panel imaging
products for digital X-ray image capture (commonly referred to as flat panel
detectors) for medical, scientific and industrial applications; and linear
accelerators for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening,
border protection and nondestructive examination of metallic structures.  

Fiscal
Year    

The
Company s fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Friday nearest
September 30.  Fiscal year 2006
is the 52-week period ending September 29, 2006, and fiscal year 2005
was the 52-week period ended September 30, 2005. The fiscal quarters ended December
30, 2005 and December 31, 2004 were both 13-week periods.  

Basis
of Presentation    

The condensed consolidated financial
statements have been prepared by the Company     pursuant
to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial
statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. These
condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes are
unaudited and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and the notes thereto included in the Company s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005. In the opinion of management,
the condensed consolidated financial statements herein include adjustments
(consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair
presentation of the Company s financial position as of December 30, 2005 and September
30, 2005, results of operations for the three months ended December 30, 2005
and December 31, 2004, and cash flows for the three months ended December 30,
2005 and December 31, 2004. The results of operations for the three months
ended December 30, 2005 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results
to be expected for the full fiscal year or any future periods.   

Use
of Estimates    

The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ
from these estimates.  

Share-Based Compensation Expense    

Effective October 1, 2005,
the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123
(revised 2004),   Share-Based Payment   ( SFAS 123(R) ),
which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all
share-based payment awards made to employees and directors, including stock
options, employee stock purchases related to the Varian Medical Systems, Inc. Employee
Stock Purchase Plan (the  Employee Stock Purchase Plan ) and restricted stock based
on their fair values. SFAS 123(R) supersedes Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25,   Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees   ( APB 25 ), which the Company previously
followed in accounting for stock-based awards. In March 2005, the SEC issued   Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107   ( SAB 107 ) to
provide guidance on SFAS 123(R). The Company has applied SAB 107 in its
adoption of SFAS 123(R). See Note 11 for a detailed discussion of SFAS 123(R).  

On November 10, 2005, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3
  Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax
Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards  . The Company has elected to
adopt the  short-cut  method provided in the FASB Staff Position for
calculating the tax effects of share-based compensation pursuant to SFAS
123(R). The  short-cut  method includes simplified methods to establish the
beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital pool ( APIC pool ) related
to the tax effects of share-based compensation, and to determine the  

6  

subsequent impact on the APIC pool and the
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of the tax effects of
share-based compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS
123(R).  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements    

In December 2004, the  FASB
issued Staff Position ( FSP ) No. 109-2,   Accounting
and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within
the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004   ( FSP 109-2 ), which
provides guidance under SFAS No. 109,   Accounting for Income
Taxes   ( SFAS 109 ), with respect to recording the potential impact
of the repatriation provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Jobs
Creation Act ) on enterprises  income tax expense and deferred tax
liability.  The Jobs Creation Act was
enacted on October 22, 2004.  FSP
109-2 states that an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting
period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Jobs Creation Act on its plan
for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying
SFAS 109.  The Company has not yet
completed its evaluation of the impact of the repatriation provisions but
currently expects to be in a position to finalize its assessment by the third
quarter of fiscal year 2006.  Based on
the Company s analysis to date, however, it is reasonably possible that it may
repatriate up to $175 million, with a related tax liability of up to $16
million.  

Reclassifications    

Certain
financial statement items have been reclassified to conform to the current year s
format. These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported net
earnings.  

2.
MARKETABLE SECURITIES   

The carrying
amounts of marketable securities, which are all municipal bonds, are reflected as
follows:   

The Company has historically
classified auction rate securities as cash and cash equivalents if the period
between interest rate resets was 90 days or less, which was based on the
Company s ability to either liquidate its holdings or roll its investment over
to the next reset period. Based on the Company s re-evaluation of the maturity
dates associated with the underlying bonds, the Company has concluded it is
appropriate to classify its auction rate securities, previously classified as
cash and cash equivalents, as short-term marketable securities in the Condensed
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  In
addition, the Company has reported gross purchases and sales of such auction
rate securities as investments in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows for the three-month period ended December 31, 2004 to conform to the
current period s presentation.  This
change in classification does not affect cash flows from operations or from
financing activities in the Company s previously reported Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows, or the Company s previously reported Consolidated
Statements of Earnings for any period.  

3.
INVENTORIES   

The components of inventories are as
follows:   

7   

4.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS   

Pursuant to SFAS No. 142,   Goodwill and Intangible Asse  ts (  SFAS 142 ), the Company
performs an annual impairment test for goodwill and intangible assts with
indefinite useful lives. The impairment test for goodwill is a two-step
process. Step one consists of a comparison of the fair value of a reporting
unit with its carrying amount, including the goodwill allocated to each
reporting unit. If the carrying amount is in excess of the fair value, step two
requires the comparison of the implied fair value of the reporting unit with
the carrying amount of the reporting unit s goodwill. Any excess of the
carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill over the implied fair value of
the reporting unit s goodwill will be recorded as an impairment loss.  The impairment test for intangible
assets with indefinite useful lives consists of a comparison of fair value to
carrying value, with any excess of carrying value over fair value being
recorded as an impairment loss. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are
amortized using the straight-line method over their useful lives, which range
from approximately two to twenty years.  

The Company performed its annual SFAS 142 goodwill impairment
assessment for its three reporting units in the fourth quarter of fiscal year
2005 and determined that there was no impairment. However, the Company could be
required to record impairment charges in future periods if indicators of
potential impairment exist.  

The
following table reflects the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization
of the Company s intangible assets included in  Other assets  on the Condensed
Consolidated Balance Sheets:  

Amortization expense for
intangible assets required to be amortized under SFAS 142 was $1.5 million and
$1.3 million for the three months ended December
30, 2005 and December 31, 2004,
respectively.  The Company
estimates amortization expense on a straight-line basis for the remaining nine
months of fiscal year 2006, fiscal years 2007 through 2010 and thereafter, to
be as follows (in millions): $4.4, $4.5, $3.1, $2.4, $2.0 and $1.9.  

The following table reflects
goodwill allocated to the Company s reportable segments:  

5. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS   

In fiscal years 1999 and 2000, VMS invested a total of
$5 million in a three member consortium for a 20% ownership interest in
dpiX Holding LLC ( dpiX Holding ), which in turn invested $25 million for an
80.1% ownership interest in dpiX LLC ( dpiX ), a supplier of amorphous silicon
based thin-film transistor arrays ( flat panels ) for the Company s X-ray
Products  flat panel detector products and for its Oncology System s
PortalVision imaging systems. During the three months ended December 30, 2005
and December 31, 2004, the Company purchased flat panels from dpiX totaling
approximately $4.5 million and $2.0 million, respectively, which are included
as a component of  Inventories  in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
and  Cost of revenues-Product  in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings
for such periods.  VMS had the right to
appoint one manager of the five person board of managers and the investment was
accounted for under the equity method. 
In accordance with the dpiX Holding agreement, net losses were to be
allocated to the other two  

8  

members, in succession, until their capital accounts
equaled zero, before being allocated to VMS. 
The dpiX Holding agreement also provided that net profits were to be
allocated to the other two members, in succession, until their capital accounts
equaled the net losses previously allocated, then to the three members in
accordance with their ownership interests.  

In September 2004, VMS acquired another member s 20%
ownership interest in dpiX Holding for $1 million.  As a result, VMS has the right to appoint two
managers of the five person board of managers and its ownership interest in
dpiX Holding increased to 40%, with the remaining 60% being held by the other
original member.  When VMS acquired this
additional 20% ownership interest, the capital account of the selling member
was nearly zero because it was the first in the consortium to be allocated
losses.  However, dpiX Holding has been
profitable since VMS acquired the additional 20% ownership interest.  As a result, VMS was the first to be
allocated net profits to recover previously allocated losses and recorded in the
three months ended December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004 income on equity
investment in dpiX Holding of $0.8 million and $0.6 million, respectively,
which is included in  Selling, general and administrative  expenses in the Condensed
Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  

In accordance with the dpiX agreement, the member that
owns the other 19.9% ownership interest in dpiX had the right to sell back to
dpiX on dpiX s last business day in December 2004, 2005 and 2006, all of that
member s ownership interest for $5 million if dpiX had not become a publicly
traded company as of the last business day in December 2004.  In December 2004, that member exercised its
right to sell back to dpiX its 19.9% ownership interest. On each of December 22,
2005 and December 24, 2004, dpiX repurchased from that member a 7.96% ownership
interest for a payment of $2 million (in aggregate, a 15.92% interest for $4
million).  The remaining 3.98% membership
interest will be repurchased by dpiX in December 2006.  According to the dpiX agreement, the repurchased
ownership interest was allocated to the two member consortium.  As a result, VMS s ownership interest in dpiX
has increased to 38.4% as of December 30, 2005.  

In December 2004, VMS agreed to loan $2 million to dpiX
in four separate installments, bearing interest at prime rate plus 1% per
annum.  The principal balance is due and
payable to VMS in twelve equal quarterly installments beginning in October
2006; interest is payable in full according to the same quarterly schedule, but
beginning in April 2005; and  the entire principal balance, together with
accrued and unpaid interest thereon and all other related amounts payable thereunder,
is fully due and payable on July 10, 2009.  As of December 30, 2005, the note receivable
from dpiX totaled $2 million which is primarily included in  Other assets  in
the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

6. PRODUCT WARRANTY   

The Company provides for estimated future costs of warranty obligations
in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 45,   Guarantor s
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others  , which requires an entity to
disclose and recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation it
assumes upon issuance of a guarantee. 
The Company warrants most of its products for a specific period of time,
usually one year, against material defects. 
For software products, the Company warrants against material defects for
usually three months.  The Company
provides for the estimated future costs of warranty obligations in cost of
revenues when the related revenues are recognized.  The accrued warranty costs represent the best
estimate at the time of sale of the total costs that the Company will incur to
repair or replace product parts that fail while still under warranty.  The amount of accrued estimated warranty
costs obligation for established products is primarily based on historical
experience as to product failures adjusted for current information on repair
costs.  For new products, estimates will
include historical experience of similar products, as well as reasonable
allowance for start-up expenses.  On a
quarterly basis, the Company reviews the accrued warranty costs and updates the
historical warranty cost trends.  

9  

The following table reflects
the change in the Company s accrued product warranty during the three months
ended December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004:  

7. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND
HEDGING ACTIVITIES   

The Company has significant
transactions denominated in foreign currencies and addresses certain financial
exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use
of derivative financial instruments. The
Company sells products throughout the world, often in the currency of the
customer s country, and typically hedges most of these firmly committed foreign
currency sales orders. These firmly committed foreign currency sales orders are
hedged using forward exchange contracts. The Company enters into foreign
currency forward exchange contracts primarily to reduce the effects of
fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. The forward exchange contracts
range from one to twelve months in original maturity. As of December 30, 2005,
the Company did not have any forward exchange contracts with an original
maturity greater than one year.  As
international deliveries may extend beyond twelve months, the Company may hedge
beyond twelve months in the future.  The
Company does not hold derivative instruments for speculative or trading
purposes.  The Company accounts for its
hedges of foreign currency denominated sales orders (firm commitments) as fair
value hedges as prescribed by SFAS No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  ,
as amended by SFAS No. 149,   Amendment
of SFAS No. 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   ( SFAS 133 ).  For the three months ended December 30, 2005,
there were no material gains or losses due to hedge ineffectiveness. At December
30, 2005, the Company had foreign exchange forward contracts for fair value hedges
with notional values to sell and purchase $341.8 million and $4.4 million,
respectively, in various foreign currencies. At December 30, 2005, all open
forward exchange contracts were deemed effective.  

The Company also hedges balance sheet exposures from its various
foreign subsidiaries and business units. 
The Company enters into monthly foreign currency forward exchange
contracts to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on
assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar
functional currency. These monthly hedges of foreign-currency-denominated
assets and liabilities do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under
SFAS 133. For derivative instruments not designated as hedging
instruments, changes in their fair values are recognized in  Selling, general
and administrative expenses  in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings.   Changes in the values of these hedging
instruments are offset by changes in the values of foreign currency denominated
assets and liabilities.      Variations from the forecasted
foreign currency assets or liabilities, coupled with a significant currency
movement, may result in a material gain or loss if the hedges are not
effectively offsetting the change in value of the foreign currency asset or
liability.  

8.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES   

Commitments    

Following a decision by Mitsubishi Electric Co. ( MELCO ) to exit the
radiotherapy equipment and service business and its desire to do so in a
nondisruptive manner with an established radiotherapy equipment service
provider, the Company  entered into two separate transactions with MELCO contemporaneously
whereby  (i) the Company purchased
MELCO s radiotherapy equipment service business (the  Service Business ) to
service MELCO s existing customers and (ii) the Company formed a three-year
joint venture ( JVA ) in Japan with MELCO that was effective as of
February 3, 2004. 

On February 2, 2004, the Company s Japanese subsidiary ( VMS KK ) 
 purchased the Service Business
in Japan and certain other Asian and South American countries for 2.0 billion
Japanese Yen, or US$19.1 million, plus a contingent  earn out  payable to MELCO
at the end of the JVA period.   This  earn
out  payment is equivalent to 100% of the net profits or losses of the
Service Business for a three-year period. 
The Company accounted for the purchase of the Service Business as an 

10  

acquisition and 100% of the profits and
losses from VMS KK are reflected in the Company s consolidated results.  The Company accounts for the  earn out 
payment equivalent to 100% of the net profits or losses of the Service Business
during the three-year period as an adjustment to the purchase price of the
acquisition at the end of the JVA period. 
For the period from February 2, 2004 to December 30, 2005, net profits
for the Service Business totaled approximately $2.5 million.  Assuming no future profits or losses, $2.5
million would be payable to MELCO at the end of the three-year JVA period. In
addition to purchasing the Service Business, the Company entered into a
distributor arrangement with MELCO to sell MELCO radiotherapy equipment products
through VMS KK for two years to allow customers interested in purchasing
MELCO radiotherapy equipment products to purchase such products for a limited
period of time .  The Company
accounts for any payment it may pay to MELCO computed on the basis of 50% of
the net profits from the sale of MELCO radiotherapy equipment products during
the JVA s first two years as a VMS KK period expense.  For the period from February 2, 2004 to
December 30, 2005, the Company did not sell any MELCO radiotherapy equipment products.  

The JVA was accomplished through MELCO s
purchase on February 3, 2004 of a 35% ownership interest in VMS KK  for
1.4 billion Japanese Yen, or US$13.5 million. 
During the three-year JVA period, MELCO is not entitled to any profits
or losses generated by VMS KK.  However,
MELCO is entitled to elect one of the five members of VMS KK s board of directors.  At the end of the three-year JVA period,
MELCO is required to unconditionally sell and the Company is required to
unconditionally repurchase MELCO s 35% ownership interest in VMS KK at the
original sale price (1.4 billion Japanese Yen) and there are no settlement
alternatives to such a repurchase obligation. 
The Company has accounted for MELCO s 35% ownership interest as a
mandatorily redeemable financial instrument, which is included in  Long-term
accrued expenses and other  in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Contingencies    

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or third
parties have named the Company as a potentially responsible party under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as
amended ( CERCLA ), at eight sites where the Company, as Varian Associates,
Inc., is alleged to  have shipped
manufacturing waste for recycling or disposal. 
In addition, the Company is overseeing environmental cleanup projects
and, as applicable, reimbursing third parties for cleanup activities under the
direction of, or in consultation with, federal, state and/or local agencies at
certain current VMS or former Varian Associates, Inc. facilities (including
facilities disposed of in connection with the Company s sale of its electron
devices business during 1995 and the sale of its thin film systems business
during 1997). Under the terms of the agreement governing the distribution of
the shares (the  spin-offs ) of Varian, Inc. ( VI ) and Varian Semiconductor
Equipment Associates, Inc. ( VSEA ), by the Company in 1999, VI and VSEA are
each obligated to indemnify the Company for one-third of these environmental
cleanup costs (after adjusting for any insurance proceeds realized or tax
benefits recognized by the Company). The Company spent $0.4 million
(net of amounts borne by VI and VSEA) during both the three months ended December
30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, on environmental investigation, cleanup and
third-party claim costs.  

For one of these sites and
facilities, various uncertainties make it difficult to assess the likelihood
and scope of further cleanup activities or to estimate the future costs of such
 activities. In addition,
various uncertainties make it difficult to estimate the likelihood or cost of
certain third-party claims, project
management costs and legal costs. As of December 30, 2005, the Company nonetheless estimated that the
Company s future exposure (net of VI s and VSEA s indemnification obligations)
to complete the cleanup projects for these activities ranged in the aggregate
from $3.7 million to $7.1 million. The time frame over which the
Company expects to complete the cleanup projects varies, ranging up to
approximately 30 years as of December 30, 2005. Management believes that no amount in the foregoing range of estimated
future costs is more probable of being incurred than any other amount in such
range and therefore accrued $3.7 million as of December 30, 2005. The amount accrued has not been discounted to
present value due to the uncertainties that make it difficult to develop a best
estimate of future costs.  

As to other sites  and facilities, the Company has gained sufficient
knowledge based upon formal agreements with other parties defining the Company s
future liabilities or formal cleanup plans for these sites that have either
been approved by or completed in accordance with the requirements of the state
or federal environmental agency with jurisdiction over the site to better
estimate the scope and costs of future cleanup activities. As of December
30, 2005, the Company estimated that the
Company s future exposure (net of VI s and VSEA s indemnification obligations)
to complete the cleanup projects, including reimbursements of third-party s
claims, for these sites and facilities ranged in the aggregate from $10.3 million
to $45.6 million. The time frame over which these cleanup projects are
expected to be completed varies with each site and facility, ranging from
approximately 10 years to approximately 30 years as of December 30, 2005. As to each of these sites  

11  

and facilities, management
determined that a particular amount within the range of estimated costs was a
better estimate of the future environmental liability than any other amount
within the range, and that the amount and timing of these future costs were
reliably determinable. The best estimate within the range was $18.6 million
at  December 30, 2005. The Company
accordingly accrued $12.5 million, which represents its best estimate of the
future costs of $18.6 million discounted at 4%, net of inflation. This accrual
is in addition to the $3.7 million described in the preceding paragraph.  

The
foregoing amounts are only estimates of
anticipated future environmental-related costs to cover the known cleanup
projects, and the amounts actually spent may be greater or less than such
estimates. The aggregate range of cost estimates reflects various uncertainties
inherent in many environmental cleanup activities, the large number of sites
and facilities involved and the amount of third-party claims. The Company
believes that most of these cost ranges will narrow as cleanup activities
progress. The Company believes that its reserves are adequate, but as the scope
of its obligations becomes more clearly defined, these reserves (and the
associated indemnification obligations of VI and VSEA) may be modified and
related charges/credits against earnings may be made.  

Although any ultimate liability arising from
environmental-related matters described herein could result in significant
expenditures that, if aggregated and assumed to occur within a single fiscal
year would be material to the Company s consolidated financial statements, the
likelihood of such occurrence is considered  remote. Based on information currently available to
management and its best assessment of the ultimate amount and timing of
environmental-related events (and assuming VI and VSEA satisfy their
indemnification obligations), management believes that the costs of these
environmental-related matters are not reasonably likely to have a material
adverse effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Company in any
fiscal year.  

The
Company evaluates its liability for environmental-related investigation and
cleanup costs in light of the liability and financial strength of potentially
responsible parties and insurance companies with respect to which the Company
believes that it has rights to contribution, indemnity and/or reimbursement (in
addition to the obligations of VI and VSEA). Claims for recovery of
environmental investigation and cleanup costs already incurred, and to be
incurred in the future, have been asserted against various insurance companies
and other third parties. The Company receives certain cash payments in the form
of settlements and judgments from defendants, its insurers and other third
parties from time to time. The Company has also reached an agreement with another
insurance company under which the insurance company has agreed to pay a portion
of the Company s past and future environmental-related expenditures, and the
Company therefore included a $3.2 million receivable in  Other assets  at December
30, 2005. The Company believes that this receivable is recoverable because it
is based on a binding, written settlement agreement with a solvent and
financially viable insurance company and the insurance company has in the past paid
the claims that the Company has made.  

The Company is also involved in other legal
proceedings arising in the ordinary course of its business. While there can be
no assurances as to the ultimate outcome of any litigation involving the
Company, management does not believe any pending legal proceeding will result
in a judgment or settlement that would have a material adverse effect on the
Company s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

12  

9. RETIREMENT PLANS   

The Company s net defined benefit and post-retirement benefit costs
were composed of the following:  

The Company made contributions to the defined benefit plans of $0.5 million
during the three months ended December 30, 2005. The Company currently expects
total contributions for fiscal year 2006 will be approximately $3.7 million.  The Company made contributions to the
post-retirement benefit plans of $0.2 million during the three months
ended December 30, 2005. The Company currently expects total contributions for
fiscal year 2006 will be approximately $0.5 million.  

10. STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY   

Stock
Repurchase Program    

On November 21, 2005, the
Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase by
the Company of up to 6,000,000 shares of its common stock through December 31,
2006 in addition to the 1,500,000 shares of common stock that had been available
for repurchase under the previously approved program as of September 30, 2005.  During the three months ended December 30,
2005, the Company paid $39.3 million to repurchase 895,100 shares of its
common stock.  All shares that have been
repurchased have been retired.  As of December
30, 2005, the Company could repurchase up to 6,604,900 shares of its common
stock.  The authorization to repurchase
604,900 shares of the Company s common stock under the previously approved
program expired on December 31, 2005.  

Comprehensive Earnings    

Comprehensive
earnings for the three months ended December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004
equaled the reported net earnings.  

11.  EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS   

During
fiscal year 1991, VMS adopted the stockholder-approved Omnibus Stock Plan
(the  Omnibus Plan ) under which shares of common stock can be issued to officers,
directors, key employees and consultants. The Omnibus Plan was amended and
restated as of the spin-offs.  The
maximum number of shares that could have been issued was limited to twenty
million shares.  Stock options granted
under the Omnibus Plan have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of
the underlying stock on the grant date and expire no later than ten years from
the grant date. Options granted under the Omnibus Plan before
November 2000 were generally exercisable in cumulative installments of one-third
each year, commencing one year following date of grant.  Options granted after November 2000 were
exercisable in the following manner: the first one-third one year from the date
of grant, with the remainder vesting monthly during the following two-year
period.  No further awards may be made
under the Omnibus Plan.  

In
November 2000, VMS adopted the 2000 Stock Option Plan (the  2000 Plan ), which
was intended to supplement the Omnibus Plan. 
The maximum number of shares that could have been issued was limited to
twelve million shares.  The 2000 Plan is
similar to the Omnibus Plan in all material respects, with the exception that
shares available for awards under the  

13  

2000
Plan may not be issued to directors or officers of VMS.  Stock options granted under the 2000 Plan are
exercisable for the first one-third of the option shares one year from the date
of grant, with the remainder vesting monthly during the following two-year
period.  Other terms of the 2000 Plan
mirror the Omnibus Plan.  No further
awards may be made under the 2000 Plan.  

In February 2005, VMS s stockholders approved the 2005 Omnibus Stock
Plan (the  2005 Plan ), which provides a reserve for the grant of equity
incentive awards, including stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation
rights, performance units, restricted stock units and performance shares equal
to (a) four million shares, plus (b) the number of shares authorized for
issuance, but never issued, under the Omnibus Plan and the 2000 Plan, plus (c) the
number of shares subject to awards previously granted under the Omnibus Plan
and 2000 Plan that terminate, expire, or lapse and (d) amounts granted in
substitution of options in connection with certain transactions.  For purposes of the total number of shares
available for grant under the 2005 Plan, any shares that are subject to awards
of stock options or stock appreciation rights shall be counted against the
available-for-grant limit as one share for every one share issued, and any
shares issued in connection with awards other than stock options and stock
appreciation rights shall be counted against the available-for-grant limit as
three shares for every one share issued. All awards may be subject to restrictions
on transferability and continued employment as determined by the Compensation
and Management Development Committee.  

In November 2005, the Company s
Board of Directors approved changes in the employee service requirement for
grants of non-qualified stock options made on or after November 17, 2005 under
the 2005 Plan to employees who qualify for retirement at the time of
termination from the Company.  Under the
new requirements, if an employee retires within one year of the grant date, the
number of shares granted shall be adjusted proportionally by the time during
such one-year period that the employee remained an active, full-time employee
of the Company (based upon a 365 day year). 
The revised number of shares subject to the stock option would continue to
vest in accordance with the original vesting schedule, and the remaining shares
cancelled as of the date of retirement.  Under
the old requirements, if an employee retired within one year of the grant date,
all shares subject to the option grant would continue to vest in accordance
with the original vesting schedule.  

Effective October 1, 2005,
the Company adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective transition
method, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense
for all share-based payment awards made to the Company s employees and
directors including stock options and employee stock purchases related to the Employee
Stock Purchase Plan and restricted stock based on fair values.  The Company s financial statements as
of and for the three months ended December 30, 2005 reflect the impact of
SFAS 123(R). In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, the
Company s financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to
reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS 123(R).  Share-based
compensation expense recognized is based on the value of the portion of
share-based payment awards that is ultimately expected to vest. Share-based
compensation expense recognized in the Company s Condensed Consolidated Statement
of Earnings during the three months ended December 30, 2005 included
compensation expense for share-based payment awards granted prior to, but not
yet vested as of, September 30, 2005 based on the grant date fair value
estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS 123 and
compensation expense for the share-based payment awards granted subsequent to
September 30, 2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). In conjunction with the adoption
of SFAS 123(R), the Company elected to attribute the value of share-based
compensation to expense using the straight-line method, which was previously
used for its pro forma information required under SFAS 123.  Share-based compensation expense related
to stock options and employee stock purchases was $8.0 million for the three
months ended December 30, 2005. During the three months ended
December 31, 2004, there was no share-based compensation expense related
to stock options and employee stock purchases recognized under the intrinsic
value method in accordance with APB 25. 
During the three months ended December 30, 2005 and December 31,
2004, share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock was $0.1
million and $0.4 million, respectively,
which would have been recorded under APB 25. 

Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R),
the Company elected to value its share-based payment awards granted beginning
in fiscal year 2006 using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model (the  Black-Scholes
model ), which was previously used for its pro forma information required under
SFAS 123. The Black-Scholes model was developed for use in estimating the fair
value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully
transferable. The Black-Scholes model requires the input of certain
assumptions. VMS s options and the option component of the Employee Stock Purchase
Plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those of traded
options, and changes in the assumptions can materially affect the fair value
estimates.  

14  

The fair value of options granted and the option component
of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan shares were estimated at the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted
average assumptions:   

The expected term of stock options represents
the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain
outstanding. The expected term is based on the observed and expected time to
post-vesting exercise and forfeitures of option by employees. Upon the adoption
of SFAS 123(R), the Company determined the expected term of stock options based
on the demographic grouping of employees and retirement eligibility.  Prior to October 1, 2005, the Company
determined the expected term of stock options based on the demographic grouping
of employees.  Upon the adoption of SFAS 123(R),
the Company used a combination of historical and implied volatility ( blended
volatility ) in deriving its expected volatility assumption as allowed under
SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107.  Implied volatility was derived based on six-month
traded options on VMS s common stock. 
Prior to October 1, 2005, the Company used its historical stock price
volatility in accordance with SFAS 123 for purposes of its pro forma
information. The selection of the blended volatility approach was based upon
the availability of traded options on VMS s stock and the Company s assessment
that blended volatility is more representative of future stock price trends
than just historical volatility alone. The risk-free interest rate assumption
is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of VMS s stock
options. The expected dividend assumption is based on the Company s history and
expectation of dividend payouts.  

As share-based compensation
expense recognized in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the
three months ended December 30, 2005 is based on awards ultimately expected to
vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) requires
forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in
subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
Forfeitures were estimated based on historical experience. In the Company s pro
forma information required under SFAS 123 for the periods prior to October 1,
2005, the Company accounted for forfeitures as they occurred.  

The effect of recording share-based
compensation expense for the three months ended December 30, 2005 is as follows:  

15  

For the
three months ended December 30, 2005, total share-based compensation expense
recognized in earnings before taxes was $8 million and the total related
recognized tax benefit was $2.6 million. Total share-based compensation expense
capitalized as part of inventory for the three months ended December 30, 2005
was $0.5 million.  

Activity under the Omnibus Plan, the 2000 Plan and the 2005 Plan (together,
the  Employee Stock Plans ) is presented below:  

(1) During the three months ended December 30, 2005, VMS
issued 201,701 shares (net of 161,931 shares withheld for employees  taxes)
under the Omnibus Plan and the 2000 Plan pursuant to restricted performance
shares awarded to several senior executives in fiscal year 2001 and which
vested in November 2005. VMS also granted to an employee 2,000 shares of
restricted common stock under the 2005 Plan. 
In accordance with the 2005 Plan, restricted common stock awarded under
the 2005 Plan and restricted performance shares are deducted from shares
available for grant in a one to three ratio.  

(2) During the three months ended December 30, 2005, VMS
excluded from shares available for grant 4,000 shares of expired options that
were granted before the spin-offs of VI and VSEA under VMS s previous, now
inactive, stock option plans. In addition, 1,000 shares of restricted common
stock that had been previously granted to an employee were cancelled during the
three months ended December 30, 2005.  

(3) The aggregate intrinsic value represents the
total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on VMS s closing stock price of $50.34 as
of December 30, 2005, which would have been received by the option holders
had all option holders exercised their options as of that date.  

The
total pre-tax intrinsic value of options exercised was $59 million during the
three months ended December 30, 2005.  

  The
following table summarizes information related to options outstanding and
exercisable under the Employee Stock Plans at December 30, 2005:  

16  

SFAS
123(R) requires the Company to present pro forma information for the
comparative period prior to the adoption as if it had accounted for all of its
stock options under the fair value method of SFAS 123. The following table
illustrates the pro forma information regarding the effect on net earnings and net
earnings per share if the Company had accounted for the share-based employee
compensation under the fair value method of accounting:  

Three Months Ended   

(In thousands, except per share
  amounts)   

December 31, 2004   

Net
  earnings, as reported  

$  

40,309  

Add: Stock-based employee compensation
  expense included in reported net earnings under 
  APB No. 25, net of related tax effects  

266  

Deduct: Total stock-based employee
  compensation determined under the fair value method 
  for all awards, net of related tax effects  

(5,560  

)  

Pro forma
  net earnings  

$  

35,015  

Net earnings
  per share   Basic:  

As reported  

$  

0.30  

Pro forma  

$  

0.26  

Net earnings
  per share   Diluted:  

As reported  

$  

0.29  

Pro forma  

$  

0.25  

As of December 30, 2005, there was $59 million of total
unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options granted under the
Employee Stock Plans.  This unrecognized
compensation expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average
period of 2.3 years.  

The activity for restricted
stock and restricted performance shares is summarized as follows:  

As of
December 30, 2005, there was $1.8 million of total unrecognized compensation
expense related to restricted stock granted under the Employee Stock
Plans.  This unrecognized compensation
expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 13.3
years.  The 363,632 shares that vested
during the three months ended December 30, 2005 were restricted performance
shares, and the total fair value of these vested shares was $18 million.  The Company withheld  161,931
shares (approximately $8 million) for employees  taxes at vesting.  

12.
EARNINGS PER SHARE   

Basic net earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings by
the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the
period. Diluted net earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings by
the sum of the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and
dilutive common shares under the treasury method.  

17  

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted
earnings per share:  

The
Company excludes options from the computation of diluted weighted average
shares outstanding if the assumed proceeds, including the sum of (a) the
exercise price of the options; (b) the amount of compensation cost attributed
to future services and not yet recognized and (c) the amount of tax benefit,
are greater than the average market price of the shares because the inclusion
of these options would be antidilutive to earnings per share.  Accordingly, stock options to purchase 4,080,984
shares and 248,124 shares at an
average exercise price of $45.75 and
$42.39 per share, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted
weighted average shares outstanding for both the three months ended December
30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively.  

13.
SEGMENT INFORMATION   

The Company s operations are
grouped into two reportable operating segments: Oncology Systems and X-ray
Products. These reportable operating segments were determined based on how the
Company s Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Operating Decision Maker ( CODM ),
views and evaluates the Company s operations. Beginning on October 1, 2005, the
Company moved the BrachyTherapy business from the  Other  category to the Oncology
Systems business segment as the CODM has begun to evaluate the BrachyTherapy business
as part of the Oncology Systems business segment due to the natural synergies in
the area of radiation oncology.  At the
same time, the Company moved the Security and Inspection Products business ( SIP )
from the Oncology Systems business segment into the  Other  category.  The Company s Ginzton Technology Center ( GTC )
and SIP are reflected in the  Other  category because neither GTC nor SIP meets
the criteria of a reportable operating segment as defined under SFAS No. 131,   Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information  .  All prior period amounts have been adjusted
retrospectively to reflect the new segments. The CODM allocates resources to
and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily
based on operating earnings.  

The
following table summarizes selected operating results information for each
business segment:  

18  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

To the Board of Directors and  

  Stockholders of Varian Medical Systems, Inc.:  

We have reviewed the accompanying condensed
consolidated balance sheet of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries
(the  Company ) as of December 30, 2005, and the related condensed consolidated
statements of earnings for the three-month periods ended December 30, 2005 and
December 31, 2004 and the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for
the three month periods ended December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004.  These interim financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company s management.  

We conducted our review in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States).  A review of interim financial
information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making
inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters.  It is substantially less in scope than an
audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board, the objective of which is the expression of an
opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole.  Accordingly, we do not express such an
opinion.  

Based on our review, we are not aware of any
material modifications that should be made to the accompanying condensed
consolidated interim financial statements for them to be in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  

We have previously audited, in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2005, the related
consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity and cash flows for
the year then ended, management s assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2005
and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting as of September 30, 2005; and in our report dated December 9, 2005 on
financial statements and internal control over financial reporting, we
expressed unqualified opinions thereon. 
The consolidated financial statements and management s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to above
are not presented herein.  In our
opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated
balance sheet as of September 30, 2005, is fairly stated in all material
respects in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been
derived.  

19  

Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations   

Forward-Looking
Statements   

This
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains  forward-looking  statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which provides
a  safe harbor  for statements about future events, products and future
financial performance that are based on the beliefs of, estimates made by and
information currently available to the management of Varian Medical Systems,
Inc. and its subsidiaries ( we,   our,  or the  Company ). The outcome of the
events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks and
uncertainties. Actual results and the outcome or timing of certain events may
differ significantly from those projected in these forward-looking statements or
management s current expectations due to the factors cited in this  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  or
MD A, the Risk Factors listed under Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q, and other factors described from time to time in our other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, or other reasons.
For this purpose, statements concerning industry or market segment outlook;
market acceptance of or transition to new products or technology such as intensity
modulated radiation therapy, image guided radiation therapy, brachytherapy,
software, treatment techniques, and advanced X-ray products; growth drivers;
orders, revenues, backlog or earnings growth; future financial results and any
statements using the terms  believe,   expect,   expectation,   anticipate,   can, 
 should,   will,   would,   could,   estimate,   appear,   based on,   may,   intended, 
 potential  and  possible  or similar statements are forward-looking
statements.  By making forward-looking
statements, we have not assumed any obligation to, and you should not expect us
to, update or revise those statements because of new information, future events
or otherwise.  

Overview   

We reported
strong growth in net earnings, revenues, net orders and backlog in the first
quarter of fiscal year 2006 compared to the same period of fiscal year 2005.  During the first quarter of fiscal
year 2006, our overall revenues increased by 12% and overall net orders
increased by 20% compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2005.  All of our businesses contributed to net
order growth with gains in brachytherapy, security and inspection, and filmless
X-ray imaging. At the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we reported
backlog at $1.2 billion, an increase of 24% from the end of the year-ago
quarter.  

Oncology Systems     .    Our largest business segment
is Oncology Systems, which produces, sells and services hardware and software
products for treating cancer with radiation, including linear accelerators,
treatment simulation and verification products, brachytherapy equipment, information
management and treatment planning software and other sophisticated accessory
products and services.  Our external beam
radiation therapy products enable radiation oncology departments in hospitals
and clinics to perform conventional radiotherapy treatments and offer the
advanced treatment processes of intensity modulated radiation therapy, or IMRT,
image guided radiation therapy, or IGRT, and stereotactic radiosurgery.  Our advanced brachytherapy products include
treatment planning software, high-dose-rate afterloaders and applicators and
are being used for partial breast irradiation and many other applications.  During the first quarter of fiscal year 2006,
we moved the BrachyTherapy business from the  Other  category to the Oncology
Systems business segment as our Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating
Decision Maker, has begun to evaluate the BrachyTherapy business as part of the
Oncology Systems segment due to the natural synergies in the area of radiation therapy
oncology. 

In our
view, the fundamental market drivers for long-term growth in the radiation
therapy and stereotactic radiosurgery markets continue to be the rising cancer
incidence, underserved medical needs outside of the United States, technology
advances that are leading to improvements in patient care, improvement in cost
efficiency in delivering radiation therapy and customer demand for more
advanced and effective cancer treatments, such as IMRT, IGRT, stereotactic radiosurgery and
brachytherapy.  

Our primary
goal in the Oncology Systems business segment is to promote adoption of these
more advanced and effective cancer treatments. Adoption of our new IGRT
technology continued to drive the orders growth in this quarter, especially in
North America, with an increasing percentage of orders for our high-energy Clinac   
accelerators including our on board imager, or OBI.  As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal
year 2006, more than 150 installations of our OBI for our high-energy Clinac accelerators
and Trilogy  medical linear accelerators were either complete or in progress.  

For the
first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we saw a continued shift in our Oncology
Systems business from North America to the international regions, with international
net orders accounting for 50% of the total Oncology Systems net orders in the first
quarter of fiscal year 2006, compared to 49% of the total Oncology Systems net
orders in the same period of fiscal year 2005. 
International Oncology Systems net orders increased due primarily to growth in
both Europe and Asia driven by the underserved medical needs and by the
continued adoption cycle for IMRT internationally. North American Oncology Systems net orders increased
primarily because of demand for our new accessory products that enable IGRT (including
our  

20  

OBI), for the Trilogy  medical linear accelerators and for services. We believe
IGRT is being adopted by hospitals and clinics at a faster rate than we
experienced with IMRT. Similar to what we
have experienced with IMRT, we expect that IGRT will become one of the
main contributors to net orders and revenue growth in our Oncology Systems
business segment in the coming years, with North America ahead of international
regions in the timing of IGRT adoption.  

Our
success in Oncology Systems depends upon our ability to retain leadership in
technological innovation, the cost effectiveness of our products, the efficacy
of our treatment technology, our effectiveness in integrating our acquisitions
and external economic influences. 
Factors affecting the adoption rate of new technologies such as IGRT
could include our internal efficiency in design, documentation and testing,
deployment and installation and the more-widely demonstrated efficacy of IGRT
by early adopters.  They may also include
customer training, reimbursement and our ability to educate customers about the
cost effectiveness of our new technology and clinical outcome advantages.  External economic factors could include
hospital financial strength in the United States, currency exchange rates and
governmental healthcare policies outside the United States.  

X-Ray Products     .    Our second business segment
is X-ray Products, which manufactures and sells (i) X-ray tubes for use in a range
of applications including computed tomography, or CT, scanning,
radioscopic/fluoroscopic imaging, mammography, special procedures and
industrial applications and (ii) flat panel imaging products for digital X-ray
image capture (also commonly referred to as flat panel detectors), which is an
alternative to image intensifier tubes for fluoroscopy and X-ray film for
radiography.  We continue to view the
fundamental growth driver for the component business to be the on-going success
of key original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that incorporate our X-ray
tube products and flat panel detectors into their medical diagnostic and
industrial imaging systems. Our flat panel detectors are being incorporated
into next generation imaging equipment, including equipment for IGRT such as
OBI, and for dental CT scanning and veterinary X-ray imaging. X-ray Products
had good net orders, revenues and operating earnings growth in the first
quarter of fiscal year 2006 compared to the same period of fiscal year 2005 due
primarily to robust growth from flat panel detectors. 

Other.     During the first quarter
of fiscal year 2006, we moved the Security and Inspection Products business, or
SIP, from the Oncology Systems segment into the  Other  category, which is now
comprised of SIP and the operations of the Ginzton Technology Center, or GTC
(see Note 13,  Segment Information  of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q).  SIP designs, manufactures and sells
Linatron    X-ray accelerators for security and inspection purposes
such as cargo screening, border protection and traditional nondestructive
examination of metallic and other structures. 
SIP has also developed a new type of dual energy Linatron X-ray
accelerator that can automatically detect and alert operators when nuclear materials, explosives,
weapons of mass destruction and other hazardous materials are present during
cargo screening and non-intrusive
inspection of cargo containers. 
We generally sell our Linatron X-ray accelerators to OEMs who
incorporate our accelerators into their inspection products, which are then
sold to port authorities and other government agencies, as well as to
commercial private parties.  We believe
growth in this business will be driven by security cargo screening and border
protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify
shipments for assessing duties and taxes. 
As a result, this business is heavily influenced by U.S. and foreign
governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and
customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and
appropriations and subject to political changes. GTC, our research facility for
new and potential markets, continued to invest in developing technologies that enhance our
current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including next generation
digital X-ray imaging technology, volumetric and functional imaging, improved
X-ray sources and technology for security and cargo screening applications. In addition, GTC is developing
technologies and products that are designed to improve disease management by more
precise targeting of radiation, as well as by employing targeted energy
and molecular agents to enhance the effectiveness and broaden the application
of radiation therapy.  In the first quarter of
fiscal year 2006, our net orders in this  Other  category increased primarily
due to a substantial increase in orders from two key OEMs for our Linatron
X-ray accelerators for cargo screening and border protection in North America
and Europe.  While we are optimistic
about the long-term potential of our SIP business and encouraged by the
increased interest in our products, use of this technology in security cargo
screening and border protection is in its early stages and governmental
agencies have provided little public information about plans for adopting such
technologies.  Orders for our SIP
products may be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place larger orders on
our OEM customers in a short time period and then do not place any orders for a
long time period thereafter. 

This
discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is
based upon and should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated
financial statements and the notes included elsewhere in this report, as well
as the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements     in our
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, the
Risk Factors contained in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q, and other information provided from time to time in our other filings
with the SEC.  

21  

Critical Accounting Estimates   

The
preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America,
or GAAP, requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.  These estimates and assumptions are based on
historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are
reasonable under the circumstances.  We
periodically review our accounting policies and estimates and make adjustments
when facts and circumstances dictate. 
Our critical accounting policies that are affected by accounting
estimates include share-based compensation expense, revenue recognition,
valuation of allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, valuation
of warranty obligations, assessment of recoverability of goodwill and
intangible assets, assessment of environmental remediation liabilities and
valuation of taxes on earnings.  Such
accounting policies are impacted significantly by judgments, assumptions and
estimates used in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements, and actual results could differ materially from these estimates.  For a discussion of how these estimates and
other factors may affect our business, also see the Risk Factors listed under
Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  

Share-based
Compensation Expense    

Effective October 1, 2005, we adopted on
a modified prospective transition method Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),   Share-Based Payment  ,
or SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation
expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors,
including stock options, employee stock purchases related to the Employee Stock
Purchase Plan and restricted stock based on fair values. Our financial statements
as of and for the  first quarter of fiscal year 2006  reflect the impact of SFAS 123(R). In
accordance with the modified prospective transition method, our financial statements
for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the
impact of SFAS 123(R). Share-based compensation expense recognized is
based on the value of the portion of share-based payment awards that is
ultimately expected to vest. Share-based compensation expense recognized in our
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings during the first quarter of fiscal
years 2006 included compensation expense for share-based payment awards granted
prior to, but not yet vested as of, September 30, 2005 based on the grant
date fair value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS
123 and compensation expense for the share-based payment awards granted
subsequent to September 30, 2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated
in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). In conjunction with the
adoption of SFAS 123(R), we elected to attribute the value of share-based
compensation to expense using the straight-line method, which was previously
used for its pro forma information required under SFAS 123. Share-based compensation expense related to stock options and employee
stock purchases was $8.0 million, before taxes on earnings for the first
quarter of fiscal year 2006. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, there
was no share-based compensation expense related to stock options or employee
stock purchases recognized under the intrinsic value method in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,   Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees  , or APB 25. During the first
quarter of fiscal years 2006 and 2005, share-based compensation expense related
to restricted stock was $0.1 million and $0.4 million, respectively, which would have been recorded under APB
25.  See Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information. 

Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), we elected to value our
share-based payment awards granted beginning in fiscal year 2006 using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model, or the Black-Scholes model, which we previously
used for the pro forma information required under SFAS 123. For additional
information, see Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes model is affected by VMS s stock price as well as
the input of other subjective assumptions. 
These assumptions include, but are not limited to the expected term of
stock options and VMS s expected stock price volatility over the term of the
awards. Our options and the option component of the Employee Stock Purchase
Plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those of traded
options, and changes in the assumptions can materially affect the fair value
estimates.   

The expected term of stock options represents
the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain
outstanding. The expected term is based on the observed and expected time to
post-vesting exercise and forfeitures of option by our employees. Upon the
adoption of SFAS 123(R), we determined the expected term of stock options based
on the demographic grouping of employees and retirement eligibility. Prior to
the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we determined the expected term of stock
options based on the demographic grouping of employees. Upon adoption of SFAS
123(R), we used a combination of historical and implied volatility, or blended
volatility, in deriving the expected volatility assumption as allowed under
SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107.  Implied volatility was derived based on
six-month traded options on our common stock. 
Prior to the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we had used our
historical stock price volatility in accordance with SFAS 123 for purposes of
our pro forma information. The selection of the blended volatility approach was
based upon  

22  

the availability of traded options on our
stock and our assessment that blended volatility is more representative of
future stock price trends than just historical volatility alone. The risk-free
interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for
the term of our stock options. The dividend yield assumption is based on our
history and expectation of dividend payouts.  

As share-based compensation expense
recognized in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the first
quarter of fiscal 2006 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has
been reduced for estimated forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be
estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods
if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated
based on our historical experience.  In the Company s pro forma
information required under SFAS 123 for the periods prior to October 1, 2005,
we accounted for forfeitures as they occurred.  If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the
application of SFAS 123(R) in future periods, the compensation expense that we
record under SFAS 123(R) may differ significantly from what we have recorded in
the current period. 

As of December 30, 2005, there was $59 million of total
unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options granted under the  Omnibus
Stock Plan, the 2000 Stock Option Plan and the 2005 Omnibus Stock Plan
(together, the  Employee Stock Plans ).  This unrecognized compensation expense is
expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.3 years.  As of December 30, 2005, there was $1.8
million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to restricted stock
granted under the Employee Stock Plans. 
This unrecognized compensation expense is expected to be recognized over
a weighted average period of 13.3 years.  

Revenue
Recognition    

We frequently enter into sales
arrangements with customers that contain multiple elements or deliverables such
as hardware, software and services. Judgments as to the allocation of the
proceeds received from an arrangement to the multiple elements of the
arrangement, the determination of whether any undelivered elements are
essential to the functionality of the delivered elements and the appropriate
timing of revenue recognition are critical in respect to these arrangements to
ensure compliance with GAAP.  In
addition, the amount of product revenues recognized is affected by our
judgments as to whether objective and reliable evidence of fair value exists
for hardware products and vendor-specific
objective evidence of the fair value for software products in
arrangements with multiple elements. Changes to the elements in an arrangement
and the ability to establish objective and reliable evidence of fair value or vendor-specific objective evidence of the fair
value for those elements could affect the timing of revenue
recognition.  Revenue recognition also
depends on the timing of shipment and is subject to customer acceptance and the
readiness of customers  facilities.  If
shipments are not made on scheduled timelines or if the products are not
accepted by the customer in a timely manner, our reported revenues may differ
materially from expectations.  

Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts    

Credit
evaluations are undertaken for all major sale transactions before shipment is
authorized. Normal payment terms require payment of a small portion of the
total amount due upon signing of the purchase order contract, a significant
amount upon transfer of risk of loss and the remaining amount upon completion
of the installation.  On a quarterly
basis, we evaluate aged items in the accounts receivable aging report and provide
allowance in an amount we deem adequate for doubtful accounts.  If our evaluation of our customers  financial
conditions does not reflect the future ability to collect outstanding
receivables, additional provisions may be needed and our future operating
results could be negatively impacted.  

Inventories    

Our
inventories include high technology parts and components that may be
specialized in nature or subject to rapid technological obsolescence. We have
programs to minimize the required inventories on hand and we regularly review
inventory quantities on hand and adjust for excess and obsolete inventory based
primarily on historical usage rates and our estimates of product demand and
production.  Actual demand may differ
from our estimates, in which case we may have understated or overstated the
provision required for obsolete and excess inventory, which would have an
impact on our operating results.  

Goodwill
and Intangible Assets    

Goodwill is initially recorded when the
purchase price paid for a business acquisition exceeds the estimated fair value
of the net identified tangible and intangible assets acquired. The majority of
companies that we have acquired have not had  

23  

significant identified tangible assets and,
as a result, a significant portion of the purchase price has been typically
allocated to intangible assets and goodwill. Our future operating performance
will be impacted by the future amortization of these acquired intangible assets
and potential impairment charges related to goodwill if indicators of
impairment exist. As a result of business acquisitions, the allocation of the
purchase price to goodwill and intangible assets could have a significant
impact on our future operating results. The allocation of the purchase price of
the acquired companies to goodwill and intangible assets requires us to make
significant estimates and assumptions, including estimates of future cash flows
expected to be generated by the acquired assets and the appropriate discount
rate for these cash flows. Should conditions be different from management s
estimates  at the time of the acquisition , material write-downs of intangible assets and/or goodwill may be
required, which would adversely affect our operating results.  We
will continue to make assessments of impairment on an annual basis in the
fourth quarter of our fiscal years or more frequently if indicators of
potential impairment arise.  In fiscal
years 2005 and 2004, we performed such evaluations and found no impairment. 

Warranty
Obligations    

We
warrant most of our products for a specific period of time, usually one year,
against material defects.  For software
products, we usually warrant against material defects for three months. We
provide for the estimated future costs of warranty obligations in cost of
revenues when the related revenues are recognized.  The accrued warranty costs represent our best
estimate at the time of sale of the total costs that we will incur to repair or
replace product parts that fail while still under warranty.  The amount of accrued estimated warranty
costs obligation for established products is primarily based on historical
experience as to product failures adjusted for current information on repair
costs.  For new products, estimates will
include historical experience of similar products, as well as reasonable
allowance for start-up expenses.  Actual
warranty costs could differ from the estimated amounts. On a quarterly basis,
we review the accrued balances of our warranty obligations and update the
historical warranty cost trends. If we were required to accrue additional
warranty cost in the future, it would negatively impact our operating results.  

Environmental
Matters    

We are
subject to a variety of environmental laws around the world regulating the
handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials that do or may
create increased costs for some of our operations.  Environmental remediation liabilities are
recorded when environmental assessments and/or remediation efforts are probable
and the costs of these assessments or remediation efforts can be reasonably
estimated, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
5,   Accounting for Contingencies,  
and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, Statement
of Position 96-1,   Environmental Remediation
Liabilities.    The accrued
environmental costs represent our best estimate as to the total costs of
remediation and the time period over which these costs will be incurred.  On a quarterly basis, we review these accrued
balances.  If we were required to accrue
additional environmental remediation costs in the future, it would negatively
impact our operating results.  

Defined
Benefit and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans    

We
sponsor several defined benefit pension plans covering the employees who meet the
applicable eligibility requirements. Several statistical and other factors that
attempt to anticipate future events are used in calculating the expense and
liability related to those plans for which the benefit is actuarially
determined. These factors include assumptions about the discount rate, expected
return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases and healthcare
cost increases, which we determined within certain guidelines. In addition, we
also use subjective factors, such as withdrawal and mortality rates, to
calculate the expense and liability. The actuarial assumptions we use are
long-term assumptions and may differ materially from actual experience in the
short-term due to changing market and economic conditions and changing
participant demographics. These differences may have a significant impact on
the amount of pension expense we recorded.  

The expected rates of return on the various
defined benefit pension plans  assets are based on the asset allocation of each
plan and the long-term projected return of those assets.  The discount rate enables us to state
expected future cash flows at a present value on the measurement date.  The discount rates used for defined benefit plans
in all countries other than Germany are based on  high quality AA-rated corporate bonds with durations corresponding to
the expected durations of the benefit obligations.  The
discount rate for the defined benefit plan in Germany was determined using fixed-income
German government investments corresponding to the duration of the benefit
obligations adjusted to take into account the difference between the yield
curve on high quality corporate fixed-income investments and government
fixed-income investment. A lower discount rate increases the present value of
benefit obligations and increases pension expense. 

24  

Taxes on Earnings    

We are subject to taxes on
earnings in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  As a global taxpayer, significant judgments
and estimates are required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our
provision for taxes on earnings.  The
calculation of our tax liabilities involves addressing uncertainties in the
application of complex tax regulations. 
We recognize liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the United
States and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the
extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due.  These liabilities are adjusted in light of
changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit.  The provision for taxes on earnings includes
the effect of changes to these liabilities that are considered appropriate.  

In addition, the carrying value
of our net deferred tax assets assumes that we will be able to generate
sufficient future taxable earnings to fully utilize these deferred tax
assets.  Should we conclude it is more
likely than not that we will be unable to recover our net deferred tax assets,
our tax provision would increase in the period in which we make such a
determination.  

Earnings derived from our
international regions are generally taxed at rates lower than U.S. rates.  The ability to maintain our current effective
rate is contingent upon existing tax laws in both the United States and in the
respective countries in which our international subsidiaries are located.   In addition, a decrease in the percentage of
our total earnings from our international regions, or a change in the mix of
international regions among particular tax jurisdictions, could increase our
effective tax rate.  Also, our current
effective tax rate does not assume U.S. taxes on undistributed profits of
certain foreign subsidiaries.  These
earnings could become subject to incremental foreign withholding or U.S.
federal and state taxes should they either be deemed or actually remitted to
the United States.  

Results of
Operations   

Fiscal
Year    

Our
fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Friday nearest
September 30. Fiscal year 2006 is the 52-week period ending
September 29, 2006, and fiscal year 2005 was the 52-week period ended
September 30, 2005. The fiscal quarters ended December 30, 2005 and December
31, 2004 were both 13-week periods.  

25  

Discussion of Financial Data for the         First Quarter of Fiscal
Year 2006 Compared to the First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2005   

Total Revenues    

(1) We
consider international revenues to be revenues outside of North America.  

Total
revenues for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 increased over total
revenues for the first quarter of fiscal year 2005 due primarily to the increase
in Oncology Systems revenues and, to a lesser extent, X-ray Products revenues.  All of our geographic regions in both the
Oncology Systems and X-ray Products business segments contributed to our total
revenues increase and total product revenue growth in the first quarter of
fiscal year 2006.  The solid growth
in total product revenues was complemented by strong growth in Oncology Systems
service contracts revenues. Oncology Systems service contracts revenue growth
was also the primary contributor to the total service contracts and other revenue
growth.  

Oncology
Systems also was the primary contributor to the increases in international
revenues in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006.  The shift in international revenues as a
greater percentage of total revenues was driven by the shift in the Oncology
Systems business segment towards a greater percentage of international
revenues.  

Oncology
Systems Revenues    

(1)
Revenues from service contracts represent revenues from fixed-term service contracts
and labor cost services.  This excludes
revenues from spare parts sold by our service department.  

26  

Oncology Systems product
revenues for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 increased 10% over the first
quarter of fiscal year 2005 due primarily to higher sales volumes of our accessory
and software products and in particular, our OBI that enables IGRT.  Service contracts revenues continued to grow at
a faster rate than product revenues in Oncology Systems.  The increase in service contracts revenues
for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 over the first quarter of fiscal year
2005 was primarily driven by the increased sophistication of our products and
higher sales volume of our software products which generate annual maintenance
contracts and renewals.  

For the
first quarter of fiscal year 2006, revenues in North America increased modestly
at 3% over the first quarter of fiscal year 2005 compared with 7% for the first
quarter of fiscal year 2005 over the first quarter of fiscal year 2004.  T he North American region continued
in a lower revenue growth rate phase for radiotherapy capital equipment after
several years of strong growth driven by rapid adoption of IMRT since IMRT has now
become a more established treatment methodology.   The
decrease in revenue growth rate in North America, however, has been more than
offset by revenue growth rate from our international regions.  

The growth in international Oncology Systems revenues of 23% in the
first quarter of fiscal year 2006 over the first quarter of fiscal year 2005
was due to the increases in both product and service contracts revenues driven
by the underserved markets in Asia and Europe and the increase in adoption rate
of IMRT by our international customers, similar to what we had seen in North
America several years ago.  

X-ray Products
Revenues    

The
unusually strong growth in X-ray Products revenues in the first quarter of
fiscal year 2006 compared to the same period of fiscal year 2005 was primarily
driven by higher sales volume of our flat panel  detectors to our OEM customers in North America and Asia,
as well as increased sales volume of our high power, anode grounded CT scanning
tubes and X-ray tubes used in security screening.  All of our geographic regions contributed to
the increase in X-ray Products revenues for the first quarter of fiscal year
2006 compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, although North America
was the primary contributor.  

27  

Other Revenues    

For our  Other  category, which
is now comprised of SIP and GTC, the decrease
in revenues for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 over the
same period in fiscal year 2005 was due to the typically uneven customer
delivery and acceptance schedules for our Linatron products in Europe and Asia.  

Gross Margin    

The 0.4 percentage point decrease in total gross margin
was due primarily to the decrease in revenues in the  Other category  and the
inclusion of share-based compensation expense in the first quarter of fiscal
year 2006 results in connection with our adoption of SFAS 123(R). Oncology
Systems gross margin was essentially flat for the first quarter of fiscal year
2006 compared to the same period of fiscal year 2005. A mix shift towards
certain higher margin accessory products was offset by a higher proportion of
international revenues which typically have lower gross margins than revenues
from North America and share-based compensation expense of $0.7 million recorded
in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006.  

X-ray
Products gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 increased
slightly at 0.4 percentage point from the first quarter of fiscal year 2005 due
to higher gross margin contributed by the increasing sales volume of our flat
panel  detectors, which have significantly
higher gross margin than that of X-ray tube products, partially offset
by share-based compensation expense of $0.3 million recorded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006.  

Research and
Development    

The
$3.8 million increase in research and development expenses for the first
quarter of fiscal year 2006 compared to the same period in fiscal year 2005 was
attributable to net increases of $2.4 million in Oncology Systems, $1.0 million
in X-ray Products and $0.4 million in the  Other  category.  The increase in Oncology Systems was
attributable primarily to: a) increased employee headcount, materials costs and
consulting expenses totaling $2.1 million and b) share-based  

28  

compensation
expense of $0.4 million recorded   in
the first quarter of fiscal year 2006.  The
incr  ease in X-ray
Products was due primarily to: a) expenses totaling $0.8 million for new
research projects related to both X-ray tubes and flat panel detectors and b)
share-based compensation expense of $0.2 million recorded in the first quarter of
fiscal year 2006.  

Selling,
General and Administrative    

The $10.6
million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the first
quarter of fiscal year 2006 compared to the same period in fiscal year 2005 was
primarily attributable to: a) share-based compensation expense of $6.1 million recorded
in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006; b) increased employee-related
expenses of $2.6 million resulting from an increase in employee headcount in
Oncology Systems and corporate headquarters to support our growing business
activities; and (c) increased sales commissions of $1.6 million.  

Interest Income, Net    

The
increase in interest income, net in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006
compared to the same period of fiscal year 2005 was primarily attributable to
the increase in interest rates and the increase in the levels of cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities.  

Taxes on
Earnings    

The decrease in the effective tax rate  for the
first quarter of fiscal year 2006 was
primarily due to a shift of earnings towards countries where we have lower
statutory rates.  Our future effective
tax rate could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated
in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in
countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of
our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws or
interpretations thereof.  

Net Earnings
Per Diluted Share    

The
$0.01 increase in net earnings per diluted share for the first quarter of
fiscal year 2006 over the first quarter of fiscal year 2005 can be attributed
to the increase in total revenues, the reduction in effective tax rate and the
reduction in outstanding shares of common stock due to stock repurchases, substantially
offset by a $0.04 per diluted share increase in expenses attributable to
share-based compensation incurred in connection with our adoption of SFAS 123(R).  

29  

Net Orders    

The increase in net orders for the first quarter of
fiscal year 2006 from the same period of fiscal year 2005 was primarily
due to the increase in Oncology Systems net orders.   Oncology Systems continued to benefit
from our international regions, which contributed 50% of our total net orders
for the business segment in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006.  International Oncology Systems net orders
increased by 21%, due primarily to growth in both Europe and Asia with continuing adoption of
IMRT in these underserved markets. North
American Oncology Systems net orders increased 15% in the first quarter of
fiscal year 2006 against a relatively weak first quarter of fiscal year 2005
which had a net order decrease of 5% from the same period in fiscal year
2004.  The growth in North American net
orders primarily reflected demand for our new accessory products that enable
IGRT (including our OBI), for the Trilogy medical linear accelerators and for services. We believe
IGRT is being adopted by hospitals and clinics at a faster rate than we
experienced with IMRT. Similar to what we
have experienced with IMRT, we expect that IGRT will become one of the
main contributors to net orders and revenue growth in our Oncology Systems
business segment in the coming years, with North America ahead of international
regions in the timing of IGRT adoption.  

For the
trailing twelve months ended December 30, 2005, Oncology Systems net orders
increased by 17%, including an 8% increase for North America and a 30% increase for international regions.  By comparison, the trailing twelve-month Oncology
Systems net orders growth rate in the first quarter of fiscal year 2005 was 17%,
including an 8% increase for North
America and a 31% increase for
international regions.  We continue to
believe that Oncology Systems business segment can sustain global long-term
growth of 10% to 15% a year due to fundamental market factors for growth in the
radiation therapy market that we believe have remained unchanged.  In any given period, however, orders growth
in either North America or international regions, or both, could be outside of
this range.  The actual timing of sales and
revenue recognition will vary significantly based on the delivery requirements
of individual orders and the readiness of individual customer sites for
installation of our products and are usually shorter for some types of orders,
such as upgrades (  i.e.  , the addition of new features
or accessories to existing equipment).  Thus,
orders in any quarter or period are not necessarily directly correlated to the
level of sales or revenues in any particular future quarter or period.  Moreover, as the overall mix of net orders
includes a greater proportion of software products and newly introduced
Oncology Systems products, which typically have longer time from order to completion of
installation, and a higher percentage of our overall Oncology Systems business coming from
international regions, which typically have a longer period from
shipment to revenue recognition, the average time period within which orders
convert into sales could lengthen.  

X-ray
Products have a relatively short turn around time from net orders to
shipments.  X-ray Products net orders
increased for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 compared to the same
period of fiscal year 2005 due to robust demand for our flat panel detectors
and continuing strong demand for our high
power, anode grounded CT scanning tubes. 
After years of investment in flat panel technology, our flat panel
product line is showing signs of becoming a significant contributor to our
X-ray Products business segment.  As the flat panel imaging business becomes a more
significant part of the total X-ray Products business over time and as the
demand for CT scanning tubes continues to have solid growth, we expect
the long-term growth rates for X-ray Products business to be in the 5% to 10%
range.  

30  

Net orders in the  Other  category, comprised
of GTC and SIP, increased in the first
quarter of fiscal year 2006 compared to the same period in fiscal year 2005
primarily due to a substantial increase in orders from two key OEMs for
our Linatron X-ray accelerators for cargo screening and border protection in
North America and Europe.  While we are
optimistic about the long-term potential of our SIP business and encouraged by
the increased interest in our products, use of this technology in security
cargo screening and border protection is in its early stages and governmental
agencies have provided little public information about plans for adopting such
technologies.  Orders for our SIP
products may be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place larger orders on
our OEM customers in a short time period and then do not place any orders for a
long time period thereafter.  The actual
timing of sales and revenue recognition will vary significantly as it is
difficult to predict our customer delivery and
acceptance schedules.  Thus,
orders in any quarter or period are not necessarily directly correlated to the
level of sales or revenues in any particular future quarter or period.  

Backlog    

At December 30, 2005, we had a backlog of $1.2 billion,
an increase of 24% compared to December 31, 2004.  Our Oncology Systems backlog at December 30,
2005 increased by 24% from December 31, 2004, including a 19% increase for
North America and a 30% increase for international regions.  

Outlook    

Total Revenues:     We continue to believe that
total revenues for fiscal year 2006 should increase by about 14% over the total
for fiscal year 2005.  Second
quarter of fiscal year 2006 should grow in the mid-teens over the comparable
period in fiscal year 2005.  

Net
Earnings Per Diluted Share:    Excluding the impact of share-based compensation
expense, growth in net earnings per diluted share over comparable fiscal year
2005 periods should be in the range of 17% to 18% for the full fiscal year and
for the second quarter.  We expect that
the annual impact of share-based compensation expense will be in the range of
$0.19 to $0.22 per diluted share in fiscal year 2006 and about $0.06 for the
second quarter.  

Net Orders, Backlog     and   Outlook   contain forward-looking statements
and projections that are subject to the factors, risks and uncertainties set
forth or referred to under  Forward Looking Statements  in this MD A, the
Risk Factors contained in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  Actual results and the outcome or timing of
certain events may differ significantly.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

Liquidity is the measurement of our ability to meet potential cash
requirements, including ongoing commitments to repay borrowings, acquire
businesses and fund continuing operations. Our sources of cash include
earnings, net interest income, borrowings under long-term loans, stock option
exercises and employee stock purchases. Our cash usage is actively managed on a
daily basis to ensure the maintenance of sufficient funds to meet our needs.  

Cash, Cash
Equivalents and Marketable Securities    

The
following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and marketable
securities:  

The net
increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable
securities during the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 was primarily attributable
to $29 million of cash provided by the issuance of common stock related to
employee stock option exercises, $22 million of cash provided by the excess tax
benefits from share-based compensation and $14 million cash generated from
operating activities, all of which were significantly offset by the use of cash
and cash proceeds from maturities of marketable securities for the repurchase
of common stock of $39 million, capital expenditures of $9 million and  

31  

employee
tax payments of $8 million against 161,931 withheld shares in connection with
performance share awards that vested during the quarter.  

At December 30, 2005, we had $389 million in cash,
cash equivalents and marketable securities (approximately 64% of which was held
in international jurisdictions and some of which could be subject to additional
taxation if repatriated to the U.S.) compared to $382 million (approximately
52% of which was held in international jurisdictions) at September 30, 2005.   We have not yet completed our
evaluation of the impact of the repatriation provisions in the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004, or the Jobs Creation Act. 
Based on our analysis to date, however, it is reasonably possible that
we may repatriate up to $175 million, with a related tax liability of up to $16
million.  We currently expect to be in a
position to finalize our assessment by the third quarter of fiscal year 2006.  

Cash Flows    

Our primary cash inflows and outflows for the first quarter
of fiscal year 2006 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2005 were as
follows:  

We
generated net cash from operating activities of $14 million during the first
quarter of fiscal year 2006, compared to $41 million for the first
quarter of fiscal year 2005.  In
connection with our adoption of SFAS 123(R) in the first quarter of fiscal year
2006, we reported $22 million of excess tax benefits from share-based
compensation as cash provided by financing activities, which was previously
reported as cash provided by operating activities in the first quarter of
fiscal year 2005.  The $27 million decrease
in net cash from operating activities during the first quarter of fiscal year
2006 compared to the same period of fiscal year 2005 was driven by a net
change of approximately $32 million in operating assets and liabilities (working
capital items), partially offset by a net increase in non-cash items of $5
million. The major contributors to the net change in working capital items in
the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 were inventories, accounts payable and
accrued expenses.  Inventories increased
primarily due to the continuing shift to a higher proportion of international
deliveries, which typically have a longer period from shipment to cost
recognition and also due to anticipated customer demands for both Oncology
Systems and X-ray Products business segments. 
The decrease in accounts payable was due primarily to the timing of our
payments to vendors.  Accrued expenses decreased
primarily due to decreases in accrued income taxes and other accrued
liabilities.  The net decrease in accrued
income taxes was due primarily to tax benefits from stock option exercises,
which was partially offset by an increase in income taxes on current earnings.  The decrease in other accrued liabilities was
due primarily to payment of certain employee-related expenses. The net increase
in non-cash items was due principally to the $15 million increase in income tax
benefits realized from stock options exercised and share-based compensation
expense of $8 million, significantly offset by excess tax benefits from share-based compensation of $22 million. 

We expect that
cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a
result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results,
timing of product shipments, accounts receivable collections, inventory
management, and the timing of tax and other payments. For additional
discussion, see the Risk Factors listed under Part II, Item 1A of this
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  

Investing activities used $2 million of net
cash for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 compared to $55 million
provided in the same period of fiscal year 2005.  Our net
proceeds from maturities of marketable securities were $10 million during the first
quarter of fiscal year 2006 compared to $72 million during the same period
of fiscal 

32  

year 2005.  
Net cash used for the purchase of property,
plant and equipment was $9 million for both the first quarter of fiscal years 2006
and 2005.  

Financing activities provided net cash of $4 million
for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, compared to net cash of $50 million
used for the same period of fiscal
year 2005. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we received cash proceeds
of $29 million from employee stock option exercises and $22 million in excess
tax benefits from share-based compensation,
which were offset by $39 million used in the repurchase of common
stock and $8 million (the value of withheld shares) used for employees  taxes due
when restricted performance share awards vested.  During
the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, we used $61 million for the repurchase of common stock, which was partially offset by $11 million in
cash proceeds received from employee stock option exercises. 

We expect our capital expenditures, which typically
represent purchases of facilities, manufacturing equipment, office equipment
and furniture and fixtures, to be approximately 4.5% of revenues in fiscal
year 2006.  

Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which
are based on the normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which
arise from uncertainties and conditions in the U.S. and global economies.
Although our cash requirements will fluctuate as a result of the shifting
influences of these factors, we believe that existing cash and cash
equivalents, cash to be generated from operations and our borrowing capability
will be sufficient to satisfy anticipated commitments for capital expenditures
and  other cash requirements through
the next twelve months.  We
currently anticipate that we will continue to utilize our strong liquidity and
cash flows from operations to repurchase our common stock, make strategic
acquisitions, invest in the growth of our products, invest in systems and
processes and invest in expansion of our training and manufacturing capacity.  

Days Sales
Outstanding    

Trade
accounts receivable days of sales outstanding, or DSO, were 92 at December 30,
2005, compared to 85 at December 31, 2004. 
Our accounts receivable and DSO are impacted primarily by timing of
product shipments, collections performance and payment terms.  The increase in DSO for the first quarter of
fiscal year 2006 over the same quarter of fiscal year 2005 was driven primarily
by the continuing shift to a higher proportion of international sales, which
typically have a longer collection cycle than in North America, and to a lesser
extent, the extension of longer payment terms for certain customers and
transactions. Over the short-term, we expect our DSO to increase due to the
geographic mix of our sales.  Over the
long-term, we expect our DSO to be around 80 days.  

Stock Repurchase Program    

On November 21, 2005, we
announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to
6,000,000 shares of our common stock through December 31, 2006 in addition to
the 1,500,000 shares of common stock available for repurchase as of September
30, 2005 under the previously approved program. 
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we paid $39 million
to repurchase 895,100 shares of our common stock.  All shares that have been repurchased have
been retired.  As of December 30, 2005, we
could repurchase up to 6,604,900 shares of our common stock.  The authorization to repurchase 604,900
shares of our common stock expired on December 31, 2005.  

Contractual
Obligations    

There
has been no significant change to the contractual obligations we reported in
our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2005. Total debt as a percentage
of total capital decreased to 9.2%
at December 30, 2005 compared to 9.9%
at September 30, 2005. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities increased
to 2.02 to 1.0 at December 30, 2005
from 1.87 to 1.0 at September 30,
2005.  

Environmental Matters    

We are
subject to a variety of environmental laws around the world regulating the
handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials that do or may
create increased costs for some of our operations.  Although we follow procedures that we
consider appropriate under existing regulations, these procedures can be costly
and we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from
these materials, and, in the event of such an incident, we could be held liable
for any damages that result.  In
addition, we could be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with
environmental laws and regulations. 
These costs, and any future violations or liability under environmental
laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business.  

33  

In
addition, we may be required to incur significant additional costs to comply
with future changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or new laws
and regulations.  For example, several
countries are proposing to require manufacturers to take back, recycle and
dispose of products at the end of the equipment s useful life. The European
Union, or EU, has adopted directives that when implemented will require medical
equipment manufacturers to bear some or all of the cost of product disposal at
the end of the products  useful life, thus creating increased costs for our
operations.  The EU has also adopted a
directive that may require the adoption of restrictions on the use of some
hazardous substances in certain of our products sold in the EU.  This directive could create increased costs
for our operations.  

From
the time we began operating, we handled and disposed of hazardous materials and
wastes following procedures that were considered appropriate under regulations,
if any, existing at the time. We also hired companies to dispose of wastes
generated by our operations. Under various laws (such as the federal Superfund
law) and under our obligations concerning operations before the spin-offs
by the Company of VI and VSEA in 1999 (the  spin-offs ), we are overseeing
environmental cleanup projects from our pre-spin-offs operations,
and as applicable, reimbursing third parties (such as the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency or other responsible parties) for cleanup activities. Under
the terms of the agreement governing the spin-offs, VI and VSEA are each
obligated to indemnify us for one-third of these environmental cleanup costs
(after adjusting for any insurance proceeds realized or tax benefits recognized
by us). The cleanup projects we are overseeing are being conducted under the
direction of or in consultation with relevant regulatory agencies. We estimate
these cleanup projects will take from approximately 10 years to approximately
30 years to complete. As described below, we have accrued a total of $16.2 million
at December 30, 2005 to cover our liabilities for these cleanup projects:  

Our
estimate of future costs to complete certain cleanup activities ranges from
$3.7 million to $7.1 million. For these estimates, we have not
discounted the costs to present dollars because of the uncertainties that make
it difficult to develop a best estimate and have accrued $3.7 million,
which is the amount at the low end of the range. 

For
other cleanup projects, we have sufficient knowledge to develop better
estimates of our future costs.  Formal
agreements with other parties defining the Company s future liabilities or
formal cleanup plans for these sites have been approved by or completed in
accordance with requirements of the state or federal environmental agency with
jurisdiction over the site.  While our
estimate of future costs to complete these cleanup projects, including
reimbursements to third-party claims, ranges from $10.3 million to $45.6 million,
our best estimate within that range is $18.6 million. For these projects
we have accrued $12.5 million; which is our best estimate of the $18.6 million
discounted to present dollars at 4%, net of inflation. 

When we
developed the estimates above, we considered the financial strength of other
potentially responsible parties. These amounts are, however, only estimates and
may be revised in the future as we get more information on these projects. We
may also spend more or less than these estimates. Based on current information,
we believe that our reserves are adequate,
but as the scope of our obligations becomes more clearly defined, these
reserves (and the associated indemnification obligations of VI and VSEA) may be
modified and related charges/credits against earnings may be made.  

We
receive certain cash payments in the form of settlements and judgments from
defendants, its insurers and other third parties from time to time. We have
also reached an agreement with an insurance company under which the insurance
company has agreed to pay a portion of our past and future environmental-related
expenditures, and we therefore had included a $3.2 million receivable in  Other
assets  at December 30, 2005. We believe that this receivable is recoverable
because it is based on a binding, written settlement agreement with a solvent
and financially viable insurance company and the insurance company has in the
past paid the claims that we have made.  

Our
present and past facilities have been in operation for many years, and over
that time in the course of those operations, these facilities have used
substances, that are or might be considered hazardous, and we have generated
and disposed of wastes, that are or might be considered hazardous. Therefore,
it is possible that additional environmental issues may arise in the future
that we cannot now predict.  

Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangements    

In
conjunction with the sale of our products in the ordinary course of business,
we provide standard indemnification of business partners and customers for losses
suffered or incurred for patent, copyright or any other intellectual property
infringement claims by any third parties with respect to our products.  The term of these indemnification
arrangements is generally perpetual. The maximum potential amount of future
payments we could be required to make under these agreements is unlimited.  As of December 30, 2005, we have not incurred
any costs since the spin-offs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to
these indemnification arrangements.  

34  

We have
entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers that
may require us to indemnify our directors and officers against liabilities that
may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers, and to
advance their expenses incurred as a result of any legal proceeding against
them as to which they could be indemnified. 
Generally, the maximum obligation under such indemnifications is not
explicitly stated and, as a result, the overall amount of these obligations
cannot be reasonably estimated.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements   

In December 2004, the  FASB issued Staff Position ( FSP ) No. 109-2,   Accounting
and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within
the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004   ( FSP 109-2 ), which
provides guidance under SFAS No. 109,   Accounting for Income
Taxes   ( SFAS 109 )     , with respect
to recording the potential impact of the repatriation provisions of the Jobs
Creation Act on enterprises  income tax expense and deferred tax
liability.  The Jobs Creation Act was
enacted on October 22, 2004.  FSP
109-2 states that an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting
period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Jobs Creation Act on its plan
for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying
SFAS 109.  We have not yet completed our
evaluation of the impact of the repatriation provisions but currently
expect to be in a position to finalize our assessment by the third quarter of
fiscal year 2006.  Based on our analysis
to date, however, it is reasonably possible that we may repatriate up to $175
million, with a related tax liability of up to $16 million. 

Item
3.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

We are exposed to two primary types of market risks:
foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk.  

Foreign Currency
Exchange Rate Risk   

As a global entity, we are exposed to movements in
foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as
business practices evolve. Adverse movements could have a material negative
impact on our financial results. Our primary exposures related to foreign
currency denominated sales and purchases are in Europe, Asia and Australia.  

We have
significant transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain
financial exposures through a controlled program of risk management that
includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We sell products throughout
the world, often in the currency of the customer s country, and typically hedge most of these firmly
committed foreign currency sales orders. These firmly committed foreign
currency sales orders, excluding the amounts relating to the products made
outside of the United States, are hedged with forward exchange contracts. We
enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to reduce the
effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. We do not enter into forward exchange contracts for speculative or
trading purposes. The forward exchange contracts range from one to
twelve months in original maturity. As of December 30, 2005, we did not have
any forward exchange contracts with an original maturity greater than twelve
months, but we may hedge beyond twelve months in the future.  

We also hedge the balance sheet
exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units having U.S.
dollar functional currencies.  We enter
into monthly foreign currency forward exchange contracts to minimize the
short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities
denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar functional currency.  

The
notional value of sold forward exchange contracts for both hedges of foreign
currency denominated sales orders and balance sheet exposures from our
subsidiaries outstanding as of December 30, 2005 totaled $453.3 million. The notional value of
purchased forward exchange contracts for both hedges of foreign currency
denominated sales orders and balance sheet exposures from our subsidiaries
outstanding as of December 30, 2005 totaled $4.4 million.  The
notional amounts of forward exchange contracts are not a measure of our
exposure.  The fair value of
forward exchange contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we
would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby
taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains
or losses of the open contracts.   A move in foreign currency exchange rates
would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the
underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar
offsetting manner.  Accordingly, we believe that our hedging
strategy should yield no material net impact to our results of operations or
cash flows. 

Interest Rate Risk   

Our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates
depends primarily on our investment portfolio. Currently,  our investment
portfolio consists of cash and cash equivalents and highly liquid short-term
marketable securities, as well as a  

35  

small
amount of long-term marketable securities. 
In the unlikely event that interest rates were to decrease
substantially, we might reinvest a substantial portion of our investment
portfolio at lower interest rates. We would consider additional debt
obligations to support general corporate purposes, including working capital
requirements, capital expenditures and acquisitions. To date, we have not used
derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate in our investment
portfolio or long-term debt, but may consider the use of derivative instruments
in the future.  

The
principal amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at
December 30, 2005 totaled $389 million
with a weighted average interest rate of 3.04% and an estimated average tax equivalent yield of 3.52%. 
All of our marketable securities at December 30, 2005 were in municipal
bonds. Our investment portfolio of marketable securities is primarily
classified as held-to-maturity (with the exception of our auction rate
securities which are classified as available-for-sale), and any gains or losses
relating to changes in interest rates would occur in the unlikely event of
liquidation of all or part of the investment portfolio. Our debt of $60.0 million at December 30, 2005
carried a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.89% with principal payments due in various installments over a nine-year
period.  

The estimated fair value
of our cash and cash equivalents and
marketable securities  (64% of which
was held in international jurisdictions at December 30, 2005 and could be
subject to additional taxation if it was repatriated in the United
States) approximated the principal
amounts set forth above based on the maturities of these financial instruments.  

Although
payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to
market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest
rate risk.  

Item 4.       Controls and Procedures   

(a)                Disclosure
controls and procedures.  Based on
the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the  Exchange Act )) required by Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(b)
or 15d-15(b), our principal executive officer and principal financial
officer have concluded that as of the
end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange
Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and include
controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by us in such reports is accumulated and communicated to our
management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial
officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. 

(b)             Changes
in internal control over financial reporting.  There were no changes in our
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the first quarter
of fiscal year 2006 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 

36  

PART II   

OTHER INFORMATION   

Item 1.  Legal Proceedings   

We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims
that are discussed in Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements under the caption  Contingencies  and such discussion is
incorporated by reference into this item. We are also subject to certain other
legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of
business.  While we can provide no
assurances as to the ultimate outcome of any litigation, management does not
believe any pending legal proceeding will result in a judgment or settlement
that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

Item 1A.  Risk Factors   

The
following risk factors and other information included in this Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q should be carefully considered. 
The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we
face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we
presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any
of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and
financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ANTICIPATE OR
KEEP PACE WITH CHANGES IN THE MARKETPLACE AND THE DIRECTION OF TECHNOLOGICAL
INNOVATION AND CUSTOMER DEMANDS, OUR PRODUCTS MAY BECOME LESS USEFUL OR
OBSOLETE AND OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL SUFFER    

The
marketplace for our Oncology Systems products is characterized by rapid change
and technological innovation. Because our products often have long development
and government approval cycles, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace
and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands. For
example, most of our recent product introductions in our Oncology Systems
business segment have related to IMRT and the relatively new technology of
IGRT, and enhancements of existing products through greater systems integration
and simplification.  

We
believe that IMRT has become a well-accepted standard of treatment in the
radiation oncology market; however, if future studies fail to confirm the
effectiveness of IMRT or our products or show negative side effects, or if
other more effective technologies are introduced, our revenues could fail to
increase or could decrease.  Our success
will depend upon the continued growth in awareness, acceptance and success of
IMRT in general and acceptance of our products utilizing this technology in
particular.  However, as more
institutions purchase IMRT-equipped linear accelerators or upgrade their
existing accelerators with IMRT technology, the market for IMRT-related
products may become saturated and we will face competition from newer
technologies.  We have seen and continue
to expect that the rate of growth for IMRT-related equipment will be lower than
what we have experienced previously, particularly in the North American market,
as over 50% of our customer sites worldwide have the products and accessories
necessary to perform the most advanced forms of IMRT.  Our future success, therefore, will depend on
our ability to accurately anticipate and capitalize on new customer demands
through technological innovations and changes, including new technologies for
treatment such as IGRT.  

IGRT is
an emerging radiation therapy treatment methodology that complements IMRT.  We are currently investing in product
development to design new classes of imaging products for IGRT treatment as
well as enhancements to existing products to enable IGRT treatment
capabilities. We believe IGRT is the next generation in radiotherapy treatment
of cancers, combining IMRT treatment with sophisticated real-time imaging and
visualization systems, and that it will be a driver of growth in our Oncology
Systems business over the next several years. 
IGRT, while recognized as a new technology driver in radiation therapy,
is nevertheless a nascent technology that is not yet widely accepted or
adopted.  Our future success depends upon
the wide spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the radiation oncology
market of IGRT and our IGRT products as an evolutionary technology and
methodology for radiotherapy treatment of cancers.  IMRT drove high order and revenue growth in
North America from 1999 to 2003. Hospitals and clinics are still converting to
this new clinical process, resulting in slower North American growth.  There are indications that IGRT will drive a
further growth phase after clinicians have absorbed IMRT and after our early
IGRT sites demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of IGRT.  If our assumptions regarding the future
importance of IGRT are incorrect, if IGRT fails to be effective as a treatment
methodology or if IGRT fails to become widely accepted, our orders and revenues
could fail to increase or could decrease.  

As
radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly
concerned about the integration and simplicity of use of our various products
for treating patients.  For example, our
linear accelerators, treatment simulators,  

37  

treatment
verification products and treatment planning and information management
software products are highly sophisticated and require a high level of training
and education in order to competently and safely use such products.  The complexity and training requirements are
further increased since our products are designed so that they are capable of
operating together within integrated treatment systems.  We have directed substantial product
development efforts into tighter integration of our products for more seamless
operation within a system and into simplifying the usability through more
intuitive user interfaces and greater software intelligence, while maintaining
an  open systems  approach that allows customers the flexibility to  mix and
match  individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers,
share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for
offering various modalities of radiation therapy treatment methodologies.  We anticipate that these efforts will
increase the acceptance and adoption of IMRT and IGRT and will foster greater
demand for our products from new customers and upgrades from existing
customers.  Conversely, one competitor is
offering linear accelerator products that are  closed-ended , dedicated-use
systems that emphasize simplicity of use while sacrificing the ability for
customers to customize the system to their individual needs, incorporate
products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or
products, or using the equipment for differing modalities of radiation therapy
treatment methodologies.  If we have
misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an  open systems 
approach while enabling greater integration and simplicity-of-use or if we are
unsuccessful in these efforts to enable greater integration and enhance
simplicity-of-use efforts, our revenues could fail to increase or could
decrease.  

Our
X-ray Products business segment sells products primarily to large diagnostic
imaging systems companies, some of which also manufacture X-ray tubes for their
own systems.  We, therefore, compete with
these in-house X-ray tube manufacturing operations for business from their
affiliated systems businesses.  To
succeed, we must provide X-ray tube products that meet our customer demands for
lower cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and
performance.  If we are unable to
continue to innovate our X-ray tube technology and anticipate our customers 
demands in the areas of cost, quality, technology and performance, then our
revenues could fail to increase or could decrease as our customers purchase
from their internal manufacturing operations or from other independent X-ray
tube manufacturers.  

We may
be unable to accurately anticipate changes in our markets and the direction of
technological innovation and demands of our customers, our competitors may
develop improved products or processes, or the marketplace may conclude that
the task our products were designed to do is no longer an element of a
generally accepted diagnostic or treatment regimen.  If this occurs, the market for our products
may be adversely affected and they may become less useful or obsolete. Any
development adversely affecting the market for our products would force us to
reduce production volumes or to discontinue manufacturing one or more of our
products or product lines and would reduce our revenues and earnings.  

IF
WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP NEW GENERATIONS OF PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO
EXISTING PRODUCTS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ATTRACT OR RETAIN CUSTOMERS OR GAIN
ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS BY CUSTOMERS    

Our
success depends upon the successful development, introduction and
commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems and
enhancements to and/or simplification of existing products.  Our Oncology Systems products are
technologically complex and must keep pace with rapid and significant
technological change, comply with rapidly evolving industry standards and
compete effectively with new product introductions of our competitors.  Our X-ray Products business segment must also
continually innovate to develop products with lower cost, better product
quality and superior technology and performance in order to effectively compete
with the affiliated X-ray tube manufacturing operations of many of our customers.  Accordingly, many of our products require
significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological,
product and manufacturing process levels. These activities require significant
capital commitments and investments on our part, which we may be unable to
recover. In addition, a few of our research and development projects are funded
by government contracts. Changes in government priorities and our ability to
attract such funding may affect our overall research effort and ultimately, our
ability to develop successful new products and product enhancements.  

Our
ability to successfully develop and introduce new products, treatment systems
and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs
associated with these efforts, are affected by our ability to:  

properly
identify customer needs; 

prove
feasibility of new products; 

limit
the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; 

limit
the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; 

38  

accurately
predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in
of new products and phase-out of old products; 

price
our products competitively; 

manufacture and
deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and
control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and
maintenance of the products; 

manage
customer acceptance and payment for products; 

manage
customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and 

anticipate
and compete successfully with competitors  efforts. 

Additionally,
our ability to gain healthcare market acceptance and demand for our new
Oncology Systems products and treatment procedures may be also affected by the
budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases which
frequently fix budgets one or more years in advance.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to
successfully develop, manufacture and phase in new products, treatment systems
or product enhancements.  Without the
successful introduction of new products and product enhancements, we may be
unable to attract and retain customers and our revenues and operating results
will suffer. In addition, even if customers accept new products or product
enhancements, the revenues from such products may not be sufficient to offset
the significant costs associated with making such products available to
customers or we may have longer sales and ordering timeframes due to customer
budgeting cycles.  

A
HIGH PERCENTAGE OF OUR SALES ARE INTERNATIONAL, AND ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND
OTHER RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS COULD ADVERSELY
AFFECT OUR SALES OR MAKE THEM LESS PREDICTABLE    

We
conduct business globally. Our international revenues accounted for
approximately 48% and 46% of revenues during the first quarter of fiscal years
2006 and 2005, respectively. As a result, we must provide significant service
and support on a worldwide basis, and we have sales and service offices located
throughout Europe, Asia, Latin America and Australia. In addition, we have
manufacturing and research operations in England, Germany, Switzerland, France
and Finland.  We have invested
substantial financial and management resources to develop an international
infrastructure to meet the needs of our customers. We intend to continue to
expand our presence in international markets, although we cannot be sure we
will be able to compete successfully in the international market or meet the
service and support needs of such customers. Accordingly, our future results
could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:  

the difficulties in enforcing
agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country s legal
systems; 

the longer payment cycles associated
with many foreign customers; 

the possibility that foreign
countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign
income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; 

the fact that international regions
typically have a longer period from shipment to revenue recognition resulting
in continued increases in revenue recognition deferrals and higher backlog; 

our ability to obtain U.S. export
licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; 

failure to comply with U.S. export
laws and requirements which may result in civil or criminal penalties and
restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our industrial
linear accelerator products; 

changes in the political, regulatory,
safety or economic conditions in a country or region; and 

the possibility that it may be more
difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. 

Also,
historically our international sales have had lower average selling prices and
gross margins.  So, as the geographic
distribution of our orders and sales shifts increasingly towards our
international regions, our overall rate of orders growth (measured in U.S.
dollars) could slow down and overall revenues and gross margins may be
negatively affected.  

39  

OUR
RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CHANGES IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES    

Since
we sell our products internationally and have international operations, we are
also subject to market risk due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates, which may affect product demand, our expenses and/or the profitability
in U.S. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets
where payment for our products and services or of our expenses is made in the
local currency.  We manage this risk
through established policies and procedures that include the use of derivative
financial instruments. We have historically entered into foreign currency
forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of operational (sales
orders) and balance sheet exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates. Our forward exchange contracts generally range from one to
twelve months in original maturity.  

Although
we engage in hedging strategies that may offset the effect of fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide will
be affected by the timing of transactions, the effectiveness of the hedges
(measured by how closely the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument
offset the changes in fair value of the hedged item), forecast volatility and
the extent of movement of foreign currency exchange rates. If our hedging
strategies are not effective in offsetting the effect of fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates, our operating results may be harmed.  

In
addition, long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates could affect
the competitiveness of our products. 
Even though sales of our products internationally occurs predominantly
in local currencies, our cost structure is largely U.S. dollar based, and some
of our competitors may have cost structures based in other currencies, so our
overall margins and pricing competitiveness may be adversely affected.  In fact, in the recent past, we have
benefited from the relatively weak U.S. dollar that has made our pricing more
competitive with our foreign competitors. 
This has been a contributor to our international order and revenue
growth.  Any significant strengthening of
the U.S. dollar against other countries  currencies may result in slower growth
in our international orders and revenues, which then could negatively affect
our overall financial performance and results. 
The relative weakness of the U.S. dollar against other currencies has
been a subject of policy discussions within the U.S. government and among other
countries  governments.  Changes in
monetary or other policies will likely affect such foreign currency exchange
rates.  

WE
FACE SIGNIFICANT COSTS IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLICABLE
TO THE MANUFACTURE AND DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS, AND IF WE FAIL OR ARE
DELAYED IN OBTAINING REGULATORY APPROVALS OR FAIL TO COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE
REGULATIONS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO DISTRIBUTE OUR PRODUCTS OR MAY BE SUBJECT TO
CIVIL OR CRIMINAL PENALTIES    

Many of
our products and the products of OEMs that incorporate our products are subject
to extensive and rigorous government regulation of the manufacture and
distribution of our products, both in the United States and in foreign
countries.  Compliance with these laws
and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and changes to or failure to
comply with these laws and regulations, or adoption of new laws and regulations,
could adversely affect our business.  

In the
United States, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices
utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and
distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental
authorities, such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and state
and local regulatory agencies, such as the State of California, to ensure such
devices are safe and effective.  Such
regulations, which include the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC
Act, and regulations promulgated by the FDA, govern the design, development,
testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export,
possession, marketing, transportation, disposal, clinical investigations
involving humans, sale and marketing of medical devices, post-market
surveillance, repairs, replacements, recalls and other matters relating to
medical devices, radiation producing devices and devices utilizing radioactive
by-product material. State regulations are extensive and vary from state to
state. Our Oncology Systems equipment and software products constitute medical
devices subject to these regulations. 
Our X-ray tube products and our flat panel detectors are also considered
medical devices. Future products in any of our business segments may constitute
medical devices and be subject to regulation as such.  These laws require that manufacturers adhere
to certain standards designed to ensure that the medical devices are safe and
effective. Under the FDC Act, each medical device manufacturer must comply with
requirements applicable to manufacturing practices.  

The FDA
generally requires that medical devices receive FDA 510(k) pre-market
notification clearance or an approved pre-market approval application, or PMA,
before we, as a manufacturer of such devices, can take orders for or distribute
those products in the United States.  In
addition, modifications or enhancements to these products that could
significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or constitute a major change in
intended use, require further FDA clearance or approval. Obtaining FDA market
clearances or approvals can be time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. We may
fail to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals or may be unduly delayed
in doing so. Furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances, the  

40  

clearances
may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which
may limit the market for those products. The FDA review process typically
requires extended proceedings pertaining to the safety and efficacy of new
products, which may delay or hinder a product s timely entry into the
marketplace.  If we were unable to
achieve required FDA approval or clearance for a product, or were limited or
unduly delayed in doing so, our business would suffer.  In addition, our products have either been
Class 1 medical devices (our X-ray tube and flat panel detectors), which
require no pre-market approvals or clearances, or Class 2 medical devices (our Oncology
Systems products, with the exception of industrial products), which requires
only the 510(k) pre-market notification clearance. The 510(k) clearance process
is less time-consuming, expensive and uncertain than the PMA approval process.
If we were required to use the PMA approval process for future products or
product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed
products or modifications, and could cause our business to suffer.  

In
addition to FDA-required market clearances and approvals, our manufacturing
operations are required to comply with the FDA s Quality System Regulation, or
QSR, which addresses the quality program requirements such as a company s
management responsibility for the company s quality systems, and good manufacturing
practices, product design, controls, methods, facilities and quality assurance
controls used in manufacturing, assembly, packing, storing and installing
medical devices.  Compliance with the QSR
is necessary to receive FDA clearance or approval to market new products and is
necessary for us to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product
offerings.  The FDA makes announced and
unannounced inspections to determine compliance with the QSR and may issue 483
reports listing instances where we have failed to comply with applicable
regulations and/or procedures or Warning Letters which, if not adequately
responded to, could lead to enforcement actions against us, including fines,
the total shutdown of our production facilities and criminal prosecution.  

The FDA
and the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, also regulate the promotion and
advertising of our products that are medical devices to ensure that the claims
that are made are not  off-label  from the intended use stated in the 510(k)
clearance for the products and also there is scientific data to substantiate
such claim. The FDA and FTC determinations on these matters can be subjective,
and we cannot assure you that the FDA or FTC would agree that all or our
promotional claims are permissible.  If
the FDA or FTC determined that any of our promotional claims were not
permissible, we may be required to revise our promotional claims or may be
subject to enforcement actions.  

As a
manufacturer of medical devices utilizing radioactive byproduct material, we
are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating
to their manufacture, distribution, transportation, import/export, possession,
use and disposal.  Our medical devices
utilizing radioactive byproduct material are subject to the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, or NRC, clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture
and sale of these products are subject to state regulation that is extensive
and varies from state to state.  Our
manufacture and distribution of medical devices utilizing byproduct material
also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these
devices and materials.  Service of these
products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials
license.  We are also subject to a
variety of additional environmental laws regulating our manufacturing
operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous
materials, and imposing liability for the cleanup of contamination from these
materials.  

As a
participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws
and regulations in addition to FDA regulation on a broad array of additional
subjects at the federal, state and local levels.  These include laws and regulations protecting
the privacy and integrity of patient medical information, including the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA,  fraud and
abuse  laws and regulations such as physician self-referral prohibitions,
anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. We also must comply with numerous
federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such
matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard
control.  

If we
or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with FDA and other
applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed
to comply, it can result in a wide variety of actions, such as:  

adverse publicity affecting both us
and our customers; 

investigations, 483 reports of
non-compliance or Warning Letters; 

fines, injunctions, and civil
penalties; 

partial suspensions or total shutdown
of production, or the imposition of operating restrictions; 

losses of clearances or approvals
already granted, or the refusal of future requests for clearance or approval; 

seizures or recalls of our products; 

41  

the inability to sell our products in
the applicable jurisdiction; and 

criminal prosecutions. 

Government
regulation also may delay for a considerable period of time or prevent the
marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may
develop, and/or impose costly requirements on our business. In addition,
changes in existing regulations or adoption of new regulations could affect the
timing of, or prevent us from obtaining, future regulatory approvals, or could
otherwise adversely affect our business.  

Our
operations and sales of our products outside the United States are subject to
regulatory requirements that vary from country to country, and may differ
significantly from those in the United States. 
In general, our products are regulated outside the United States as
medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the FDA and the
FTC. We are also subject to laws and regulations outside the United States
applicable to manufacturers of medical devices, radiation producing devices and
products utilizing radioactive materials, and laws and regulations of general
applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe
working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters, in each case
that are often comparable, if not more stringent, than regulation in the United
States.  Our sales of products in foreign
countries are also subject to regulation of matters such as product standards,
packaging requirements, labeling requirements, environmental and product
recycling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax
requirements. We rely in some countries on our foreign distributors to assist
us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements. We may be required to
incur significant time and expense in obtaining and maintaining non-U.S.
regulatory approvals and in complying with non-U.S. laws and regulations.  Delays in receipt of or failure to receive
such approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply
with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from
doing business in the applicable country or subject us to a variety of
enforcement actions, which would adversely affect our business.  

It is
also important that our products comply with electrical safety and
environmental standards, such as those of Underwriters Laboratories, the
Canadian Standards Association, and the International Electrotechnical
Commission. If one or more of our products fail to comply with these standards,
we may be unable to obtain or maintain registrations to sell our products,
demand for our products may diminish, or we may be subject to other enforcement
actions.  

The
laws and regulations applicable to us and our business and their enforcement
are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any,
changes may have on our business.  In
addition, new laws and regulations may be adopted which adversely affect our
business. There has been a trend in recent years, both in the United States and
foreign countries, toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of
requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers. The continuing trend
of more stringent regulatory oversight in product clearance and enforcement
activities may cause medical device manufacturers to experience more
uncertainty, greater risk and higher expenses. 
There is a continuing trend for governments around the world, including
the United States and Canada, to start charging fees for the review of
pre-market notification clearances.  

BECAUSE OUR PRODUCTS INVOLVE THE DELIVERY OF RADIATION AND DIAGNOSTIC
IMAGING OF THE HUMAN BODY AND ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE REGULATION, PRODUCT
DEFECTS MAY RESULT IN MATERIAL PRODUCT LIABILITY OR PROFESSIONAL ERRORS AND
OMISSIONS CLAIMS, INVESTIGATION BY REGULATORY AUTHORITIES OR PRODUCT RECALLS
THAT COULD HARM FUTURE REVENUES AND REQUIRE US TO PAY MATERIAL UNINSURED CLAIMS    

Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are
inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of
medical devices and software. Because our products involve the delivery of
radiation to the human body, collection and storage of patient treatment data
for physicians  use, and the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic
imaging of the human body, the possibility for significant injury and/or death
exists. The tolerance for error in the design, manufacture, installation,
servicing, support or use of our products may be small or nonexistent. Our
products are used as part of an overall process that takes place within our
customers  facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance (QA)
procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery
of radiation to patients. As with any high technology product, the possibility
of operator error exists.  As such, we
may face substantial liability to patients for damages resulting from the
faulty design, manufacture, installation, servicing or support or the misuse of
our products.  We may also be subject to
claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any
errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support
of our product, or any professional services rendered in conjunction with our
products.  Additionally, errors or
accidents in treatment may arise from the fact that our products operate in
complex environments with products from other vendors, where interoperability
or data sharing protocol may not be optimized. 
In any accident case, we could be subject to legal costs, adverse
publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our  

42  

products or services were a factor. 
Furthermore, adverse publicity regarding accidents or mistreatments
involving radiation therapy could adversely impact our business by negatively
affecting the reputation of radiation therapy in general, causing patients to
question the efficacy of radiation therapy as a viable treatment for cancer and
seek other modalities of treatment instead.  

In addition, if a product we designed or manufactured is defective,
whether due to design or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or
other reasons, we may be required to notify regulatory authorities and/or to
recall the product, possibly at our expense. A required notification to a
regulatory authority or voluntary recall could result in an investigation by
regulatory authorities of our products, which could in turn result in required
recalls, restrictions on the sale of the products or other civil or criminal
penalties.  Such recalls may also result in
unexpected financial accruals under GAAP that may cause our quarterly results
to fluctuate.  The adverse publicity
resulting from any of these actions could cause customers to review and
potentially terminate their relationships with us. These investigations or
recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity or termination of
customer contracts, could result in our incurring substantial costs and
management time, losing revenues and damaging our reputation, each of which
would harm our business.  

We maintain limited product liability insurance coverage in amounts we
deem sufficient for our business and currently self-insure professional
liability/errors and omission liability. The product liability insurance
policies that we maintain are expensive and have high deductible amounts and
self-insured retentions. In the future, these policies may not be available on
acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all.  In addition, the insurance coverage we have
obtained may not be adequate. A successful material claim brought against us
relating to a self-insured liability or a liability that is in excess of our
insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited would
require us to pay damage amounts that could be substantial and have a material
adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation.  

THE
MARKETS IN WHICH WE COMPETE ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, AND WE MAY LOSE MARKET
SHARE TO COMPANIES WITH GREATER RESOURCES OR WHICH ARE ABLE TO DEVELOP MORE
EFFECTIVE TECHNOLOGIES, OR WE COULD BE FORCED TO REDUCE OUR PRICES    

The
markets for radiation therapy equipment and software are characterized by
rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. Many of
the companies with which our Oncology Systems compete have greater financial,
marketing and other resources than we have. 
Also, we expect that the rapid technological changes occurring in our
markets will lead to the entry of new competitors into our markets, as well as
our encountering new competitors as we apply our technologies in new markets
such as stereotactic radiosurgery for neurosurgical treatments. Our ability to
compete successfully depends in part on our ability to provide technologically
superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective,
high quality clinical outcomes, together in a complete package of products and
services, and to do so ahead of our competitors.  Our ability to compete in the radiation
therapy market may be adversely affected when purchase decisions are based
solely upon price since our products are generally sold on a total value to the
customer basis.  This may occur if
hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing
organizations that focus solely on pricing as the primary determinant in making
purchase decisions.  In our sales of
linear accelerator products for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, we compete
primarily with Siemens Medical Solutions, Elekta AB, Tomotherapy Incorporated
and Accuray Incorporated.  We compete
with a variety of companies, such as Elekta AB/IMPAC Medical Systems, Inc.,
Philips Medical Systems, Computerized Medical Systems, Inc., North American
Scientific, Inc. and Nucletron B.V. in our software products, treatment
simulation and verification products and accessories product lines.  In respect of our BrachyTherapy business, our
primary competitor is Nucletron B.V.  For
the service and maintenance business for our products, we compete with
independent service organizations and our customers  internal service
organizations.  

The
market for X-ray imaging components and subsystems is extremely competitive,
with our competitors frequently having greater financial, marketing and other
resources than we have. All of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies,
which are the primary customers for our X-ray tubes, also manufacture X-ray
tubes for use in their own products. We must compete with these in-house X-ray
tube manufacturing operations that are naturally favored by their affiliated
companies. As a result, we must have a competitive advantage in one or more
significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality
or superior technology and performance. We sell a significant volume of our
X-ray tube products to companies such as Toshiba Corporation, Hitachi Medical
Corporation, Shimadzu Corporation, Philips Medical Systems and GE, all of which
have in-house X-ray tube production capability. In addition, we compete against
other stand-alone X-ray tube manufacturers such as Comet AG and IAE Industria
Applicazioni Elettroniche Spa.  

In each
of our business segments, existing competitors  actions and new entrants may
adversely affect our ability to compete. These competitors could develop
technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use
or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. In
addition, the timing of competitors  introduction of products  

43  

into
the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our
products.  Some competitors offer
specialized products which are perceived by some healthcare providers to
provide a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products.  Also, we could be competitively disadvantaged
by some competitors who are not governed by or operate under the same business
standards or requirements as us.  If we
are unable to develop competitive products, gain regulatory approval and supply
commercial quantities of such products to the market as quickly and effectively
as our competitors, market acceptance of our products may be limited and our
sales reduced.  In addition, some of our
smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater
financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. Some
of our suppliers or distributors could also be acquired by competitors, which
could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less
predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses.   Therefore, the impact of any such factors
could have a negative effect on our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and
gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins.  

INTEROPERABILITY
OF OUR PRODUCTS WITH ONE ANOTHER AND THEIR COMPATIBILITY WITH THIRD- PARTY
PRODUCTS IS BECOMING INCREASINGLY IMPORTANT, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAKE OUR
PRODUCTS INTEROPERATE WITH ONE ANOTHER OR COMPATIBLE WITH WIDELY USED
THIRD-PARTY PRODUCTS, SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD DECREASE    

As
radiation oncology treatment becomes more and more complex, our customers are
increasingly concerned about the interoperability and compatibility of the
various products they use in providing treatment to patients.  For example, our linear accelerators,
treatment simulators, treatment verification products and treatment planning
and information management software products are designed to interoperate with
one another, and to be compatible with other widely used third-party radiation
oncology products. Obtaining and maintaining this interoperability and
compatibility is costly and time-consuming, and when third parties modify the
design or functionality of their products, it can require us to modify our
products to ensure compatibility. Conversely, when we implement design
improvements to our products, third-party providers of software network already
in place in clinics could slow adoption of our new technology by not providing
proper interfaces.  In addition, our
ability to obtain compatibility with third-party products can depend on the
third parties providing us with adequate information regarding their products.
These third parties are in many cases our competitors and accordingly the
timing of their product changes, and of sharing relevant information with us,
may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we could be required to
obtain additional regulatory clearances for any modification of our products.
It is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we might be unable to make
our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products
or might only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products
less attractive or more costly to our customers.  

WE
MAY INCUR SUBSTANTIAL COSTS IN PROTECTING OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, AND IF WE
ARE NOT ABLE TO DO SO, OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION WOULD BE HARMED    

We file
applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing
processes. We cannot be sure, however, that our patents, patents that will be
issued from any of our pending or future patent applications or patents for
technologies licensed to us, or that the claims allowed under any issued
patents, will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against
competitors. Issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged,
invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patent may not
provide us with competitive advantages. We could incur substantial costs and
diversion of management resources if we have to assert our patent rights
against others in litigation or other legal proceeding. An unfavorable outcome
to any such litigation or proceeding could harm us. In addition, we may not be
able to detect infringement or may lose competitive position in the market
before we do so.  

We also
rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and
contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title,
including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers,
employees, consultants and other third parties, to protect our proprietary
rights. We cannot assure you that such protections will prove adequate, that
contractual agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate
remedies for any such breaches, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise
become known to or independently developed by others. We have trademarks, both
registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide
customer recognition for our products in the marketplace. We cannot assure you
that our trademarks will not be used by unauthorized third parties. We also
have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or
proprietary technologies. If we were to lose the rights to license these
technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially
increase, our business would suffer.  

44  

THIRD PARTIES MAY CLAIM WE ARE
INFRINGING THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, AND WE COULD SUFFER SIGNIFICANT
LITIGATION OR LICENSING EXPENSES OR BE PREVENTED FROM SELLING OUR PRODUCTS    

The
industries in which we compete are characterized by a substantial amount of
litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. Our competitors,
like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other
companies  products for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property
rights.  Determining whether a product
infringes a third party s intellectual property rights involves complex legal
and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often
uncertain. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual
property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property
rights.  While we do not believe that any
of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third
parties, we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that
relate to our products, services or technologies. From time to time, we have
received notices from third parties or are subject to lawsuits alleging infringement
of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. Any contest
regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and
time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our
business operations.  We cannot assure
you that we would prevail in any such contest. 
We also do not maintain insurance for such intellectual property
infringement.  Therefore, if we are
unsuccessful in defending any such infringement claim, we may be subject to
significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of our
products, or may be required to enter into costly royalty or license
agreements.  We cannot assure you that
any licenses required would be made available on acceptable terms or at all.  

SINCE WE DEPEND UPON A LIMITED GROUP
OF SUPPLIERS, AND IN SOME CASES SOLE SOURCE SUPPLIERS, FOR SOME PRODUCT
COMPONENTS, THE LOSS OF A SUPPLIER OR ANY INABILITY TO SUPPLY SUCH COMPONENTS
COULD REDUCE OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE PRODUCTS, CAUSE MATERIAL DELAYS IN OUR
ABILITY TO DELIVER PRODUCTS, OR SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE OUR COSTS    

We
obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our products from a
limited group of suppliers, or in some cases a single-source supplier, for
example, the source wires for high-dose afterloaders; klystrons for linear
accelerators; imaging panels, non-coated array sensors and coating for array
sensors for the flat panel detectors; specialized integrated circuits for
imaging subassemblies; and some targets, housings and glass bulbs for X-ray
tubes.  If we lose any of these
suppliers, we would be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement
suppliers, which may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to
incorporate such new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance,
qualification or certification of such product by the FDA or other applicable
regulatory approvals in other countries. Such an event would likely cause
material delays in delivery and could significantly increase costs for the
affected product.  Although we have
obtained limited insurance to protect against business interruption loss, there
can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage
will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all.  Additionally, manufacturing capacity
limitations of any of these suppliers and the inability of these suppliers to
be able to meet increasing demand are also possibilities that could adversely
affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for any of our product
lines and higher costs of manufacturing for us as prices increase for such
components and subassemblies due to shortage and greater demand. Disruptions or
loss of any of our limited- or sole-source components or subassemblies or the
capacity limitations of the suppliers for such components or subassemblies,
including the ones referenced above, could adversely affect our business and
financial results and could damage our customer relationships.  

WE
SELL OUR X-RAY TUBES TO A LIMITED NUMBER OF OEM CUSTOMERS, MANY OF WHOM ARE
ALSO OUR COMPETITORS, AND THE LOSS OR REDUCTION IN PURCHASING VOLUME BY ONE OR
MORE OF THESE CUSTOMERS OR CONSOLIDATION AMONG OEMs IN THE X-RAY TUBE PRODUCTS
MARKET COULD REDUCE OUR SALES OF X-RAY TUBE PRODUCTS    

We sell
our X-ray tube products to a limited number of OEM customers, many of whom are
also our competitors, for incorporation into diagnostic imaging systems.  The loss of, or reduction in purchasing
volume by, one or more of these customers would have a material adverse effect
on our X-ray Products business.  There
has been a consolidation of diagnostic imaging systems manufacturers over the
past few years. The ongoing consolidation of customers, who purchase our X-ray
tube products, including the consolidation of these customers into companies
that already manufacture X-ray tubes, could result in less predictable and
reduced sales of our X-ray tubes products. 
In addition, our OEM customers  products, which use our tubes, could
lose market share to competitive products or technologies and, thereby, result
in a reduction in our orders and revenues.  

45  

WE
SELL OUR LINATRON  X-RAY ACCELERATORS TO OEM CUSTOMERS WHO ARE DEPENDENT UPON
CUSTOMER DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE SCHEDULES, WHICH MAY CAUSE ORDERS FOR OUR SIP
PRODUCTS TO BE UNPREDICTABLE    

Our SIP
business designs, manufactures and sells Linatron X-ray accelerators for
security and inspection purposes.  We
generally sell our accelerators to OEMs who incorporate them into their inspection
products, which are then sold to port authorities and other government
agencies, as well as to commercial private parties.  We believe growth in this business will be
driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by
the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and
taxes.  However, use of linear
accelerator technology in security cargo screening and border protection is in
its early stages and governmental agencies have provided little public information
about plans for adopting such technology. 
Orders for our SIP products may be unpredictable and the actual timing
of sales and revenue recognition will vary significantly as it is difficult to
predict our OEM customer delivery and
acceptance schedules.  

In
addition, our SIP business is heavily influenced by U.S. and foreign
governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and
customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and
appropriations and subject to political changes.  These factors are unpredictable, and may
cause uncertainty and variability in the timing of orders.  Thus, orders in any quarter or period are not
necessarily directly correlated to the level of sales or revenues in any
particular future quarter or period. 
This unpredictability in orders, sales and revenue timing could cause
volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore our stock price.  

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROVIDE THE
SIGNIFICANT EDUCATION AND TRAINING REQUIRED FOR THE HEALTHCARE MARKET TO ACCEPT
OUR PRODUCTS, OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER    

In
order to achieve market acceptance for our Oncology Systems products, we are
often required to educate physicians about the use of a new treatment procedure
such as IMRT and IGRT, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of
the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that
the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its
costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of our products.
For example, the complexity and dynamic nature of IMRT and IGRT requires
significant education of hospitals and physicians regarding the benefits of
IMRT and IGRT and the required departures from their customary practices. We
have expended and will continue to expend significant resources on marketing
and educational efforts to create awareness of IMRT and IGRT generally and to
encourage acceptance and adoption of our products for IMRT and IGRT. The timing
of our competitors  introduction of products and the market acceptance of their
products may also make this educational process more difficult.  We cannot be sure that any products we
develop will gain any significant market acceptance and market share among
physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if required regulatory
approvals are obtained.  

WE
MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN OR EXPAND OUR BUSINESS IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO
RETAIN, HIRE AND INTEGRATE SUFFICIENTLY QUALIFIED PERSONNEL    

Our
future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of
members of our key executive, technical, sales, marketing and engineering
staff. It also depends on our ability to attract, expand, integrate, train and
retain our management team, qualified engineering personnel and technical personnel.
The loss of services of key employees could adversely affect our business.
Competition for such personnel can be intense. 
We compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software
manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research
institutions.  Because the competition
for qualified personnel is intense, costs related to compensation could
increase significantly if supply decreases or demand increases. If we are
unable to hire, train or retain qualified personnel, we will not be able to
maintain and expand our business.  

IF
WE ARE NOT ABLE TO MATCH OUR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY WITH DEMAND FOR OUR
PRODUCTS, OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS MAY SUFFER    

As a
manufacturer of medical devices with a long production cycle, we need to
anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing
capacity.  We cannot assure you that we
will be successfully able to do so.  If
our manufacturing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not
be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner which in turn may have a negative
effect on our financial results and overall business.  Conversely, if demand for our products
decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may
adversely affect our financial results.  

46  

WE
MAY ATTEMPT TO ACQUIRE NEW BUSINESSES, PRODUCTS OR TECHNOLOGIES, AND IF WE ARE
UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE THESE ACQUISITIONS OR TO INTEGRATE ACQUIRED
BUSINESSES, PRODUCTS, TECHNOLOGY OR EMPLOYEES, WE MAY FAIL TO REALIZE EXPECTED
BENEFITS OR HARM OUR EXISTING BUSINESS    

Our
success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings
and grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands
and competitive pressures.   In some
circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of
complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal
development. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2005, we acquired Sigma Micro
Informatique Conseil, a privately held French supplier of information
management software for radiation oncology and medical oncology.  The identification of suitable acquisition
candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able
to successfully complete identified acquisitions.  Furthermore, even if we successfully complete
an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired
organizations, products or technologies into our operations, and the process of
integration could be expensive, time-consuming and may strain our resources. In
addition, we may be unable to retain employees of acquired companies, or retain
the acquired company s customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners who
are our competitors or who have close relationships with our competitors.  Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated
benefits and could harm our existing business. In addition, future acquisitions
could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the
incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such
as in-process research and development, any of which could harm our business
and affect our financial results.  

WE
UTILIZE DISTRIBUTORS FOR A PORTION OF OUR SALES, THE LOSS OF WHICH COULD HARM
OUR REVENUES IN THE TERRITORY SERVICED BY THESE DISTRIBUTORS    

We have
strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service
of our products, principally in foreign countries. If these strategic
relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to
service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be
adversely affected.  

HEALTHCARE
REFORMS, CHANGES IN HEALTHCARE POLICIES AND CHANGES TO THIRD-PARTY REIMBURSEMENTS
FOR RADIATION ONCOLOGY SERVICES MAY AFFECT DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS    

The
United States government has in the past, and may in the future, consider (and
state and local, as well as a number of foreign governments, are considering or
have adopted) healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs.
These policies have included, and may in the future include, rationing of
government-funded reimbursement for healthcare services and imposing price
controls on medical products and services providers. Future significant changes
in the healthcare systems in the United States or elsewhere could have a
negative impact on the demand for our products and services, and the way we
conduct business.  We are unable to predict
what healthcare reform legislation or regulation, if any, will be enacted in
the United States or elsewhere, whether other healthcare legislation or
regulation affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or
what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business.  

In
addition, sales of some of our products indirectly depend on whether adequate
reimbursement is available to our customers for the treatment provided by those
products from third-party healthcare payors, such as government healthcare
insurance programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, private
insurance plans, health maintenance organizations and preferred provider
organizations. Once Medicare has made a decision to provide reimbursement for a
given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted
by Medicare annually.  Private
third-party payors often adopt Medicare reimbursement policies and payment
amounts.  As a result, decisions by the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, to reimburse for a
treatment, or changes to Medicare s reimbursement policies or reductions in
payment amounts with respect to a treatment would likely extend to third-party
payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment as well.  The availability of such reimbursement for
treatments using our products and the relevant reimbursement rates can affect
our customers  decisions to purchase our radiotherapy products or the products
into which our X-ray tube and flat panel detectors are integrated.  For example, currently Medicare reimbursement
rates for IMRT treatments are substantially higher than the reimbursement rates
for standard radiotherapy treatments, and growth in our business has been
driven in part by growth in sales of IMRT and IMRT-related products.  Any material adverse change in Medicare s
reimbursement policies regarding IMRT treatments or other procedures using our
products, or material reduction in reimbursement rates for such procedures,
could reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our
revenues.  Also, until recently, there
has been considerable confusion about the availability of reimbursement for
IGRT and what reimbursement codes and rates apply for IGRT procedures.  This has caused some hesitancy with some
customers as they evaluated the economic return of investing in IGRT
equipment.  CMS has recently adopted
codes for reimbursement of IGRT procedures which should clarify the
availability of reimbursement and the reimbursement rates for IGRT. In
addition,  

47  

the
executive branch of the federal government and the Congress from time to time
consider various Medicare and other healthcare reform proposals that could
significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare
services. If a proposal that significantly reduced reimbursement rates for our
products or procedures using our products were enacted into law, it could
adversely affect the demand for these products and our business would suffer.  

As a general
matter, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical
procedures or limiting or prohibiting reimbursement for specific services or
devices, and we cannot be sure that they will reimburse our customers at levels
sufficient to enable us to achieve or maintain sales and price levels for our
products. Without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our
products may be limited. There is no uniform policy on reimbursement among
third-party payors, nor can we be sure that procedures using our products will
qualify for reimbursement from third-party payors.  Foreign governments also have their own
healthcare reimbursement systems, and there is an emerging private sector.  We cannot be sure that appropriate
reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any
foreign reimbursement system.  

FLUCTUATIONS
IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS, INCLUDING QUARTERLY NET ORDERS AND REVENUES,  MAY CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO BE VOLATILE,
WHICH COULD CAUSE LOSSES TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS    

We have
experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our
operating results, including net orders and revenues. Many of our products
require significant capital expenditures by our customers. Accordingly,
individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, and the timing
of when individual orders are made and the revenues recognized could have an
effect our quarterly results. Timing of order placement from customers and
their willingness to commit to purchase products are inherently difficult to
predict or forecast.  Once orders are
received, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenues are the
timing include:  

delay in shipment due, for example,
to unanticipated construction delays at customer locations where our products
are to be installed, cancellations by customers, natural disasters, port
strikes or manufacturing difficulties; 

delay in the installation and/or
acceptance of a product; or 

a change in a customer s financial
condition or ability to obtain financing. 

Our quarterly operating results may also be affected
by a number of other factors, including:  

changes in our or our competitors 
pricing or discount levels; 

changes or anticipated changes in
third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using
our products; 

revenues becoming affected by
seasonal influences; 

changes in foreign currency exchange
rates; 

changes in the relative portion of
our revenues represented by our various products; 

timing of the announcement,
introduction and delivery of new products or product enhancements by us and by
our competitors; 

disruptions in the supply or changes
in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation
services; 

changes in the general economic
conditions in the regions in which we do business; 

the possibility that unexpected
levels of cancellations of orders or backlog may affect certain assumptions
upon which we base our forecasts and predictions of future performance; 

the impact of changing levels of
sales to sole purchasers of certain of our X-ray products; 

unfavorable outcome of any
litigation; and 

48  

accounting adjustments such as those
relating to accounting reserves for product recalls, share-based compensation
expense as required under SFAS 123(R) and changes in interpretation of
accounting pronouncements. 

Because
many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a
high percentage of such expenses are fixed for the short term, a small
variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations
in operating results from quarter to quarter. 
If results fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors,
the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline.  

We
report on a quarterly and annual basis our net orders and backlog.  It is important to understand that, unlike
revenues, net orders and backlog are not governed by the rules of GAAP, and are
not within the scope of the audit or reviews conducted by our independent
public accountants; therefore, investors should not interpret our net orders or
backlog results in such a manner.  Also,
our net orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate
predictors of future revenues as the timing of such revenues is dependent upon
completion of customer site preparation and construction, installation
scheduling, customer capital budgeting and financing, appropriate regulatory authorizations
and other factors.  Unexpected levels of
cancellation of individual orders will reduce the quarterly net orders results
and also affect the level of future revenues. 
Accordingly, we cannot be sure if or when orders will mature into
revenues. Our operating results for net orders and backlog in one or more
future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and
investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would almost
certainly decline.  

We
prepare our financial statements to conform with GAAP. These principles are
subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange
Commission and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. A change in
interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a
significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of
transactions completed before a change is announced.  

WE
ARE REQUIRED TO RECOGNIZE EXPENSE FOR SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION RELATED TO STOCK
OPTIONS AND EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASES, AND THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT THE
EXPENSE THAT WE ARE REQUIRED TO RECOGNIZE ACCURATELY MEASURES THE VALUE OF OUR
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT AWARDS, AND THE RECOGNITION OF THIS EXPENSE COULD CAUSE THE
TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE    

On
October 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective
transition method, which requires the measurement and recognition of
compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to our employees
and directors including stock options and employee stock purchases related to
the Employee Stock Purchase Plan and restricted stock based on fair
values.  As a result, our operating
results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 contain, and our operating
results for future periods will contain, a charge for share-based compensation
related to stock options and employee stock purchases.  This charge is in addition to other share-based
compensation expense we have recognized in prior periods.  

The
application of SFAS 123(R) requires the use of an option-pricing model, such as
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, to determine the fair value of
share-based payment awards. 
Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of
traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable.
Our stock options and the option component of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan
shares     have characteristics significantly
different from those of traded options, and changes in the assumptions (such as
expected term, stock price volatility and other variables) can materially
affect the fair value estimates. 
Therefore, although we determine the fair value of stock options and the
option component of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan shares in accordance with
SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107, the existing valuation models may not provide an
accurate measure of such fair value, and there can be no assurance that the
resulting expense that we are required to recognize accurately measures that
value.  

As a
result of the adoption of SFAS 123(R), our earnings for the first quarter of
fiscal 2006 were lower than they would have been had we not been required to
adopt SFAS 123(R). This will continue to be the case for future periods. We
cannot predict the effect that this adverse impact on our reported operating
results will have on the trading price of our common stock.  

THE
NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS EXPOSES US TO ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS, CLEANUP COSTS, OR
EXPENSES, WHICH COULD CAUSE US TO PAY SIGNIFICANT AMOUNTS    

We are
subject to a variety of environmental laws around the world regulating the
handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials and imposing
liability for the cleanup of contamination from these materials that do or may
create increased costs for some of our operations.  Although we follow procedures that we
consider appropriate under existing  

49  

regulations,
these procedures can be costly and we cannot completely eliminate the risk of
contamination or injury from these hazardous materials, and, in the event of
such an incident, we could be held liable for any damages that result.  We do not maintain insurance for clean up
costs or third-party claims resulting from environmental contamination which
could occur in the future.  We do,
however, maintain insurance policies that may provide coverage for cleanup
costs or third-party claims resulting from some historical occurrences of
environmental contamination; although such coverage may be inadequate to cover
such costs or claims.  We could also be
assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and
regulations.  In addition, we may be
required to incur significant additional costs to comply with future changes in
existing environmental laws and regulations or new laws and regulations.  For example, the European Union, or EU, has
adopted directives that when implemented will require medical equipment
manufacturers to bear some or all of the cost of product disposal at the end of
the products  useful life, thus creating increased costs for our
operations.  The EU has also adopted a
directive that may require the adoption of restrictions on the use of some
hazardous substances in certain of our products sold in the EU.  This directive could create increased costs
for our operations.  All of these costs,
and any future violations or liability under environmental laws or regulations,
could have a material adverse effect on our business.  

THE
EFFECT OF TERRORISM OR AN OUTBREAK OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT
SALES AND HINDER OUR OPERATIONS    

Concerns
about terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases such as Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome and Avian Influenza, especially in our major markets of
North America or Europe, could have a negative effect on travel and our
business operations, and result in adverse consequences on our revenues and
financial performance.  

AS
A STRATEGY TO UTILIZE OUR AVAILABLE CASH TO BETTER ASSIST OUR SALES EFFORTS, WE
OFFER EXTENDED PAYMENT TERMS, WHICH MAY POTENTIALLY RESULT IN HIGHER DSO AND
GREATER PAYMENT DEFAULTS    

In light of the relatively low interest rates on
short-term investments and in order to better utilize our strong cash position
in a manner to better assist sales of our products, we offer longer or extended
payment terms for qualified customers in some circumstances.  During the first quarter of fiscal year 2006,
revenues earned from customer contracts with longer or extended payment terms
amounted to approximately 2% of total Oncology Systems revenues.  While we qualify customers to whom we offer
such longer or extended payment terms, there can be no assurance that the
financial positions of such customers will not change adversely over the longer
time period given for payment.  In such
an event, we may experience an increase in payment defaults in our accounts
receivable, which will affect our net earnings. 
Also, such longer or extended payment terms will likely result in an
increase in our DSO.   

OUR
OPERATIONS ARE VULNERABLE TO INTERRUPTION OR LOSS DUE TO NATURAL DISASTERS,
POWER LOSS, STRIKES AND OTHER EVENTS BEYOND OUR CONTROL, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY
AFFECT OUR BUSINESS    

We
conduct a significant portion of our activities including manufacturing,
administration and data processing at facilities located in the State of
California and other seismically active areas that have experienced major
earthquakes in the past, as well as other natural disasters. We carry limited
earthquake insurance for inventory only. 
Such coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at
commercially reasonable rates and terms. A major earthquake or other disaster
affecting our facilities could significantly disrupt our operations, delay or
prevent product manufacture and shipment for the time required to repair,
rebuild or replace our manufacturing facilities, which could be lengthy, and
result in large expenses.   In addition,
our facilities, particularly those located in the western states of the United
States, may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other
energy supplies.  Such shortages may
increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts,
which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our
business.  In addition, our products are
typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any natural disaster,
strike or other event blocking shipment from such ports could delay or prevent
shipments and harm our business.  

OUR
STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN AND PROVISIONS OF OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION MAY
DISCOURAGE A TAKE-OVER AND THEREFORE LIMIT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK    

We have
a stockholder rights plan that, under specific circumstances, would
significantly dilute the equity interest in our company of a person (or
persons) seeking to acquire control of our company without the prior approval
of our Board of Directors. Our Certificate of Incorporation also includes
provisions that may make an acquisition of control of our company  

50  

without
the approval of our Board of Directors more difficult.  Such stockholder rights plan and provisions
in our Certificate of Incorporation may discourage take-over attempts and limit
the price of our common stock.  

Item 2. 
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds   

(a) Not applicable  

(b) Not applicable  

(c) The following table provides information with respect to the shares
of common stock repurchased by us during the first quarter of fiscal year 2006.  

(1)
On November 21, 2005, we announced that  our Board of Directors had
authorized the repurchase of up to
6,000,000 shares of our common stock through December 31, 2006.  We expect repurchases will be made in
accordance with Rule 10b-18 and include a plan designed to satisfy the Rule
10b5-1 safe harbor.  Shares will be
retired upon repurchase.  

(2) As of December 30,
2005, we could repurchase up to 6,604,900 shares of our common stock.  The authorization to repurchase 604,900
shares of our common stock under our Board of Directors  November 19, 2004
authorization expired on December 31, 2005.  

Item 3.  Defaults
Upon Senior Securities   

None.   

Item 4. 
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.  

Item 5.  Other Information   

None.   

51  

Item 6.  Exhibits   

(a)           Exhibits required to be filed by Item 601 of Regulation S K:  

Management
contract or compensatory arrangement. 

52  

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Varian Medical Systems, Inc. has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
authorized.  

VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.   

(Registrant)   

Dated:  February 6, 2006  

By:  

/s/
    ELISHA W. FINNEY    

Elisha
  W. Finney  

Senior
  Vice President, Finance and  

Chief
  Financial Officer  

(Duly Authorized Officer and   

Principal Financial Officer)   

53  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS   

Management
contract or compensatory arrangement. 

54  

<EX-15.1>
 2
 a06-4284_1ex15d1.htm
 LETTER RE UNAUDITED INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Exhibit 15.1   

February 6 , 2006  

Securities and Exchange Commission 
450 Fifth Street 
N.W. Washington, D.C. 20549  

Commissioners:  

We are
aware that our report dated January  25, 2006 on our review of interim
financial information of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. as of December 30, 2005
and for the three-month periods ended December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004
and included in the Company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended December 30, 2005 is incorporated by reference in its
Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-75531) dated
April 1, 1999, its Registration Statement on Form S-8
(No. 333-57006) dated March 14, 2001, its Registration Statement on
Form S-8 (No. 333-57008) dated March 14, 2001, its Registration
Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-57010) dated March 14, 2001, and
its Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-57012) as amended on
June 20, 2001.  

Yours very truly,  

/s/
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

</EX-15.1>

<EX-31.1>
 3
 a06-4284_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
31.1   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

   PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302   

   OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, Richard M. Levy, certify
that:  

1.              I
have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Varian Medical Systems,
Inc. (the  registrant  

2.              Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.              Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.              The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a)            Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)           Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c)            Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d)           Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonable likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.              The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a)            All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b)           Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Dated: February 6, 2006  

/s/   

Richard M. Levy   

Richard
  M. Levy 
    Chairman of the Board 
  and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 4
 a06-4284_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   

   PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302   

   OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, Elisha W. Finney, certify
that:  

1.              I
have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Varian Medical Systems,
Inc. (the  registrant  

2.              Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.              Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.              The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a)            Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)           Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c)            Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d)           Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonable likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.              The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a)            All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b)           Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Dated:   February 6, 2006  

/s/   

Elisha W. Finney   

Elisha W. Finney 
    Senior  Vice President,
  Finance and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 5
 a06-4284_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1   

CERTIFICATION   

   PURSUANT
TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

   SECTION
906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Quarterly Report
of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (the  Company ), on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended December 30, 2005 (the  Report ), I, Richard M. Levy, Chief Executive
Officer of the Company, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted
pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that:  

(1)                                      the Report fully complies with the
requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and  

(2)                                      the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results
of operations of the Company.  

Dated: February 6, 2006  

/s/   

Richard M. Levy   

Richard M. Levy 
    Chairman of the Board 
  and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 6
 a06-4284_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.2   

CERTIFICATION   

   PURSUANT
TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

   SECTION
906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the accompanying Quarterly Report
of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (the  Company ), on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended December 30, 2005 (the  Report ), I, Elisha W. Finney, Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted
pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that:  

(1)                                      the Report fully complies with the
requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and  

(2)                                      the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results
of operations of the Company.  

Dated: February 6, 2006  

/s/   

Elisha W. Finney   

Elisha W. Finney  

Senior     Vice President,
  Finance and 
  Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-32.2>

