<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060315_10-Q_edgar_data_225628_0000909012-06-000327_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>99231</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>87532</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>464</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>3</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000909012-06-000327.hdr.sgml : 20060315
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060315154345
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000909012-06-000327
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060315
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060315

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MEGADATA CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000225628
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT [3576]
		IRS NUMBER:				112208938
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-07642
		FILM NUMBER:		06688197

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		47 ARCH STREET
		CITY:			GREENWICH
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			11716
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5165896800

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		47 ARCH STREET
		CITY:			GREENWICH
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			11716

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MEGADATA COMPUTER & COMMUNICATIONS CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19770201

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BELLOK DEVICES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19740314

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JyfbGX/SBGcyS+izEFFzA0dEICfzElvSGxeLIxBT7gc8sYjHPEW1uJM4pKArsNl9
 zrANgRva3LZwl194JCE9+Q==

 0000909012-06-000327.txt : 20060315

10-Q
 1
 t302448.txt
 QUARTERLY REPORT
 
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-Q

      [X]       QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                 For the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006
                                ----------------

                                       OR
      [ ]       TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

         For the transition period from ____________ to ____________

                         Commission file number 000-7642
                                                --------

                              MEGADATA CORPORATION
                              --------------------
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

              New York                                           11-2208938
- ---------------------------------                            -------------------
   (State or Other Jurisdiction                               (I.R.S. Employer
of Incorporation or Organization)                            Identification No.)

47 Arch Street, Greenwich, Connecticut                             06830
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Address of Principal Executive Office)                          (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (203) 622-4086
                                                    --------------

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                                                Yes [X]     No [_]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer or a non- accelerated filer, See definition of "accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
one):

Large accelerated filer [ ]   Accelerated filer [ ]    Non-accelerated filer [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

                            Yes [ ]           No [X]
================================================================================

There were 4,091,448 shares of common stock with a par value of $0.01 per share
                        outstanding as of March 10, 2006.

INDEX

                      Megadata Corporation and Subsidiaries

                                                                            Page

PART I.  Financial Information                                                3

Item 1.  Financial Statements.

         Consolidated Balance Sheets - January 31, 2006
         (unaudited) and October 31, 2005 (audited).                          3

         Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
         Three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005.                        4

         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)
         three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005.                        5

         Notes to Consolidated Financial
         Statements (unaudited) - January 31, 2006.                           6

Item 2.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
         Condition and Results of Operations.                                13

Item 3.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.         29

Item 4.  Controls and Procedures.                                            29

PART II. Other Information                                                   30

Item 6.  Exhibits                                                            30

Signatures                                                                   31

Page 2

PART I: FINANCIAL INFORMATION
ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                      Megadata Corporation and Subsidiaries

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets

SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.

Page 3

Megadata Corporation and Subsidiaries

                      Consolidated Statements of Operations

                                   (Unaudited)

                                                  THREE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 31,
                                                       2006           2005
                                                  -----------------------------
Revenues:
   Subscriptions                                   $   906,584    $   714,531
   Maintenance                                         111,180        101,115
   Other                                                    --         16,500
                                                  -----------------------------
Total revenues                                       1,017,764        832,146
                                                  -----------------------------
Cost and expenses:
   Cost of sales                                       426,745        481,737
   Research and development                             99,266        101,357
   Selling, general and administrative expenses        501,789        445,879
                                                  -----------------------------
                                                     1,027,800      1,028,973
                                                  -----------------------------
Loss from operations                                   (10,036)      (196,827)

Other income (expense):
   Interest income                                       1,360            405
   Interest expense--related party                    (114,884)      (102,809)
                                                  -----------------------------
Loss before income taxes                              (123,560)      (299,231)
Provision for income taxes                               3,453          5,159
                                                  -----------------------------
Net loss                                           $  (127,013)   $  (304,390)
                                                  =============================
Net loss per common share--basic
   and diluted                                     $      (.03)   $      (.07)
                                                  =============================
Weighted average number of common shares
   outstanding--basic and diluted                    4,088,115      4,088,115
                                                  =============================

SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.

Page 4

Megadata Corporation and Subsidiaries

                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

                                   (Unaudited)

SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES.

Page 5

Megadata Corporation and Subsidiaries

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                January 31, 2006

                                   (Unaudited)

1. NATURE OF BUSINESS

Megadata Corporation (the "Company" or "we") is a provider of flight
information, application software, and web-delivered collaborative decision
tools to the aviation industry and organizations that serve, or are served by,
the aviation industry.

The Company has what it believes is a unique database of flight information,
powered by a network of company-owned passive radars and several other data
sources, that when combined with the Company's suite of data products, web-based
software, and web-based collaborative decision tools, provide airlines and
airports services that we believe are otherwise unavailable in most cases. The
Company now provides services to over 40 airports and over 30 airlines and
continues to expand services to each in this traditional market. In addition,
the Company has created and implemented collaborative web-based software that
allows the Company's customers to instantly share information to improve
individual and joint decision making, creating additional value for its
customers.

2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The consolidated financial information contained in this Form 10-Q represents
condensed financial data and, therefore, does not include all footnote
disclosures required to be included in financial statements prepared in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Such footnote information was included in the Company's annual report on Form
10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission ("SEC"); the consolidated financial data included herein should be
read in conjunction with that report. In the opinion of the Company, the
accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments
(which include only normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly
the Company's consolidated financial position at January 31, 2006 and its
consolidated results of operations and cash flows for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 and 2005.

Management is addressing the working capital and stockholders' deficiencies and
operating losses by aggressively marketing the Company's PASSUR(R) information
capabilities in its existing product lines, as well as in new products, which
are currently being developed and in some cases have been deployed. The Company
is continuing to increase the size of the Company-owned PASSUR(R) network, which
management believes will lead to continued growth in subscription-based
revenues. In addition, the Company may need to raise additional funds in order
to support discretionary capital expenditures and execute its business plan.
These funds in some cases may be beyond the scope of normal operating
requirements, for which the Company has a commitment through March 8, 2007 from
its significant shareholder and Chairman, and, therefore, may not be approved
and/or funded. In such case, the Company may be required to seek alternate
sources of financing (which may not be available on favorable terms or at all)
or abandon such activities by either: terminating or eliminating certain
operating activities; terminating personnel; eliminating marketing activities;
and/or eliminating research and development programs. If any of the
aforementioned occurs, the Company's ability to expand and its growth could be
adversely affected.

Page 6

The results of operations for the interim period stated above are not
necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be recorded for the full
fiscal year ending October 31, 2006.

REVENUE RECOGNITION POLICY

The Company follows the provisions of the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants Statement of Position 97-2, or SOP 97-2, "SOFTWARE REVENUE
RECOGNITION," as amended. SOP 97-2 delineates the accounting practices for
software products, maintenance and support services and consulting revenue.
Under SOP 97-2, the Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is determinable and
collection of the resulting receivable is probable. For arrangements involving
multiple elements (e.g., maintenance, support and other services), the Company
allocates revenue to each element of the arrangement based on vendor-specific
objective evidence of its fair value, or for products not being sold separately,
the objective and verifiable fair value established by management.

The Company recognizes revenue on the sale of products and systems when the
products or systems have been shipped and in accordance with Staff Accounting
Bulletin 104 and SOP 97-2. Installation charges, if any, are not material and
are recognized when installation services are completed.

The Company recognizes service and maintenance revenues on a straight-line basis
over the service contract period. Revenues for data subscription services are
recognized on a monthly basis upon the execution of an agreement and the
customer's receipt of the data.

The Company recognizes license fee revenues on a straight-line basis over either
the term of the license agreement or the expected useful life of such license
arrangement, whichever is longer, which typically does not exceed five years.

Page 7

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

The Company uses installment license and/or maintenance agreements as part of
its standard business practice. The Company has a history of successfully
collecting primarily all amounts due under the original payment terms, without
making concessions on payments, software products, maintenance or other
services. Net accounts receivable is composed of either the monthly, quarterly
or annual committed amounts due from customers pursuant to the terms of each
respective customer's agreement. These accounts receivable balances include
unearned revenue attributable to deferred subscription revenues, deferred
maintenance revenues and unamortized license fee revenues. Deferred revenue
amounts represent fees billed prior to actual performance of services, which
will be recognized as revenue over either the respective license agreement term
or the estimated useful life of such revenue, whichever is longer.

For the period ended January 31, 2006, the provision for doubtful accounts was
$3,000 compared to $6,000 recorded as of the fiscal year ended October 31, 2005.
The Company monitors its outstanding accounts receivable balance and believes
the $3,000 provision is reasonable.

COST OF SALES

The Company has not segregated its cost of sales between cost of system sales
and cost of subscription and maintenance revenues, as it is not practicable to
segregate such costs. Costs associated with system sales consist primarily of
purchased materials, direct labor and overhead costs.

Costs associated with subscription and maintenance revenues consist primarily of
direct labor, communication costs, depreciation of PASSUR(R) network assets,
amortization of software development costs and overhead cost allocations. Also
included in costs of sales are costs associated with the upgrades of PASSUR(R)
systems necessary to make such systems compatible with new software applications
as well as the ordinary repair and maintenance of existing PASSUR(R) network
systems. Additionally, cost of sales in each reporting period is impacted by:
(1) the number of PASSUR(R) network units added, which include the production,
shipment and installation of these assets which are capitalized to the PASSUR(R)
Network; and (2) capitalized costs associated with software development programs
which are expensed in cost of sales.

INVENTORIES

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market with cost being determined
using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Costs included in inventories
consist of materials, labor and manufacturing overhead that are related to the
purchase and production of inventories. The Company values its inventory during
the interim period based on perpetual inventory records.

Page 8

PASSUR(R) NETWORK

The PASSUR(R) Network installations, which include the direct and indirect
production and installation costs incurred for each of the Company-owned
PASSUR(R) systems (the "PASSUR(R) Network"), are recorded at cost, net of
accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is charged to cost of sales and is
calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the
asset, which is estimated at seven years for PASSUR(R) systems and five years
for related workstations. Units are not depreciated until the time they are
placed into service.

CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE COSTS

The Company follows the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 86, "ACCOUNTING FOR THE COSTS OF SOFTWARE TO BE SOLD,
LEASED, OR OTHERWISE MARKETED." Costs incurred to develop computer software
products as well as significant enhancements to software features of the
existing products to be sold or otherwise marketed are capitalized, after
technological feasibility is established and ending when the product is
available for release to customers. Once the software products become available
for general release to the public, the Company begins to amortize such costs to
cost of sales.

Amortization of capitalized software costs is provided on a product-by-product
basis based on the greater of the ratio of current gross revenues to the total
of current and anticipated future gross revenues or the straight-line method
over the estimated economic life of the product beginning at the point the
product becomes available for general release, typically over five years. Costs
incurred to improve and support products after they become available for general
release are charged to expense as incurred. The assessment of recoverability of
capitalized software development costs requires the exercise of judgment by
management. In the opinion of management, all such costs capitalized as of
January 31, 2006 are recoverable through anticipated future sales of such
applicable products.

DEFERRED INCOME

Deferred income includes advances received on maintenance agreements and/or
subscription services which are derived from the Company's PASSUR(R) Network and
which may be prepaid either annually or quarterly, as well as advance one-time
payments received for license fees relating to Company software applications.
Revenues from maintenance and subscription services are recognized as income
ratably over the maintenance and/or subscription period that coincides with the
respective agreement.

Revenues from license fees are recognized as income on a straight-line basis
over either the term of the license agreement or expected useful life of such
license arrangement, whichever is longer, which typically does not exceed five
years.

Page 9

LONG-LIVED ASSETS

The Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate
the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Impairment is recognized
to the extent the sum of undiscounted estimated future cash flows expected to
result from the use of the asset is less than the carrying value. Assets to be
disposed of are carried at the lower of their carrying value or fair value, less
costs to sell. The Company evaluates the periods of amortization continually in
determining whether later events and circumstances warrant revised estimates of
useful lives. If estimates are changed, the unamortized costs will be allocated
to the increased or decreased number of remaining periods in the revised life.

NET LOSS PER COMMON SHARE

The Company reports basic and diluted net loss per common share in accordance
with SFAS No. 128, "EARNINGS PER SHARE." Net loss per common share was computed
using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the
period. Conversion of the common equivalent shares relating to outstanding stock
options and warrants is not assumed, since the results would have been
antidilutive.

COMPREHENSIVE LOSS

Comprehensive loss for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 is
equivalent to that of the Company's total net loss for those respective periods.

STOCK BASED COMPENSATION PLANS

Prior to November 1, 2005, the Company accounted for employee stock option plans
based on the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles
Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, " Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and
related Interpretations and had adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No.
123, " Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS No.123). Accordingly,
compensation cost for stock options was measured as the excess, if any, of the
quoted market price of the Company's stock at the grant date over the amount an
employee must pay to acquire the stock. The Company granted stock options with
exercise prices equal to the market price of the underlying stock on the date of
grant, therefore, the Company did not record stock-based compensation expense
under APB Opinion No. 25.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS
No. 123R, "Share-Based Payments" to require that compensation cost relating to
share-based payment arrangements be recognized in the financial statements.

Page 10

Effective November 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified
prospective method, which requires measurement of compensation cost for all
stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognition of
compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. Therefore,
prior period financial statements have not been restated. The fair value of
stock options were determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which is
consistent with our valuation techniques previously utilized for stock options
in footnote disclosures required under SFAS No. 123. Such fair value is
recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures. The
adoption of SFAS No.123R resulted in no cumulative change in accounting as of
the date of adoption.

The weighted average fair value of options outstanding during the three months
ended January 31, 2006 was $.21. These options vest over a period of three
years. The fair value for these options was estimated at the date of grant using
a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions for the three months ended January 31, 2006: risk-free interest
rates of 4.32%, volatility factor of the expected market price of the Company's
Common Stock of 1.113, assumed dividend yield of 0%, and a weighted-average
expected life of the option of 8 years.

For the three months ended January 31, 2006, stock compensation expense of
approximately $8,000 was charged to operations, consisting of $1,000 for options
granted during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and $7,000 for non vested
options granted prior to October 31, 2005. As of January 31, 2006, there was
$37,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures,
related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements, which is expected to
be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.5 years.

The following table illustrates the effect on net income and net income per
share for the three months ended January 31, 2005 as if the Company had
consistently measured the compensation cost for the Company's stock option
programs under the fair value method adopted on November 1, 2005:

                                                    JANUARY 31, 2005
                                                    ----------------

      Reported net loss                               ($ 304,000)
      Pro-forma stock compensation expense
                                                      ($   7,400)
      Pro-forma net loss                              ($ 311,400)
                                                    ================
      Reported basic and diluted net loss
         per common share
                                                      $     (.07)
                                                    ================
      Pro-forma basic and diluted net loss
         per common share                             $     (.08)
                                                    ================

Page 11

RECLASSIFICATIONS

Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial statements
to conform to the current period presentation.

3. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

On January 27, 2006, the Company and its significant shareholder, G.S.Beckwith
Gilbert, entered into a debt extension agreement pursuant to which the Company
and Mr. Gilbert agreed to modify certain terms and conditions of an outstanding
promissory note previously issued by the Company to Mr. Gilbert. Pursuant to the
agreement, effective November 1, 2005, total principal and accrued interest,
owed to Mr. Gilbert as of October 31, 2005, was aggregated into a new note with
a principal amount of $9,989,880, with a maturity date of November 1, 2006
bearing an interest rate of 4.5%.

On January 19, 2005, the Company and Field Point Capital Management Company
(FPCM), a company 100% owned by Mr. Gilbert, entered into an agreement to share
the services of an employee of the Company. Mr. Gilbert agreed to reimburse the
Company for approximately 80% of the salary and taxes associated with the
employee. The net costs incurred by the Company for the period ended January 31,
2006 was approximately $6,000. As of January 31, 2006, this employee was no
longer employed by either the Company or FPCM.

The Company paid approximately $13,000 to Surf-Tech Manufacturing, Inc. (a
non-public corporation) for materials and labor in connection with the
production of various replacement and upgrades to equipment used in PASSUR(R)
systems during the three months ended January 31, 2006. A Company Executive Vice
President and Director is a 50% shareholder of the aforementioned company, and
the Company believes that these rates are competitive and are at or below market
rates.

Page 12

ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

The Company is a provider of flight information, web-delivered software and
web-delivered collaborative decision tools to the aviation industry and
organizations which serve, or are served by, the aviation industry.

Revenues consist primarily of subscription-based revenues, maintenance revenues
from customer owned PASSUR(R) systems, kiosks, system sales and system upgrades
revenues and other revenues from services and/or products provided which are not
part of the subscription or maintenance business line.

Over the past several years, the Company has been developing and selling
information and software from its unique flight database, powered by the
PASSUR(R) passive radar network, to airlines and airports, while simultaneously
investing in growing the radar network and integrating additional information
sets into the database. Because of its investments in this database and
web-dashboard technologies, and the "vetting" of both by its airline and airport
customers, the Company is now taking new versions of the information and
software product to other segments of the aviation market: corporate aviation
and its ancillary industries and online travel services. The Company has created
and continues to create collaborative web-based software that allows all of its
customers, both industrial and non-industrial, to instantly share information to
improve individual and joint decision making, creating additional value for both
its traditional and new customers.

The Company sells subscription-based information and software products as well
as the PASSUR(R) radar system (included in a sale is an annual maintenance
contract and an additional charge for installation), PASSUR(R) Kiosks or LCDs,
and consulting services. Under the subscription model, the customer signs a
minimum one-year contract for access to the information services. The agreement
also provides that the information from the PASSUR(R) Information Network cannot
be resold or used for unauthorized purposes.

When systems are sold, the Company retains both proprietary and distribution
rights to the data generated from such systems and can distribute such data at
the Company's sole discretion, with few exceptions. The sale of consulting
services is only made in conjunction with the sale of its collaborative decision
tools.

The Company has incorporated strict levels of security in both the information
generated by the PASSUR(R) Network and the availability of that information to
the end users.

Page 13

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

REVENUES

The Company is a provider of information and decision support software supplied
primarily from its PASSUR(R) Network. Revenues consist primarily of
subscription-based revenues, maintenance revenues from customer-owned PASSUR(R)
systems, revenues from system sales and system upgrades and revenues from other
services and/or products provided, which are not part of the subscription or
maintenance business line. Revenues during the three months ended January 31,
2006 increased by approximately $186,000, or 22%, as compared to the same period
of fiscal 2005. This increase was primarily due to the continued development and
deployment of new software applications, increased effectiveness of the
Company's marketing efforts, industry acceptance of the Company's applications,
the wide selection of products which address customers' needs and the ease of
delivery through its web-based applications. These efforts resulted in both an
increased number of new customers subscribing to the Company's suite of software
applications and increased subscriptions from existing customers.

Management continues to concentrate its efforts on the sale of information and
decision support product applications utilizing data primarily derived from the
Company-owned PASSUR(R) Network. Such efforts include the continued development
of new product applications, as well as enhancements and maintenance of existing
applications. As a result, during the three months ended January 31, 2006,
subscription-based revenues increased approximately $192,000, or 27%, when
compared to the same period in fiscal 2005. Maintenance revenues increased
approximately $10,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2006 when compared
to the same period in fiscal 2005. The increase in subscription based revenues
and maintenance revenues more than offset the decrease in other revenues of
approximately $17,000.

The Company's business plan is to continue to focus on increasing
subscription-based revenues from the suite of software applications and
developing new applications designed to address the needs of the aviation
industry. However, the Company, from time to time, will sell a PASSUR(R) system
at a customer's specific request.

The Company shipped two and installed one Company-owned PASSUR(R) systems during
the three months ended January 31, 2006. Such installations have been
capitalized as part of the "PASSUR(R) Network." The Company intends to expand
the PASSUR(R) Network by manufacturing, shipping and installing additional
PASSUR(R) systems throughout fiscal 2006. Management anticipates that these
future PASSUR(R) sites will provide increased coverage for the PASSUR(R) Network
and increase the Company's potential for new customers at such locations as well
as provide existing customers with additional data solutions. The Company will
continue to market the data generated from the PASSUR(R) Network directly to
airlines, airports and aviation-related companies and anticipates that the data
derived from the network will ultimately be sold to multiple users at each
specific network site. As of January 31, 2006 there were 44 Company-owned
PASSUR(R) systems located at various airports throughout the continental United
States.

Management has decided to discontinue marketing various non-PASSUR(R) product
offerings; however, these products continue to contribute slightly to the
revenue base from the sale of existing inventory, along with minor service and
repair revenues. The Company did not record any non-PASSUR(R) revenues for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Page 14

COST OF SALES

Costs associated with system sales consist primarily of purchased materials,
direct labor and overhead costs. Costs associated with subscription and
maintenance revenues consist primarily of direct labor, depreciation of
PASSUR(R) Network assets, amortization of software development costs,
communication costs and allocated overhead costs. Also included in cost of sales
are costs associated with the upgrades of PASSUR(R) systems necessary to make
such systems compatible with new software applications, as well as the ordinary
repair and maintenance of existing network systems. Additionally, cost of sales
in each reporting period are impacted by: (1) the number of PASSUR(R) Network
units added to the asset account, which includes the production, shipment and
installation of these assets; and (2) capitalized costs associated with software
development programs, collectively referred to as "Capitalized Assets." which
are depreciated and/or amortized over the respective useful lives and charged to
cost of sales.

The Company has not segregated its cost of sales between cost of system sales
and cost of subscription and maintenance services, as it is not practical to
segregate such costs. During the three months ended January 31, 2006, cost of
sales decreased by approximately $55,000, or 11%, as compared to the same period
in fiscal 2005. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in outside
consulting and an increase in the capitalization of manufacturing costs as well
as PASSUR(R) Network costs. The decrease in costs is partially offset by an
increase in salary and benefits, depreciation, and recruitment costs.

Cost of sales includes labor, communication costs and allocated overhead costs.
The Company does not deem it practical to bifurcate cost of sales between
subscription based revenues and maintenance revenues. Also included in cost of
sales is depreciation and amortization of the PASSUR(R) Network assets and
software development costs; for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and
2005, these costs were approximately $198,000 and $175,000, respectively, and
were reduced by the capitalization of manufacturing costs, PASSUR(R) Network
assets and software development costs of approximately $74,000, $76,000 and
$95,000, respectively.

Page 15

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

For the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, research and development
expenses remained relatively constant. The Company's research and development
efforts include activities associated with the enhancement, maintenance and
improvement of the Company's existing hardware, software and information
products.

The Company anticipates that it will continue to invest in research and
development to develop, maintain and support the existing and newly developed
applications for its PASSUR(R) customers. There were no customer-sponsored
research and development activities during the three months ended January 31,
2006 and 2005. Research and development expenses are funded through current
operations.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE

For the three months ended January 31, 2006, selling, general and administrative
expenses increased by approximately $56,000, or 13%, as compared to the same
period in fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily due to increased sales and
marketing personnel and increased marketing for the three months ended January
31, 2006, as compared to the same period in fiscal 2005.

The Company anticipates continued increases in its sales and marketing efforts
in order to market new and existing products from the PASSUR(R) suite of
software applications. The Company anticipates that its sales and marketing
expenses may increase during fiscal 2006 resulting from these efforts, while
efforts to maintain and expand cost reduction initiatives are identified and
implemented.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

Other interest income and interest expense did not change significantly for the
three months ended January 31, 2006, as compared to the same period of fiscal
2005.

For the three months ended January 31, 2006, interest expense-related party
increased by approximately $12,000, or 12%, as compared to the same period of
fiscal 2005. The increase is due to approximately $1,050,000 in higher debt as
compared to the same period in fiscal 2005. Total debt at January 31, 2006 was
$9,989,880 at an effective interest rate of 4.5 %.

NET LOSS

The Company incurred a net loss of $127,000, or $.03 per diluted common share,
during the three months ended January 31, 2006. During the corresponding period
of fiscal 2005, the Company incurred a net loss of $304,000, or $.07 per diluted
common share. Despite the increase in total revenues of approximately 22% for
the three months ended January 31, 2006, the costs associated with the
placement, operation, development, maintenance and marketing of the
Company-owned PASSUR(R) Network contributed to the loss.

Page 16

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At January 31, 2006, the Company's current liabilities exceeded current assets
by $10,858,000. On that date, included in current liabilities, were notes
payable related party of $9,989,880. At January 31, 2006, the Company's
stockholders' deficit was $10,139,000. For the three months ended January 31,
2006, the Company incurred a net loss of $127,000.

Management is addressing the working capital and stockholders' deficiencies and
operating losses by aggressively marketing the Company's PASSUR(R) information
capabilities in its existing product lines, as well as in new products, which
are continually being developed and deployed. The Company intends to increase
the size and related airspace coverage of its owned "PASSUR(R) Network" by
continuing to install PASSUR(R) systems throughout the United States and certain
foreign countries. In addition, management believes that expanding its existing
software suite of products, which addresses the wide array of needs of the
aviation industry, through the continued development of new product offerings,
will continue to lead to increased growth in the Company's customer base and
subscription-based revenues. Additionally, if the Company's business plan does
not generate sufficient cash-flows from operations to meet the Company's
operating cash requirements, the Company will attempt to obtain external
financing, and if such external financing is not consummated, the Company has a
commitment to receive additional financial support from its significant
shareholder and Chairman through March 8, 2007. Such commitment for financial
support may be in the form of additional advances or loans to the Company in
addition to the deferral of principal and interest payments due on existing
loans, if deemed necessary.

For the three months ended January 31, 2006, net cash provided by operating
activities was approximately $223,000. Cash flows used in investing activities
was approximately $180,000 and consisted primarily of capitalized software
development and PASSUR(R) Network costs. Cash used by financing activities was
approximately $1,000. No principal payments on notes payable - related party
were made during the three months ended January 31, 2006.

The Company recorded a net loss of approximately $127,000 for the three months
ended January 31, 2006. To date, the Company has experienced increased revenues
as a result of its subscription-based revenue model, but higher costs associated
with the placement, operation, development, maintenance and marketing of the
Company owned PASSUR(R) Network partially offset such increased revenues. The
Company is actively addressing the increasing costs associated with supporting
its business, and plans to identify and reduce any unnecessary costs as part of
its cost-reduction initiatives. Additionally, the aviation market has been
impacted by budgetary constraints and airline bankruptcies due to the terrorist
events of September 11, 2001, the continued war on terrorism and the uncertainty
in the current economic climate. The aviation market is extensively regulated by
government agencies, particularly the Federal Aviation Administration and The
National Transportation Safety Board, and management anticipates that new
regulations relating to air travel may continue to be issued. Substantially all
of the Company's revenues are derived from either airports or airlines. It is
premature to evaluate the impact, if any, that any new regulations or changes in
the economic situation of the aviation industry could have on the future
operations of the Company, either positively or negatively.

Page 17

Interest by potential customers in the information and decision support software
products obtained from the PASSUR(R) Network remains strong and the Company
anticipates an increase in future revenues. However, the Company cannot predict
if such revenues will materialize. If sales do not increase, additional losses
may occur. The extent of such profits or losses will be dependent on sales
volume achieved and Company cost reduction initiatives.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

As of January 31, 2006, the Company had contractual obligations as follows:

o     Obligations under "Operating Leases" relate to the manufacturing and
      research facility located in Bohemia, New York ($88,550 - fiscal 2006,
      $91,206 - fiscal 2007, $93,942 - fiscal 2008). Beginning August 1, 2005
      rent for the Company's headquarters located in Greenwich, CT increased to
      $3,750 per month ($45,000 per year to June 30, 2009). All other operating
      leases are under a month-to-month arrangement, therefore, such obligations
      have been excluded from the above calculation (total monthly obligations
      total $500 per month).

o     Obligations under "Other Long-Term Obligations" relate to the minimum
      royalty payments due to a third party for exclusive licensing rights of
      certain patents relating to the PASSUR(R) System. The annual minimum
      royalty payments total $75,000 and are effective until the last licensed
      patent expires in 2013. The Company's annual royalty payment may exceed
      the minimum royalty amount of $75,000 based upon certain sales thresholds
      exceeded in any given year; however, the minimum annual royalty obligation
      will never be less than $75,000.

Page 18

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

GENERAL

The Company's discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of
operations is based upon its consolidated financial statements, which have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires the
Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of
contingent assets and liabilities based upon accounting policies management has
implemented. The Company has identified the policies and estimates below as
critical to its business operations and the understanding of its results of
operations. The impact and any associated risks related to these policies on the
Company's business operations are discussed throughout "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" where such
policies affect its reported financial results. Actual results may differ from
these judgments under different assumptions or conditions. The Company's
accounting policies that require management to apply significant judgment and
estimates include:

REVENUE RECOGNITION

The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 104, "REVENUE RECOGNITION IN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS" ("SAB 104"). SAB 104
requires that four basic criteria must be met before revenues can be recognized:
(1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or
services have been rendered; (3) the fee is fixed and determinable; and (4)
collectability is reasonably assured. The Company also recognizes revenue in
accordance with Statement of Position 97-2, "SOFTWARE REVENUE RECOGNITION" ("SOP
97-2"), as amended, when applicable.

The Company's revenues are generated from the following: (1) subscription and
maintenance agreements; (2) PASSUR(R) system sales, including system upgrade
sales; and (3) one-time license fees. The Company recognizes revenues from
system sales when the system is shipped in accordance with SAB 104 and SOP 97-2.

Revenues generated from subscription and maintenance agreements are recognized
over the term of such executed agreements and/or the customer's receipt of such
data or services. In accordance with SOP 97-2, the Company recognizes revenue
from the licensing of its software products or performance of maintenance when
all of the following criteria are met: (1) the Company has entered into a
legally binding agreement with a customer; (2) the Company has delivered the
products or services; (3) license/maintenance agreement terms are deemed fixed
or determinable and free of contingencies or uncertainties that may alter the
agreement such that it may not be complete and final; and (4) collection is
probable. The Company records revenues pursuant to individual contracts on a
month-by-month basis, as outlined by the applicable agreement(s). In many cases,
the Company may invoice respective customers in advance of specified period(s),
either quarterly or annually, which coincides with the terms of the agreement.
In such cases, the Company will defer at the close of each month and/or
reporting period any subscription or maintenance revenues invoiced for which
services have yet to be rendered, in accordance with SOP 97-2.

Page 19

The Company's software licenses generally do not include acceptance provisions.
An acceptance provision generally allows a customer to test the software for a
defined period of time before it commits to a binding agreement to license the
software. If a subscription agreement includes an acceptance provision, the
Company will not recognize revenue until the earlier of the receipt of a written
customer acceptance or, if not notified by the customer to cancel the
subscription agreement, the expiration of the acceptance period.

From time to time, the Company will receive one-time payments from customers for
rights, including but not limited to the rights to use certain data at an agreed
upon location(s) for a specific use and/or for an unlimited number of users.
Such one-time payments are in the form of license fees. These fees are
recognized as revenue ratably over the longer of the term of the license
agreement or the expected useful life of such license arrangement, whichever is
longer (typically five years).

Any deferred revenue is classified on the Company's balance sheet as a liability
in the deferred income account until such time as revenue from services is
properly recognized as revenue in accordance with SAB 104 and/or SOP 97-2 and
the corresponding agreement.

CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE COSTS

The Company follows the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 86, "ACCOUNTING FOR THE COSTS OF SOFTWARE TO BE SOLD, LEASED, OR
OTHERWISE MARKETED" ("SFAS 86"). Costs incurred to develop computer hardware and
software products as well as significant enhancements to software features of
the existing products to be sold or otherwise marketed are capitalized after
technological feasibility is established. Once the software products become
available for general release to the public, the Company will begin to amortize
such costs to cost of sales.

The Company's policy on capitalized software costs determines whether the costs
incurred are classified as capitalized costs (in accordance with SFAS 86) or as
research and development expenses. In cases where the Company capitalizes costs
incurred with development of new hardware/software products, a product
specification is designed and/or a working model of the respective project is
developed as the guideline for the criteria to capitalize costs associated with
such project in accordance with SFAS 86.

Once a product has been made available for sale and/or released for sale to the
general public, the development costs of that product are no longer capitalized
and amortization commences over a five-year period and any additional costs
incurred to maintain or support such product are expensed as incurred. In some
cases, the Company may capitalize costs incurred in the development of enhanced
versions of already existing products, but will immediately expense any costs
incurred on products which were completed and released to the general public in
the form of continued maintenance of such products, in accordance with SFAS 86.
Management uses its judgment in determining and evaluating whether development
costs meet the criteria for immediate expense or capitalization.

Page 20

The Company's net capitalized software costs at January 31, 2006 totaled
$991,000. The carrying value of the capitalized software costs is dependent on
the forecasted and actual performance of future cash flows generated from such
assets as determined and evaluated by management.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

The Company follows the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 144, "ACCOUNTING FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OR DISPOSAL OF LONG-LIVED
ASSETS" ("SFAS 144"). The Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment when
circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable or
at each reporting period. Impairment is recognized when the sum of the
undiscounted estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use of the
asset is less than the carrying value. The Company evaluates the periods of
amortization continually in determining whether any events or circumstances
warrant revised estimates of useful lives.

The Company's long-lived assets include property plant and equipment, PASSUR(R)
Network and software development costs which at January 31, 2006, approximated
$125,000, $2,205,000 and $991,000, respectively. Long lived assets accounted for
71% of the Company's total assets. The carrying value of the long-lived assets
is dependent on the forecasted and actual cash flows of such assets as
determined by management.

At each reporting period, management evaluates the carrying values of the
Company's assets. The evaluation represents the undiscounted cash flows
generated from current contractual revenue sources and the anticipated forecast
revenue derived from each asset. It then evaluates these revenues on an overall
basis to determine if any impairment issues exist. As of January 31, 2006, based
upon management's evaluation of the above asset groups, no impairments exist of
these asset groups. If these forecasts are not met, the Company may have to
record impairment charges not previously recorded.

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION

The total net property, plant and equipment approximated $125,000, the total net
PASSUR(R) Network approximated $2,205,000 and the total net software development
costs approximated $991,000. The total depreciation and amortization expense
related to capitalized assets for the three months ended January 31, 2006
approximated $159,000 and $51,000. Management judgment is required in order to
determine the estimated depreciable lives that are used to calculate the annual
depreciation and amortization expense.

Page 21

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line basis over the
estimated useful lives of the respective assets, as follows:

Property, plant and equipment                        3 to 10 years
PASSUR(R) Network                                    5 to 7 years
Software development costs                           5 years

The PASSUR(R) Network reflected on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets
includes PASSUR(R) systems and the related software workstations used for the
data derived from the PASSUR(R) systems. The PASSUR(R) Network is comprised of
PASSUR(R) systems installed and supplying data to the Company network, related
workstations with software and/or PASSUR(R) systems built but not yet installed
in the Company network. PASSUR(R) Network assets which are not installed in the
network are carried at cost and no depreciation is recorded. Once installed, the
PASSUR(R) systems are depreciated over seven years and the related workstations
are depreciated over five years.

All of the Company's capitalized assets are recorded at cost (which may also
include salaries and related overhead costs incurred during the period of
development) and depreciated and/or amortized over the asset's estimated useful
life for financial statement purposes. The estimated useful life represents the
projected period of time that the asset will be productively employed by the
Company and is determined by management based on many factors, including
historical experience with similar assets, technological life cycles and
industry standards for similar assets. Circumstances and events relating to
these assets are monitored to ensure that changes in asset lives or impairments
(see "Impairment of Long-Lived Assets" above) are identified and prospective
depreciation expense or impairment expense is adjusted accordingly.

The total depreciation and/or amortization for the three months ended January
31, 2006 approximated $210,000, the plant property and equipment component
approximated $13,000, the PASSUR(R) Network component approximated $146,000 and
software development costs approximated $51,000.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

Prior to November 1, 2005, the Company accounted for employee stock option plans
based on the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles
Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, " Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and
related Interpretations and had adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No.
123, " Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS No.123). Accordingly,
compensation cost for stock options was measured as the excess, if any, of the
quoted market price of the Company's stock at the grant date over the amount an
employee must pay to acquire the stock. The Company granted stock options with
exercise prices equal to the market price of the underlying stock on the date of
grant, therefore, the Company did not record stock-based compensation expense
under APB Opinion No. 25.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS
No. 123R, "Share-Based Payments" to require that compensation cost relating to
share-based payment arrangements be recognized in the financial statements.

Effective November 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified
prospective method, which requires measurement of compensation cost for all
stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognition of
compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. Therefore,
prior period financial statements have not been restated. The fair value of
stock options were determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which is
consistent with our valuation techniques previously utilized for stock options
in footnote disclosures required under SFAS No. 123. Such fair value is
recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures. The
adoption of SFAS No.123R resulted in no cumulative change in accounting as of
the date of adoption.

Page 22

RISK FACTORS

THE COMPANY HAS A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND NEGATIVE CASH FLOWS FROM
OPERATIONS AND EXPECTS ITS LOSSES AND NEGATIVE CASH FLOWS TO CONTINUE FOR THE
NEXT SEVERAL REPORTING PERIODS.

The Company has incurred significant losses during the last six fiscal years.
The Company incurred net losses of $127,000 for the three months ended January
31, 2006, $924,000 for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2005, $1,390,000 for
the fiscal year ended October 31, 2004; $2,486,000 for the fiscal year ended
October 31, 2003 and $2,110,000 for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2002. As
of January 31, 2006, the Company's accumulated deficit was approximately
$10,139,000. The Company anticipates that it will continue to incur net losses
and negative cash flows for the next several reporting periods. The Company's
ability to achieve and maintain profitability will depend upon its ability to
generate significant increased revenues through new and existing customer
agreements, additional services and/or products offered to existing customers
and to control the costs associated with its business operations. There is no
guarantee that the Company will be able to execute on these requirements. If the
Company becomes profitable for a specific reporting period, it still may not be
able to sustain or increase its profits on a quarterly or annual basis in the
future.

THE COMPANY'S SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE AVIATION INDUSTRY. IF THE COMPANY DOES
NOT EXECUTE ITS BUSINESS PLAN OR IF THE MARKET FOR ITS SERVICES FAILS TO DEVELOP
DUE TO THE DEPRESSED AVIATION INDUSTRY, ITS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
RESULTS COULD CONTINUE TO BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

The Company's revenues are solely derived from the aviation industry. The
Company's future revenues and results of operations are dependent on its
continued execution of its subscription-based revenue strategy and development
of new software solutions and applications for the aviation industry. Due to the
currently depressed aviation industry, it is not assured that the Company will
be able to continue to report growth in its subscription-based business or
sustain its current subscription business. If the Company is unable to sustain
and/or increase its levels of revenues, and is not successful in reducing costs,
its cash requirements may increase and the results of operations will continue
to be adversely affected.

Additionally, the aviation industry has been impacted by budgetary constraints
and airline bankruptcies due to the terrorist events of September 11, 2001, the
war on terrorism and the uncertainty in the current economic climate. The
aviation industry is extensively regulated by government agencies, particularly
the Federal Aviation Administration and The National Transportation Safety
Board. New air travel regulations have been, and management anticipates will
continue to be, implemented that could have a negative impact on airline and
airport revenues. Since substantially all of the Company's revenues are derived
from either airports or airlines, continued increased regulations of the
aviation industry or continued downturn in the economic situation of the
aviation industry could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its
business, financial condition and operating results.

Page 23

RELIANCE ON THE COMPANY'S QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS AS AN INDICATION OF FUTURE
RESULTS IS INAPPROPRIATE DUE TO POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS.

The Company's future revenues and results of operations may fluctuate
significantly due to a combination of factors, including, but not limited to:

      o     Delays and/or decreases in the signing and invoicing of new customer
            contracts;
      o     The length of time needed to initiate and complete customer
            contracts;
      o     Revenues recognized from one-time sales events (selling or upgrading
            systems) versus subscription-based sales;
      o     The introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products
            and services;
      o     The costs associated with providing existing and new products and
            services;
      o     Economic conditions in the United States and the impact on the
            aviation industry from the terrorist events of September 11, 2001
            and continued war or terrorism; and
      o     The potential for future terrorist acts against the aviation
            industry.

Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of the Company's results of
operations should not be relied on as an indication of performance. It is
possible that in future periods results of operations may be below those
expected based upon previous performance.

THE COMPANY MAY BE UNABLE TO RAISE ADDITIONAL FUNDS TO MEET OPERATING CAPITAL
REQUIREMENTS IN THE FUTURE.

The Company has incurred significant negative cash flows from operations over
the past several fiscal years. It has obtained a commitment from its significant
shareholder and Chairman to provide the resources necessary to meet working
capital and liquidity requirements through March 8, 2007. However, future
liquidity and capital requirements are difficult to predict, as they depend on
numerous factors, including the maintenance and growth of existing product lines
and service offerings, as well as the ability to develop, provide and sell new
products in the aviation industry, in which liquidity and resources are already
adversely affected. The Company has significant cost requirements, which are
expected to continue in the future. The Company may need to raise additional
funds in order to support discretionary capital expenditures and execute its
business plan. These funds in some cases may be beyond the scope of normal
operating requirements, for which the Company has a commitment from its
significant shareholder and Chairman, and, therefore, may not be approved and/or
funded. In such case, the Company may be required to seek alternate sources of
financing (which may not be available on favorable terms or at all) or abandon
such activities by either: terminating or eliminating certain operating
activities; terminating personnel; eliminating marketing activities; and/or
eliminating research and development programs. If any of the aforementioned
occurs, the Company's ability to expand and its growth could be adversely
affected.

Page 24

A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMER CONTRACTS ACCOUNTS FOR A HIGH PERCENTAGE OF THE
COMPANY'S REVENUES, AND THE INABILITY TO REPLACE A KEY CUSTOMER CONTRACT COULD
ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

The Company relies on a small number of customer contracts for a large
percentage of its revenues and expects that a significant percentage of its
revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of customer
contracts. The Company's business plan is to obtain additional customers, but
anticipates that near term revenues and operating results will continue to
depend on large contracts from a small number of customers. Additionally, the
aviation industry, particularly the airline sector, has experienced several
Chapter 11 bankruptcy filings recently. Any Chapter 11 filings by our existing
customers may adversely affect our ability to continue such services and collect
payments due to the Company by such customers. As a result of this concentration
of our customer base, an inability to replace one or more of these large
customer contracts could materially adversely affect our business, financial
condition, operating results and cash flow.

THE SOFTWARE BUSINESS FOR THE AVIATION INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, AND
FAILURE TO ADAPT TO THE CHANGING INDUSTRY NEEDS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

The industry in which the Company competes is marked by rapid and substantial
technology change, the steady emergence of new companies and products, as well
as evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. The Company competes
with many established companies in the industry it serves, and some of these
companies may have substantially greater financial, marketing and technology
resources, larger distribution capabilities, earlier access to potential
customers and greater opportunities to address customers' various information
technology requirements. As the aviation industry seeks to be more cost
effective due to the continued economic downturn, product pricing becomes
increasingly important for our customers. As a result, the Company may
experience increased competition from certain, low-price competitors. To remain
competitive, we continue to develop new products and enhance existing products.
We may be unsuccessful in our ability to sell new products and/or product
releases that meet the needs of our industry in light of low-cost, less
functional alternatives available in the market. In addition, the pricing of new
products or releases of existing products may be above that required by the
marketplace. The Company's inability to bring such new products or enhancements
to existing products to the market in a timely manner or the failure of these
products to achieve industry acceptance could adversely affect our business,
financial condition, operating results and cash flow.

THE COMPANY DEPENDS UPON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RETAIN
THESE EMPLOYEES.

The Company's future performance depends on the continued services of its key
technical and engineering personnel. Significant improvements have been made in
the past year to address such issues, in particular, technical redundancy, but
the Company continues to depend on the efforts of a limited number of key
personnel. The employment of any of the Company's key personnel could cease at
any time which could have an adverse affect on our business.

Page 25

THE PASSUR(R) NETWORK COULD EXPERIENCE DISRUPTIONS, WHICH COULD AFFECT THE
DELIVERY OF DATA.

The Company's PASSUR(R) Network infrastructure is maintained and hosted by AT&T
through an existing frame-relay network. If AT&T experiences system failures or
fails to adequately maintain the frame-relay network, the Company may experience
interruption of delivery of data / software services and customers may terminate
or elect not continue to subscribe to these services in the future. The
Company's network infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses,
break-ins, denial of service attacks and similar disruptive problems caused by
third parties, which could lead to interruptions, delays or cessation in service
to customers. There is currently no existing technology that provides absolute
security. Such incidents could deter potential customers and materially
adversely affect existing customer relationships and our business.

THE COMPANY MAY BE SUBJECT TO EXISTING AND NEWLY ISSUED GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
RELATING TO THE DISTRIBUTION OF FLIGHT-TRACKING DATA.

The Company currently maintains strict security regulations for its data in
order to comply with current government regulations. Due to the continued
growing security needs and concerns of the aviation industry, new government
regulations may be implemented. Such new regulations may, in some cases, hinder
the Company's ability to provide current and/or additional services.

UNAUTHORIZED USE OF THE COMPANY'S INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY BY THIRD PARTIES MAY
DAMAGE AND/OR ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

We regard our trademarks, trade secrets and all other intellectual property as
critical to our future success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by
third parties may damage and/or impair our business. Our intellectual property
includes exclusive licenses to use patents held by third parties, as well as
Company-owned patents. We rely on trademarks, trade secrets, patent protection
and contracts, including confidentiality and non-exclusive license agreements
with our customers, employees, consultants, strategic partners and others, to
protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be
possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without
our prior knowledge and/or authorization. Prosecuting infringers could be time
consuming and costly, and irrespective of whether or not the Company is
successful, could disrupt our business.

The Company currently has the exclusive license rights to use fifteen patents in
the United States and various foreign countries, relating to the Company's
PASSUR(R) System and related technologies. The licensed patents expire in
various years through 2013.

We currently own three issued patents. In addition, eleven additional patents
are pending with the United States Patent Office, some of which relate to newly
developed internet-based software applications, derived in large part from the
data generated from the Company's PASSUR(R) systems.

The issued and allowed patents expire in various years through 2023. We also
intend to seek additional patents on our products and technological advances
and/or software applications, when appropriate. There can be no assurance that
patents will be issued for any of our pending or future patent applications or
that any claims allowed from such applications will be of sufficient scope, or
provide adequate protection or any commercial advantage to the Company.
Additionally, our competitors may be able to design around our patents and
possibly affect our commercial interests.

Page 26

The Company also owns a federal trademark registration in the mark PASSUR(R) for
use with both the PASSUR(R) hardware system installation and the software
products which use the data derived from PASSUR(R) and other sources. The
PASSUR(R) federal registration will allow the Company to enforce its rights in
the mark in the federal court system. The registration does not assure that
others will be prevented from using similar trademarks in connection with
related products and/or services.

DEFENDING AGAINST INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS COULD POSE SIGNIFICANT LEGAL AND
PROFESSIONAL COSTS AND, IF UNSUCCESSFUL, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY.

We cannot guarantee that our future products, technologies and software
applications will not inadvertently infringe valid patents or other intellectual
property rights held by third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings
and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others.
Investigations of any claims from third parties alleging infringement of their
intellectual property, whether with or without merit, can be expensive and could
affect development, marketing, selling or delivery of our products. Defending
against intellectual property infringement claims could be time consuming and
costly, and irrespective of whether or not the Company is successful, could
disrupt our business. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against
these third party claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement
claims against the Company may result in significant monetary liability and
could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and
cash flow.

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and the information provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (including, without limitation, "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and
"Risk Factors" above) contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding the Company's
future plans, objectives and expected performance. The words "believe," "may,"
"will," "could," "should," "would," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect,"
"project," "intend," "objective," "seek," "strive," "might," "likely result,"
"build," "grow," "plan," "goal," "expand," "position," or similar words, or the
negatives of these words, or similar terminology, identify forward-looking
statements. These statements are based on assumptions that the Company believes
are reasonable, but are subject to a wide range of risks and uncertainties, and
a number of factors could cause the Company's actual results to differ
materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements referred to
above. These factors include, among others, the uncertainties related to the
ability of the Company to sell data subscriptions from its PASSUR(R) Network and
to make new sales of its PASSUR(R) systems and other product lines as a result
of potential competitive pressure from other companies or other products as well
as the current uncertainty in the aviation industry due to terrorist events, the
war on terror and airline bankruptcies. Other uncertainties which could impact
the Company are uncertainties with respect to future changes in governmental
regulation and the impact such changes in regulation could have on the Company's
business Additional uncertainties are related to a) the Company's ability to
find and maintain the personnel necessary to sell, manufacture and service its
products, b) its ability to adequately protect its intellectual property, c) its
ability to secure future financing and d) its ability to maintain the continued
support of its significant shareholder. Readers are cautioned not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements, which relate only to events as of
the date on which the statements are made and which reflect management's
analysis, judgments, belief or expectation only as of such date. The Company
undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements for any
reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the
future.

Page 27

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

The Company is exposed to market risk from potential changes in interest rates.
The Company regularly evaluates these risks. The Company believes the amount of
risk relating to interest rates is not material to the Company's financial
condition or results of operations. The Company has not and does not anticipate
entering into derivative financial instruments.

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

Under Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
("Exchange Act"), the term "disclosure controls and procedures" refers to the
controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
required time periods. The Company's management, including the Company's Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness
of its disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of period covered by
this report. Based on that evaluation, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls
and procedures were effective as the end of the period covered by this report to
ensure that required information will be recorded, processed, summarized and
reported on a timely basis in the Company's reports filed under the Exchange
Act.

The Company's management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the Company's internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Exchange Act) to determine whether any changes occurred during the period
covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely
to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Based on that evaluation, there has been no such change during the period
covered by this report.

Page 28

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

ITEM 6. EXHIBITS

      31.1  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)
            or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted
            pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

      31.2  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)
            or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted
            pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

      32.1  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
            Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
            Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

      32.2  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
            Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
            Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

Page 29

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                          MEGADATA CORPORATION

DATED: MARCH 14, 2006                     By: /s/ James T. Barry
                                              -----------------------------
                                              James T. Barry, President and
                                                Chief Executive Officer

DATED: MARCH 14, 2006                     By: /s/ Jeffrey P. Devaney
                                              -----------------------------
                                              Jeffrey P. Devaney, Chief
                                                Financial Officer, Treasurer
                                                and Secretary

Page 30

<EX-31.1>
 2
 exh31-1.txt
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 31.1

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
       RULE 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, James T. Barry, certify that:

1.    I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Megadata
      Corporation;

2.    Based on my knowledge, this quarterly report does not contain any untrue
      statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
      make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
      statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
      this report;

3.    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
      information included in this quarterly report, fairly present in all
      material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
      flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      quarterly report;

4.    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant
      and have:

      a.    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
            disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
            supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
            registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known
            to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
            period in which this quarterly report is being prepared;

      b.    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
            and procedures and presented in this quarterly report our
            conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
            procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly
            report based on such evaluation; and

      c.    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
            control over financial reporting that occurred during the
            registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
            fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
            affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
            registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5.    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based
      on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
      reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the
      registrant's board of directors (or person performing the equivalent
      functions):

      a.    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
            or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
            reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
            record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

      b.    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
            other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
            internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 14, 2006
                                By: /s/ James T. Barry
                                    -----------------------------
                                    James T. Barry
                                    Chief Executive Officer
                                    (Principal Executive Officer)

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 exh31-2.txt
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 31.2

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
       RULE 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Jeffrey P. Devaney, certify that:

1.    I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Megadata
      Corporation;

2.    Based on my knowledge, this quarterly report does not contain any untrue
      statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
      make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
      statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
      this report;

3.    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
      information included in this quarterly report, fairly present in all
      material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
      flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      quarterly report;

4.    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant
      and have:

      a.    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
            disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
            supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
            registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known
            to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
            period in which this quarterly report is being prepared;

      b.    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
            and procedures and presented in this quarterly report our
            conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
            procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly
            report based on such evaluation; and

      c.    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
            control over financial reporting that occurred during the
            registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
            fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
            affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
            registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions) :

      a.    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
            or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
            reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
            record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

      b.    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
            other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
            internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 14, 2006
                                By: /s/ Jeffrey P. Devaney
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                    Jeffrey P. Devaney
                                    Chief Financial Officer
                                    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 exh32-1.txt
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 32.1

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the quarterly report of Megadata Corporation (the "Company")
on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2006 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, James
T. Barry, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, that, to my knowledge:

            (1)   The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section
                  13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

            (2)   The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in
                  all material respects, the financial condition and results of
                  operations of the Company.

By: /s/ James T. Barry
                                          -----------------------
                                          James T. Barry
                                          Chief Executive Officer
                                          March 14, 2006

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 exh32-2.txt
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 32.2

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the quarterly report of Megadata Corporation (the "Company")
on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2006 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Jeffrey
P. Devaney, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:

            (1)   The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section
                  13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

            (2)   The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in
                  all material respects, the financial condition and results of
                  operations of the Company.

By: /s/ Jeffrey P. Devaney
                                          -----------------------
                                          Jeffrey P. Devaney
                                          Chief Financial Officer
                                          March 14, 2006

</EX-32.2>

