<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060317_10-Q_edgar_data_865917_0001104659-06-017703_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1119020</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>173348</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>705916</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>26</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>3</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-017703.hdr.sgml : 20060317
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060317161145
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-017703
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		4
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060317
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060317

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VERSANT CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000865917
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				943079392
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-28540
		FILM NUMBER:		06696136

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6539 DUMBARTON CIRCLE
		CITY:			FREMONT
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94555
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5107891500

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6539 DUMBARTON CIRCLE
		CITY:			FREMONT
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94555

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	VERSANT OBJECT TECHNOLOGY CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19960428

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FfTLGya5+W1Ou5sZYtKJUd5+Q/7VGLDobN3lQPoRNQGrIondjzo0ckY/9OnfttIV
 2ptFApO3pBGfAhvKt6a2VQ==

 0001104659-06-017703.txt : 20060317

10-Q
 1
 a06-7111_110q.htm
 QUARTERLY AND TRANSITION REPORTS OF SMALL BUSINESS ISSUERS

United States   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

Form 10-Q   

For the
transition period from
                  
to

Commission
File Number 000-28540   

VERSANT CORPORATION   

  (Exact name of
Registrant as specified in its charter)  

California   

94-3079392   

(State or other
  jurisdiction 
  of incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
  Identification No.)  

6539 Dumbarton Circle, Fremont,
California 94555   

  (Address of principal
executive offices) (Zip code)  

(510) 789-1500   

  Registrant s telephone
number, including area code:  

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the past 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.  Yes         No   o  

Indicate by check mark
whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a
non-accelerated filer.  See definition of
 accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act.  (Check one):  

Large Accelerated Filer   o  

Accelerated Filer   o  

Non-Accelerated Filer      

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).  

o   Yes         No  

As of March 9, 2006,
there were outstanding 3,557,089 shares of the Registrant s common stock, no
par value.  

VERSANT
CORPORATION   

   QUARTERLY
REPORT ON FORM 10-Q   

   For the Quarterly
Period Ended January 31, 2006   

Table
of Contents     

PART I.
  FINANCIAL INFORMATION    

ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

Condensed Consolidated Balance
  Sheets at January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005   

Condensed Consolidated
  Statements of Operations for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and
  January 31, 2005   

Condensed Consolidated
  Statements of Cash Flows for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and
  January 31, 2005   

Notes to Condensed
  Consolidated Financial Statements   

ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
  DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   

ITEM 4. CONTROLS
  AND PROCEDURES   

PART II.
  OTHER INFORMATION    

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   

ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION   

ITEM 6. EXHIBITS   

Signatures   

Certifications  

2  

PART I.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

ITEM 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

VERSANT
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS   

  (in thousands)  

See accompanying
notes to consolidated financial statements.  

3  

VERSANT CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS   

  (in thousands, except for per share amounts)  

  (unaudited)  

See accompanying
notes to condensed consolidated financial statements  

4  

VERSANT
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

  (in thousands)  

  (unaudited)  

See accompanying
notes to condensed consolidated financial statements  

5  

VERSANT
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     NOTES TO
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

   (UNAUDITED)   

NOTE 1.  THE COMPANY AND
BASIS OF PRESENTATION   

Versant Corporation (with
its subsidiaries, collectively referred to in this report as  Versant  or  the
Company ) was incorporated in California in August 1988. Versant is a
leading provider of object-oriented data management software that forms a
critical component of the infrastructure of enterprise computing.  
The Company designs, develops, markets and supports object-oriented database
management system products to solve complex data management and data
integration problems of enterprise. Versant also provides related product
support, training and consulting services to assist users in developing and
deploying software applications based on its products. The Company operates its
business within a single operating segment referred to as Data Management.
Versant s principal executive offices are located in Fremont, California.
Versant has international operations in Germany, the United Kingdom and India
and markets its software products and related maintenance services directly
through telesales and field sales organizations in North America, Germany and
the United Kingdom, and indirectly through distributors and resellers
worldwide. Versant had a total of 96 employees at the end of the quarter ended January 31,
2006.  

The Company is subject to
the risks associated with similar companies in a comparable stage of
development. These risks include, but are not limited to the following:
fluctuations of operating results, seasonality, lengthy sales cycles for its
products, product concentration, dependence on the continued customer
acceptance of object database technology, competition, limited customer base,
dependence on key individuals, dependence on international operations, foreign
currency exchange rate fluctuations and the Company s ability to adequately
finance its ongoing operations.  

Though the Company
reported a profit for the quarter ended January 31, 2006, in its fiscal
year ended October 31, 2005, the Company had not achieved business volume
sufficient to consistently restore profitability and positive cash flow.  The Company operated at a net loss of $14.6
million in fiscal 2005, $12 million in fiscal 2004 and $2.4 million in fiscal
2003. Management anticipates funding future operations from current cash
resources and future cash flows from operations.  However, if the Company s financial results
fall short of projections, additional debt or equity may be required to finance
operations and the Company may need to implement further cost reductions.  No assurances can be given that these efforts
will be successful, if required.  

In July 2005,
Versant, through its subsidiary Versant GmbH, entered into certain agreements
to effect a spin-off of tangible assets, technology rights and contracts
related to its Versant Open Access .NET ( VOA.NET ) business to Vanatec GmbH (a
then newly formed privately held German based company). As a result, in
accordance with FIN 46(R), Vanatec s operating results have been included in
Versant s consolidated financial statements for the three month periods ended July 31,
2005, October 31, 2005 and January 31, 2006, and will be included for
any additional periods in which the criteria of FIN 46(R) for consolidation are
met.  

In February 2006,
Versant completed the sale of the assets associated with its WebSphere 
consulting practice to Sima Solutions, a newly formed privately held U.S. based
corporation. Versant s WebSphere consulting practice provided consulting and
training services to end-users of IBM s WebSphere  application server software.
As a result of this transaction, Versant will cease conducting its WebSphere
consulting practice. Pursuant to this Sale Agreement, Versant sold assets
associated with its WebSphere consulting practice to Sima Solutions.  In connection with this transaction, twelve
employees of Versant, who formerly worked in Versant s WebSphere consulting
practice, left Versant to join Sima Solutions.  

The accompanying
unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments,
which, in the opinion of the Company, are necessary for a fair statement of the
results for the interim periods presented. All such adjustments are normal
recurring adjustments. These financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles related to interim
financial statements and the applicable rules of the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC). Accordingly, they do not include all of the
information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles
for complete financial statements.   

The financial statements
and related disclosures have been prepared with the presumption that users of
the interim financial information have read or have access to the audited
financial statements for the Company s preceding fiscal year. Accordingly,
these financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited
financial statements and the related notes thereto   

6  

contained in the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year ended October 31,
2005, filed on January 30, 2006. Operating results for the three months
ended January 31, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of the results that
may be expected for the full fiscal year ending October 31, 2006, or for
any future periods. Further, the preparation of condensed consolidated
financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the recorded amounts reported therein. A change in facts or
circumstances surrounding the estimates could result in a change to the
estimates and impact future operating results.   

NOTE 2.  STOCK-BASED
COMPENSATION   

Versant maintains a 2005
Equity Incentive Plan, which is a successor and replacement to the Company s
1996 Equity Incentive Plan. The 2005 Equity Incentive Plan was approved by the
Company s shareholders at the Company s annual meeting of shareholders held on August 22,
2005.  The standard term of stock options
granted pursuant to the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan and its 1996 predecessor
plan is ten years from the date of grant (subject to earlier termination if the
option holder ceases to be employed or another service relationship with the
Company).  Under the standard vesting schedule for
options granted under the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan and its predecessor 1996
Plan, for so long as the option holder continues to be employed by or otherwise
provide services to the Company, options vest and become exercisable in
installments over a three-year period, with 25% of the shares subject to the
option vesting and becoming exercisable on the date nine months after the
option was granted and 1/27 of the remaining 75% of the option shares vesting
each month thereafter over the next 27 months.  

Versant also maintains a
2005 Directors Stock Option Plan, which is a successor and replacement to the
Company s 1996 Directors Stock Option Plan. The 2005 Directors Stock Option
Plan was approved by the Company s shareholders at the Company s annual meeting
of shareholders held on August 22, 2005.  
Options granted under the 2005 Directors Stock Option Plan and its
predecessor 1996 plan are immediately exercisable.  However, if a director ceases to be a member
of the Company s board of directors or a consultant to the Company at any time
within the two-year period after he or she is granted an option under these
plans, then any shares the director purchases upon exercise of such option that
are unvested when he or she ceases to be a director or a consultant may, at the
Company s option, be repurchased by the Company at their original purchase
price per share. Under the standard vesting schedule for options granted
under the 2005 Directors Stock Option Plan and its predecessor 1996 plan, for
so long as the option holder continuously serves as a member of the Company s
board of directors or as a consultant, 50% of the shares subject to an option
granted to such director under these plans will vest free of the Company s
repurchase option on each of the first two anniversaries of the date such
option is granted.  

Lastly, the Company
maintains a 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which was approved by the
Company s shareholders in 1996 and which will remain in effect until late May 2006
when it will expire and be replaced by the Company s 2005 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan, a successor plan that will become operative effective June 1,
2006.  The 2005 Employee Stock Purchase
Plan was approved by the Company s shareholders at the Company s annual meeting
of shareholders held on August 22, 2005. Under the 1996 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan, each offering of common shares thereunder is for a period of
twenty-four months, consisting of four six-month purchase periods.  Under the 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan,
each offering of common shares thereunder will be for a period of twelve
months, consisting of two six-month purchase periods. The purchase price of
shares, which employees may acquire at any purchase period, is 85% of the
lesser of either of the following: the fair market value of the shares on the
offering date; or the fair market value of the shares on the purchase date.  

A more detailed
description of each of the above-mentioned stock and stock option plans can be
found in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the
Company contained in the Company s annual report on Form 10-KSB filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 30, 2006.  

Versant estimates the
fair value of employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under its
employee stock purchase plan, or  ESPP  using a Black-Scholes-Merton
Option-Pricing Model. This is consistent with the provisions of SFAS 123(R),
SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. ( SAB ) 107,   Share-Based
Payment,   and the Company s prior period pro forma disclosures of net
earnings, including share-based compensation (determined under a fair value
method as prescribed by SFAS 123).   

Prior to November 1,
2005, Versant accounted for the above plans under the recognition and
measurement provisions of APB Opinion No. 25,   Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees  , and its related Interpretations, as
permitted by FASB Statement No. 123,   Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation  . No option-based employee compensation cost was
recognized in the Statement of Operations for the fiscal year ended October 31,
2005, since all options granted under those plans had an exercise price equal
to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. The
Company also did not record any compensation   

7  

expense in connection
with its Employee Stock Purchase Plan since the purchase price of the stock was
85% of the lower of the fair market value of its common stock at the beginning
or the end of each offering period.   

Effective November 1,
2005, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB
Statement No. 123(R),   Share-Based Payment  ,
and Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ( SAB
107 ), using the modified-prospective transition method. Under the
modified-prospective transition method, the recognized compensation costs
during fiscal 2006 include the following components:  

First, compensation cost
for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of November 1,
2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
original provisions of SFAS 123.   

Second, compensation cost
for all share-based payments granted subsequent to November 1, 2005, based
on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS
123(R).   

The purchase price of
shares, which employees may acquire under ESPP at any purchase period, is 85%
of the lesser of either of the following: the fair market value of the shares
on the offering date or the fair market value of the shares on the purchase
date. Since the 85% threshold is no longer a   safe harbor  
under SFAS 123(R), Versant recorded the fair value of the shares that will be
granted under the November ESPP enrollment in the quarter ended January 31,
2006.  

SFAS 123(R) requires
forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised if necessary in
subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Under
SFAS 123(R), the Company estimated that approximately 58% of the unrecorded
deferred share-based compensation amount for options as of January 31,
2006 would not be recognized due to forfeiture. Versant has assumed that there
is no forfeiture for rights under its ESPP during the current offering period
since the current value of its common stock exceeds the fair market value of
its common stock at the beginning of the offering period. Versant applies the   forfeiture rate   to the unvested portion of the option
valuation and performs a true up for the amount of the valuation to be recorded
if the   forfeiture rate   is different from the
one applied on prior periods.   

As of October 31,
2005, the unrecorded deferred share-based compensation balance related to stock
options was $537,000 and will be recognized using the straight-line attribution
method ratably over the next three years. Versant will adjust total
unrecognized compensation cost, based on future changes in estimated forfeiture
rates.  

The
fair value of each option granted  and each share issued under the ESPP is estimated on the date of grant, using the
Black-Scholes-Merton Model, based on the
following weighted average assumptions:  

Versant uses a historical
model to arrive at the expected life of its options, but it takes into
consideration other factors that could possibly impact the future expected life
of the options. The Company determined that the estimated expected life of the
options granted under the Equity Incentive Plan is three years.   

The expected life for the
options granted to the board members under the Directors Plan, who are not full
time employees of Versant, is 5.5 years. Versant used the   simplified
method   allowed by SAB 107 to arrive at this calculation. Under the   simplified method  ,     the expected
term is equal to vesting term plus original contractual term divided by two.  

Versant uses the U.S.
Treasury Strip rates listed on the last Thursday of every month on the   Wall Street Journal   to compute   risk-free
interest rate.    

8  

Versant uses the
historical volatility over the expected term of the options to estimate the
expected volatility. The Company, however, takes into account other current
information available to determine the expected volatility, derived based on
historical volatility. Versant believes that the historical volatility, at this
time, represents fairly the future volatility of its common stock.   

As a result of adopting
Statement 123(R) on November 1, 2005, the Company s net income before
income taxes for the three months ended January 31, 2006 is $57,000 lower,
than if it had continued to account for share-based compensation under Opinion No. 25.

Versant currently does
not expect to receive any tax benefits in fiscal 2006 for any expense
deductions resulting from expensing of stock options or shares issued under its
ESPP plan. On November 10, 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
( FASB ) issued FASB Staff Position No. FSP FAS 123(R)-3,   Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of
Share-Based Payment Awards  . Versant currently provides a full
valuation allowance for its deferred tax assets, accordingly, a valuation
allowance is also provided for any tax effects of stock-based compensation
expense pursuant to SFAS 123(R).   

Versant has not
distributed any dividend to its common shareholders and does not expect to do
so in the near future.  

The following table
illustrates the effect on the Company s net income and earnings per share for
the quarter ended January 31, 2005 as if Versant had applied the fair
value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) to share-based
compensation using the Black-Scholes-Merton Model valuation model (in
thousands, except per share data):  

Three Months Ended 
  January 31,   

2005   

Net income, as
  reported  

$  

345  

Add: Stock-based
  employee compensation expense previously included in reported net income, net
  of related tax effects  

26  

Deduct:
  Stock-based employee compensation expense determined under fair value-based
  method for all awards, net of related tax effects  

(199  

)  

Pro forma net
  income  

$  

172  

Basic net income
  per share:  

As reported  

$  

.10  

Pro forma  

$  

.05  

Diluted net
  income per share:  

As reported  

$  

.10  

Pro forma  

$  

.05  

The following table
summarizes the option activities for the periods ended January 31, 2006
and January 31, 2005:  

9  

NOTE 3.   NET INCOME PER SHARE   

Basic net income per
share excludes the effect of potentially dilutive securities and is computed by
dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
for the period. Diluted net income per share reflects the potential dilution of
securities by adding dilutive common stock options and shares subject to
repurchase to the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the
period.   

A reconciliation of the
numerators and denominators used in the calculation of basic and diluted net income
per share is as follows (in thousands, except per share data):  

NOTE 4.    OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   

Other comprehensive
income presented in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet consists of
cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments.  

For the periods
presented, other comprehensive income is as follows (in thousands):  

NOTE 5.   ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL
ACCOUNTS    

Activities in the Company s
allowance for doubtful accounts are as follows (in thousands):  

10  

NOTE 6.   SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION   

Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131,   Disclosures about Segments
of an Enterprise and Related Information,   establishes standards for
the manner in which public companies report information about operating
segments in annual and interim financial statements. It also establishes
standards for related disclosures about products and services, geographic
areas, and major customers. The method for determining what information to
report is based on the way management organizes the operating segments within
the Company for making operating decisions and assessing financial performance.
The Company s chief operating decision-maker is considered to be the Company s
chief executive officer (CEO). The CEO reviews financial information presented
on an entity level basis accompanied by non-aggregated information about
revenues by product type and certain information about geographic regions for
purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. The
entity level financial information is identical to the information presented in
the accompanying statements of operations. Therefore, the Company has
determined that it operates in a single operating segment, Data Management.   

The Company operates in
North America, Europe and Asia. In general, revenues are attributed to the
country in which the contract originates.   

The following tables
summarize revenues and long-lived assets by each geographic region (in
thousands):  

The decline in long-lived
assets in Europe was mainly due to reclassification of rental deposits from
long-lived to current assets for $129,000 and disposal of fixed assets related
to Vanatec spin off for $25,000.  

NOTE 7.  RESTRUCTURING   

Versant has undergone
several restructuring programs since fiscal 2004 with the intent of reducing
its ongoing operating costs.  

In July 2005,
Versant committed to and began implementing a restructuring program to realign
resources to focus on its Versant Object Database product. Versant assessed its
product portfolio and associated research and development efforts and
expenditures, and then streamlined the rest of its operations to support those
reassessments. Versant planned to spin off and eliminate marginally profitable
or non-strategic products lines, consolidate development activities, eliminate
four management positions and certain duplicate positions in marketing
functions and programs, and centralize its sales support functions.   

In July 2005,
Versant, through its subsidiary Versant GmbH, entered into certain agreements to
effect a spin-off of tangible assets, technology rights and contracts related
to its Versant Open Access .NET ( VOA.NET ) business to Vanatec GmbH ( Vanatec ),
a then newly formed privately held German based company. In connection with
that spin-off, seven former Versant employees departed Versant to join Vanatec,
and a partnership formed by those individuals, which received an 80.4% equity
interest in Vanatec, with Versant retaining the remaining 19.6% equity interest
in Vanatec. In connection with the spin-off, on July 29, 2005, Versant
committed to provide funding to Vanatec in a total amount not to exceed 425,000
euros (or $520,000) in two equal installments of 212,500 euros (or $260,000)
each on August 3, 2004 and November 3, 2005.  In addition, during the three months   

11  

ended July 31, 2005,
Versant contributed 25,000 euros (or $30,000) to Vanatec, for a total cash
capital contributed and committed by Versant to Vanatec of 450,000 euros (or
$550,000).   

VOA.NET was one of the
aforementioned non-strategic product lines which Versant decided to spin off as
part of its restructuring efforts designed to enable Versant to focus on its
core database business and progress towards its long-term profitability goal.
Versant has committed no additional funding beyond the $550,000 referred to
above and has no further obligations to Vanatec.   

Versant recorded total
restructuring charges of approximately $135,000 for the three months ended January 31,
2006, which consisted primarily of $120,000 in severance payments due to
headcount reductions and $15,000 related to the closing down of facilities and
legal expenses related to the sale of the assets of Versant s WebSphere
consulting practice, which occurred in February 2006. With the completion
of the sale of the assets associated with its WebSphere consulting practice,
Versant has effectively completed the restructuring plan it initiated in July 2005
and expects to incur approximately $70,000 additional expenses in the second
quarter ending April 30, 2006. These expenses consist of restructuring
severance payments for $46,000 and expenses related to disposal of WebSphere
assets for $24,000.  

As of January 31,
2006, there remains $1.1 million of restructuring accrual and zero variable
interest entity liability on Versant s consolidated balance sheet. The
following table summarizes the Company s restructuring activities from October 31, 2005
through January 31, 2006 (in thousands):  

The facility lease
payments during the three months ended January 31, 2006 was related to
Versant s obligations for its California and European facilities, which were
accrued for as part of restructuring plans.  

NOTE 8. CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE
INTEREST ENTITY   

Versant determined that
the equity at risk in Vanatec is not sufficient to permit the company to
finance its activities without additional subordinated     financial
support; therefore, Versant has determined that Vanatec is a variable interest
entity in accordance with FIN  
46(R),   Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  
(As Amended).  As a result, in accordance
with FIN 46(R), Vanatec s operating results have been included in Versant s
consolidated financial statements for the three month periods ended July 31,
2005, October 31, 2005 and January 31, 2006, and will be included for
any additional periods in which the criteria of FIN 46(R) for consolidation are
met. During the three months ended January 31, 2006, Versant absorbed its
share of Vanatec s losses up to the point that the variable interest liability
was reduced to zero; and subsequently has absorbed 100% of the losses that Vanatec
has incurred for an additional amount of $35,000. Versant will continue to
absorb 100% of the losses of Vanatec in the future for so long as Vanatec has a
negative equity on its balance sheet and as long as Versant is required to
consolidate the operating results of Vanatec under FIN 46(R).   

NOTE 9.  GOODWILL   

The balance of goodwill
as of January 31, 2005 and January 31, 2006 is as follows (in
thousands):  

12  

NOTE 10.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS   

Intangible assets consist
of acquired technology and customer relationships amortized over a period
between five and eight years. The Company s intangible assets balances as of January 31,
2005 and January 31, 2006 are as follows (in thousands):  

The projected
amortization of intangible assets is as follows (in thousands):  

NOTE 11. WARRANTY INDEMNIFICATION
OBLIGATIONS   

FASB Interpretation No. ( FIN )
45,   Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others  ,
requires a guarantor to recognize a liability for and/or disclose obligations
it has undertaken in relation to the issuance of the guarantee. Under this
guidance, arrangements involving indemnification clauses are subject to the
disclosure requirements of FIN 45 only.   

The Company s software
license agreements generally include certain provisions for indemnifying
customers against liabilities if the Company s software products infringe upon
a third party s intellectual property rights. To date, the Company has not incurred
any material costs as a result of any indemnification; therefore, the Company
has not accrued any expenses for such indemnity liabilities either in the U.S.
or Europe.   

The Company s software
license agreements also generally include a warranty that the Company s
software products will substantially operate as described in the applicable
program documentation. The Company also warrants that services the Company
performs will be provided in a manner consistent with industry standards. To
date, Versant has not incurred any material costs associated with these
warranties, and as such the Company has not provided for any reserves for any
such warranty liabilities in its U.S. operation results.   

In Europe, however, there
is a statutory one-year warranty requirement for all the Company s products and
services. As a result, Versant had a warranty reserve for $65,000 and $10,000
for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

NOTE 12. LINE OF CREDIT   

On June 21, 2005,
Versant and a financial institution entered into a Loan and Security Agreement,
a Streamline Facility Agreement and an Intellectual Property Security Agreement
(collectively, the  Loan Agreements ). Under the terms of these Loan
Agreements, Versant may borrow up to a maximum of $3.0 million from the
financial institution at     any one time
under a revolving secured accounts receivable-based line of credit. This line
of credit permits Versant to obtain short-term loan advances from the financial
institution equal to 80% of the face amount of specific eligible accounts
receivable of Versant. The interest rate on each advance will be either 4.0% or
4.5% above the financial institution s prime rate. There were zero and $39,000
outstanding debt under this credit line as of January 31, 2006 and October 31,
2005, respectively.   

13  

NOTE 13.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION   

The Company paid one of
its directors, Bernhard Woebker, $15,000 in the quarter ended January 31,
2006 for consulting services, in addition to the amounts paid to Mr. Woebker
as part of the Company s standard compensation to outside, non-employee
directors.  

NOTE 14.  FORFEITURE OF COMMON STOCK   

In October 2004,
Systems America Inc. served a complaint against Versant in a lawsuit alleging
that former employees of Systems America who left that company to form Mokume
Software, Inc. ( Mokume ) misappropriated Systems America trade secrets
and confidential information, unfairly competed with Systems America and
infringed Systems America s trademarks. The Systems America suit alleged that
when Versant acquired Mokume in November 2002, it acquired the benefit of
the allegedly misappropriated trade secrets, confidential information, customer
relationships, trademarks and trade names, and thus Systems America sought
damages and injunctive relief from Versant. In connection with this litigation,
Versant in turn sought indemnification from the former stockholders of Mokume
under the terms of the merger agreement pursuant to which Versant acquired
Mokume. Versant s indemnification claims were made on the grounds that the
allegations in and the existence of the Systems America litigation constituted
a breach of certain representations and warranties made by the former Mokume
stockholders to Versant in the merger agreement. Versant s indemnification
rights entitled Versant to obtain indemnification by canceling and recovering
certain shares of Versant Common Stock issued to the former Mokume stockholders
in connection with Versant s acquisition of Mokume. Pursuant to a written
agreement with the representative of the former Mokume stockholders in
accordance with the merger agreement, 8,998 shares of Versant Common Stock held
by the former Mokume stockholders were forfeited and cancelled as of January 12,
2006 in satisfaction of Versant s indemnification rights. As a result of this
transaction, Versant reversed $55,000 from its legal expenses during the
quarter ended January 31, 2006.  

NOTE
15.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS   

On February 1, 2006
Versant completed the sale of the assets associated with its WebSphere
consulting practice to Sima Solutions, a privately held U.S. based company.
Versant s WebSphere practice provided consulting and training services to
end-users of IBM s WebSphere  application server software. As a result of this
transaction Versant will cease conducting its WebSphere practice. In connection
with Versant s sale of its WebSphere assets, certain employees of Versant, who
formerly worked in Versant s WebSphere Practice, will join Sima Solutions.  

The WebSphere
transaction, based on SFAS 144 (  Impairments of Long-Lived
Assets and Discontinued Operations  ), met the criteria of a
long-lived asset (disposal group) held for sale at the end of the first quarter
ended January 31, 2006. As a result, Versant reflects the results of
operations of the WebSphere consulting practice for the quarters ended January 31,
2006 and January 31, 2005 as discontinued operations. Therefore, reported
revenues for these two quarters no longer include revenue from the WebSphere
consulting practice. The results from the discontinued WebSphere operations,
however, are reported as earnings or losses from discontinued operations, net
of income taxes.   

The WebSphere sale
transaction itself will be reflected in the quarter ending April 30, 2006,
and potential earn-out payments will be recognized if and when achieved during
the remainder of fiscal 2006 and beyond.  

The sale of Versant s
WebSphere consulting practice assets was consummated pursuant to an Asset
Purchase Agreement dated February 1, 2006 (the  Sale Agreement ) between
Versant and Sima. Versant estimates that the additional charges for the sale of
the WebSphere consulting practice assets is approximately $24,000, including
$16,000 related to computer equipment transferred to WebSphere as part of this
transaction.  

Pursuant to the Sale
Agreement, Sima acquired assets, consisting principally of certain contracts
with customers, contractors and business partners of Versant s WebSphere
consulting practice, an office lease in the Chicago, Illinois area, certain
office equipment, customer lists, marketing information and marketing
collateral. In exchange for these assets, Sima assumed certain liabilities
associated with the WebSphere consulting practice, paid Versant $500,000 in
cash and agreed to make certain contingent cash  earn-out  payments to Versant
based on varying percentages of the revenues Sima collects from its operation
of the WebSphere practice during the 24-month period immediately following
closing of this transaction, substantially as follows:  

14  

During
the first 12 months following the closing of the sale to Sima (the  First Year ),
Sima has agreed to pay Versant: (i) 12% of the first $3.74 million of
earn-out revenue collected during the First Year, if any; (ii) 5% of the
next $2.0 million of earn-out revenue collected during the First Year, if any;
and (iii) 2% of any other earn-out revenue collected during the First Year
in excess of $5.74 million. 

During
the second twelve months immediately following the First Year (the  Second Year ),
Sima has agreed to pay Versant: (i) 12% of the first $3.74 million of
earn-out revenue collected during the Second Year, if any; (ii) 5% of the
next $2.0 million of earn-out revenue collected during the Second Year, if any;
and (iii) 2% of any other earn-out revenue collected during the Second
Year in excess of $5.74 million. 

The above earn-out
payment formula is subject to certain adjustments, including adjustments which
reduce the dollar thresholds at which the percentages of earn-out revenue are
to be paid under the above formula if certain former Versant employees do not
remain employed by Sima for a certain time period following the closing of the
WebSphere transaction.  

NOTE 16.  RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS     

  In May 2005, the
FASB issued SFAS 154,   Accounting Changes and
Error Corrections  . This new standard replaces APB Opinion 20,   Accounting Changes   and SFAS 3,   Reporting
Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements  . Among other
changes, SFAS 154 requires that a voluntary change in accounting principle be
applied retrospectively with all prior period financial statements presented on
the new accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to do so. SFAS 154
also provides that a change in method of depreciating or amortizing a
long-lived non-financial asset be accounted for as a change in estimate
(prospectively) that was effected by a change in accounting principle, and that
corrections of previously issued financial statements should be termed a   restatement  . The new standard is effective for accounting
changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2005. Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on
the Company s financial position or results of operations.   

In February 2006,
the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FSP FAS 123(R)-4, which addresses
the classification of options and similar instruments issued as employee
compensation that allow for cash settlement upon occurrence of a contingent
event. The guidance on this FSP shall be applied upon initial adoption of SFAS
123(R). Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on
the Company s financial position or results of operations.   

ITEM 2. 
MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS   

This discussion and analysis
should be read in conjunction with the Company s financial statements and
accompanying notes included in this report and the 2005 audited financial
statements and notes thereto included in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB
for the year ended October 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission ( SEC ) on January 30, 2006. Our historic operating results are
not necessarily indicative of results that may occur in future periods.   

The following discussion and
analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities
Act of 1933. The forward-looking statements include, among other things,
statements regarding the Company s expected future financial performance,
assets, liquidity and trends anticipated for the Company s business. These
statements are based on the Company s current expectations, assumptions,
estimates and projections about the Company s business and the Company s
industry, based on information that is reasonably available to the Company as
of the date of this report. Forward-looking statements many include words such
as  believes,   anticipates,   expects,   intends,   plans,   will,   may,   should, 
 estimates,   predicts,   forecasts,   guidance,   potential,   continue  or
the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. These forward-looking
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors
that may cause the Company s actual operating results, levels of activity,
performance or achievement to be materially different from any future operating
results, levels of activity, performance or achievements that are expressed,
forecasted, projected,  implied in or
anticipated or contemplated by the forward-looking statements.  These known and unknown risks, uncertainties
and other factors include,  but are not
limited to, those risks, uncertainties and factors discussed under the
subheading  Risk Factors  in this Item 2 and those discussed elsewhere in this
report (including those in Item 1A of Part II of this report), in the
Company s other SEC filings and under the heading  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in the Company s  report on Form 10-KSB for the fiscal
year ended October 31, 2005. Versant undertakes no obligation to revise or
update any forward-looking statement in order to reflect events or
circumstances that may arise or occur after the date of this report.   

15  

Certain Industry Terms   

We have listed below, for
reference purposes, certain technical terms that are well known and often used
in our industry. We have defined these terms here to assist readers in better
understanding the information provided in this report:  

Relational Database   is a type of data
management software that stores data as tables and columns and can be accessed
using an industry standard language called SQL. 

Application Server Software   is a form
of deployment software that is used to build and deploy Internet applications,
including commercial websites and internal company websites. 

Cache   Performance  works with servers to improve and enhance their
response times and throughput. 

Integration Framework   can connect two
disparate pieces of software together. 

XML   is the standard format used to
exchange data (information) between multiple software systems. 

Object-Oriented   refers to a form of
software that uses smaller building blocks called objects to create larger
software systems. 

Data Integration   is a broad term for a
variety of techniques that enable the data used by one software system to be
used in other software systems. 

Replication   is a range of technical
methods that enable multiple databases to be approximately synchronized, or to
contain the same data. 

Disk Mirroring   uses specialized
software, and often specialized hardware, to get the same data on two storage
disks for the purpose of increasing the reliability or making a quick snapshot
(duplicate backup) of a database. 

Fault
Tolerant Server  is a server that offers higher reliability by the use of
duplicated hardware and specialized software. If a failure occurs in one of the
databases, the surviving database will continue to provide normal service. 

J2EE-based   is an application or
software component that is deployed in a Java 2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE) software
environment. 

Zero-administration   is an application
that has been constructed so that no intervention from a Database Administrator
is required. 

Native-Applications   are constructed
from a large number of individual software pieces. The construction is usually
easier and resulting application more reliable when the software pieces are
built using the same software language, with compatible interaction methods,
and running on the same operating system. These interactions would be called  native .
In the less-desirable case, there will the need for conversions and
adaptations, and the interactions could be called  non-native . 

Background
and Overview    

We design, develop,
market and support high performance object database management, data access and
data integration software systems and provide related services to address the
complex data management needs of enterprises and providers of products
requiring data management functions. Our products and services collectively
comprise our single operating segment, which we call  Data Management .  

Our products are
typically used by customers to manage data for business systems to enable these
systems to access and integrate data necessary for their data management
applications. Our data management products and services offer customers the
ability to manage real-time, XML and other types of hierarchical and
navigational data. We believe that by using our data management solutions,
customers cut hardware costs, accelerate and simplify development, significantly
reduce administration costs and deliver products with a significant competitive
edge.  

16  

Our Data Management
business is currently comprised of the following key products:  

Versant Object Database,   a seventh generation object
database management system, is used in high-performance, large-scale, real-time
applications. Our former product, Versant enJin, has been replaced by Versant
Object Database using Java Data Object (JDO) and the Java Persistence API
language interface. 

Versant Developer Suite (VDS)  , a sixth generation
object database management system, is designed to support multi-user,
commercial applications in distributed environments. VDS enables users to
store, manage, and distribute information that they believe often cannot be
administered effectively through traditional database technologies. 

FastObjects  , an object-oriented database management system ,
is designed to be embedded as a high performance component into customers 
applications and systems. FastObjects is used in a vast range of applications,
including medical devices, vending machines, telecom equipment and defense
systems.  

In addition to our
product offerings, to assist users in developing and deploying applications
based on Versant Object Database, VDS and FastObjects, we offer a variety of
services, including consulting, training and technical support services.   

In addition to these
products and services, we resell related software developed by third parties.
To date, substantially all of our revenues have been derived from the following
data management products and related services:  

sales of licenses for Versant Object Database, VDS, FastObjects, and to a much
lesser extent, Versant Open Access; 

maintenance and technical support services for our products; 

consulting services (Versant and Poet consulting practice and our former
dedicated IBM WebSphere consulting practice, which we sold in February 2006)
and training services; 

nonrecurring engineering fees received in connection with providing services
associated with Versant Object Database, VDS and FastObjects; 

the resale of licenses, and maintenance, training and consulting services, for
third-party products that complement Versant Object Database, VDS and FastObjects; 

reimbursements received for out-of-pocket expenses we incur and which are
recorded as revenues in our statement of operations. 

Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates   

The preparation of our
consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments
that affect the reported amount of our assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and of our revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. We base these estimates and judgments on information reasonably
available to us, such as our historical experience and trends and industry,
economic and seasonal fluctuations, and on our own internal projections that we
derive from that information. Although we believe our estimates to be
reasonable under the circumstances, there can be no assurances that such
estimates will be accurate given that the application of these accounting
policies necessarily involves the exercise of subjective judgment and the
making of assumptions regarding future uncertainties. We consider  critical 
those accounting policies that require our most difficult, subjective or
complex judgments, and that are the most important to the portrayal of our
financial condition and results of operations. These critical accounting
policies relate to revenue recognition, goodwill and acquired intangible
assets, the determination of allowance for doubtful accounts, the determination
of the amount of stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, and income
taxes.    

Revenue
Recognition    

We recognize revenues in
accordance with the provisions of Statement of Position (SOP) 97-2,   Software Revenue Recognition,   SOP 98-9, Modification of SOP
97-2  , Software Revenue Recognition with Respect to
Certain Transactions,   and SOP 81-1,   Accounting
for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts  .
Revenues consist mainly of revenues   

17  

earned under software
license agreements, maintenance support agreements (otherwise known as
post-contract customer support or  PCS ), and agreements for consulting and
training activities.  

We use the residual
method to recognize revenues when a license agreement includes one or more
elements to be delivered at a future date. If there is an undelivered element under
the license arrangement, we defer revenues based on vendor-specific objective
evidence, or VSOE, of the fair value of the undelivered element, as determined
by the price charged when the element is sold separately. If VSOE of fair value
does not exist for all undelivered elements of a transaction, we defer all
revenues from that transaction until sufficient evidence exists or all elements
have been delivered. Under the residual method, discounts are allocated only to
the delivered elements in a multiple element arrangement, with any undelivered
elements being deferred based on the vendor-specific objective evidence of the
value of such undelivered elements. We typically do not offer discounts on
future undeveloped products.  

Revenues from software
license arrangements, including prepaid license fees, are recognized when all
of the following criteria are met:  

Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists. 

Delivery has occurred and there are no future deliverables except PCS. 

The fee is fixed and determinable. If we cannot conclude that a fee is fixed
and determinable, then assuming all other criteria have been met, revenues are
recognized as payments become due in accordance with paragraph 29 of SOP 97-2. 

Collection is probable. Probability of collection is assessed using the
following customer information: credit service reports, bank and trade
references, public filings, and/or current financial statements. Prior payment
experience is reviewed on all existing customers. Payment terms in excess of
our standard payment terms of 30-90 days net are granted on an exception basis,
typically in situations where customers elect to purchase development and
deployment licenses simultaneously for an entire project and are attempting to
align their payments with their deployment schedules. Extended payment terms
are only granted to customers with a proven ability to pay at the time the
order is received, and with prior approval of our senior management. In
accordance with paragraph 27 of SOP 97-2, we have an established history of
collection, without concessions, on longer-term receivables. We typically do
not grant extended payment terms beyond 90 days.  

If an acceptance period
or other contingency exists, revenues are not recognized until customer
acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period, or satisfaction of the
contingency, as applicable. Our license fees are non-cancelable and
non-refundable and we do not make concessions or grant a refund for any unused
amount. Also, our customer agreements for prepaid deployment licenses do not
make payment of our license fees contingent upon the actual deployment of its
software. Therefore, a customer s delay or acceleration in its deployment schedule does
not impact our revenue recognition. Revenues from related PCS for all product
lines are usually billed in advance of the service being provided and are
deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the term in which the PCS
is to be performed, which is generally twelve months. In some cases PCS revenues
are paid in arrears of the service being provided and are recognized as
revenues at the time the customer provides a report to us for deployments made
during a given time period. Training and consulting revenues are recognized
when a purchase order is received, the services have been performed and
collection is deemed probable. Consulting services are billed on an hourly,
daily or monthly rate. Training classes are billed based on group or individual
attendance.  

We categorize our
customers into two broad groups, End-Users and Value Added Resellers (VARs).
End User customers are companies who use our products internally and do not
redistribute the product outside of their corporate organizations. VAR
customers include traditional Value Added Resellers, Systems Integrators, OEMs
and other vendors who redistribute our products to their external third party
customers, either individually or as part of an integrated product.   

We license our data
management products through two types of perpetual licenses development and
test licenses and deployment licenses. Development and test licenses are
typically sold on a per seat basis and authorize a customer to develop and test
an application program that uses our software product. Before an End-User
customer may deploy an application that it has developed under our development
license, it must purchase deployment licenses based on the number of computers
connected to the server that will run the application using our database
management system. For certain applications, we offer deployment licenses
priced on a per user basis. Pricing of Versant Object Database and FastObjects
licenses varies according to several factors, including the number of computer
servers on which the application runs and the number of users that are able to
access the server at any one   

18  

time. Customers may elect
to simultaneously purchase development and deployment licenses for an entire
project. These development and deployment licenses may also provide for
prepayment of a nonrefundable amount for future deployment  .    

VARs and distributors
purchase development licenses from us on a per seat basis on terms similar to
those of development licenses sold directly to End-Users. VARs are authorized
to sublicense deployment copies of our data management products that are either
bundled or embedded in the VAR s applications and sold directly to End-Users.
VARs are required to report their distribution of our software and are charged
a royalty that is based either on the number of copies of our application
software that are distributed or computed as a percentage of the selling price
charged by the VARs to their end-user customers. These royalties from VARs may
be prepaid in full or paid upon deployment. Provided that all other conditions
for revenue recognition have been met, revenues from arrangements with VARs are
recognized, (i) as to prepaid license arrangements, when the prepaid
licenses are sold to the VARs, and (ii) as to other license arrangements,
at the time the VAR provides a royalty report to us for sales made by the VAR
during a given period.  

Revenues from the resale
of third-party products or services are recorded at total contract value with
the corresponding cost included in the cost of sales when we act as a principal
in these transactions by assuming the risks and rewards of ownership (including
the risk of loss for collection, delivery or returns). When we do not assume
the risks and rewards of ownership, revenues from the resale of third-party
products or services are recorded at contract value net of the cost of sales.  

In rare cases that a
customer requests engineering work for porting our products to an unsupported
platform or customization of our software for specific functionality, or any
other non-routine technical work, we recognize revenues in accordance with SOP
81-1 and use either time and material percentage of completion or completed
contract methods for recognizing revenues. We use the percentage of completion
method if we can make reasonable and dependable estimates of labor costs and
hours required to complete the work in question. We periodically review these
estimates in connection with work performed and rates actually charged and
recognize any losses when identified. Progress to completion is determined
using the cost-to-cost method, whereby cost incurred to date as a percentage of
total estimated cost determines the percentage completed and revenue
recognized. When using the percentage of completion method, the following conditions
must exist:  

An agreement must include provisions that clearly specify the rights regarding
goods or services to be provided and received by both parties, the
consideration to be exchanged and the manner and terms of settlement. 

The customers are able to satisfy their obligations under the contract. 

Versant is able to satisfy its obligations under the contract. 

The completed contract
method is used when reasonable or dependable estimates cannot be made. As a
result, in such situations, we defer all revenues until such time that the work
is fully completed.  

Management makes
significant judgments and estimates in connection with the determination of the
revenue recognized in each accounting period. If we had made different
judgments or utilized different estimates for any period, material differences
in the amount and timing of revenue recognized would have resulted.  

Goodwill
and Acquired Intangible Assets    

We account for purchases
of acquired companies in accordance with SFAS No. 141,   Business Combinations   and account for the related acquired
intangible assets in accordance with SFAS No. 142,   Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets  . In accordance with SFAS 141, we allocate
the cost of the acquired companies to the identifiable tangible and intangible
assets acquired according to their respective fair values as of the date of
completion of the acquisition, with the remaining amount being classified as
goodwill. Certain intangible assets, such as  acquired technology,  are
amortized to expense over time, while in-process research and development costs
( IPR D ), if any, are charged to operations expenditures at the time of
acquisition.  

We test for any goodwill
impairment within our single Data Management operating segment. All our
goodwill has been aggregated from, and acquired in connection with, the
following acquisitions:  

Versant Europe, acquired in 1997; 

Poet Holdings, Inc., acquired in March 2004; 

Technology of JDO Genie (PTY) Ltd, acquired in June 2004; and 

19  

FastObjects, Inc., acquired in July 2004. 

We test goodwill for
impairment in accordance with SFAS 142, which requires that goodwill be tested
for impairment at the reporting unit level, at least annually and more
frequently upon the occurrence of certain events, as provided in SFAS 142. We
use the market approach to assess the fair value of our assets and this value
is compared with the carrying value of those assets to test for impairment. The
total fair value of our assets is estimated by summing the fair value of our
equity, less our liabilities. Under this approach, if the estimated fair value
of our assets is greater than the carrying value of these assets, then there is
no goodwill impairment. If the estimated fair value of our assets is less than
the carrying value of these assets, then we allocate the reporting unit s
estimated fair value to its assets and liabilities as though the reporting unit
had just been acquired in a business combination. The impairment loss is the amount,
if any, by which the implied fair value of goodwill allocable to the reporting
unit is less than that reporting unit s goodwill carrying amount and would be
recorded in operation results during the period of such impairment.  

As required by SFAS 142,
we ceased amortizing goodwill effective November 1, 2002. Prior to November 1,
2002, we amortized goodwill over five years using the straight-line method.
Identifiable intangibles are currently amortized over five years in relation to
the JDO Genie (PTY) Ltd acquisition, six years in relation to the FastObjects, Inc.
acquisition, and seven years in relation to our acquisition of Poet, using the
straight-line method in each of these cases.  

Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts    

We make judgments as to
our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable and provide an allowance
for a portion of our accounts receivable if collection becomes doubtful. We
also make judgments about the creditworthiness of our customers, based on
ongoing credit evaluations and the aging profile of customers  accounts
receivable, as well as the current economic trends that might impact the level
of credit losses in the future. Historically, our allowance for doubtful
accounts has been sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. However, since
we cannot predict changes in the financial stability of our customers, we
cannot guarantee that our allowance will continue to be sufficient. If actual
credit losses exceed the allowance that we have established, it would increase
our operating expenses and reduce our reported net income or increase our net
loss. We evaluate and revise our bad debt allowance as part of our quarter end
process at each subsidiary and corporate level. Our management assigns a risk
factor and percentage of risk to each account receivable, the collection of
which is considered non-routine. We also assign a general reserve to all our
overdue accounts, excluding the non-routine items. Our allowance for doubtful
accounts amounted to 43,000, or 1% of gross accounts receivable, and $283,000,
or 5% of gross accounts receivable, at January 31, 2006 and January 31,
2005, respectively. The reduction in the allowance for doubtful accounts at January 31,
2006 as compared to January 31, 2005 is due to continued favorable
collection history during the past year and more current accounts receivable at
the end of three months ended January 31, 2006.  

Stock-Based Compensation Expense    

In December 2004,
FASB revised SFAS No. 123 and issued SFAS No.123(R),   Share-Based
Payment  , which requires companies to expense the estimated fair
value of employee stock options and similar awards. In March 2005, the SEC
staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107). SAB 107 creates
a framework that is premised on two overarching themes: (a) considerable
judgment will be required to successfully implement SFAS 123(R), specifically
when valuing employee stock options; and (b) reasonable individuals,
acting in good faith, may conclude differently on the fair value of employee
stock options. We have applied the principles of SAB 107 in conjunction with
our adoption of SFAS 123(R) in fiscal 2006.   

We have exercised
significant judgment to determine the variables used in calculation of the
stock-based compensation.   

We chose the closed-form
model of Black-Scholes-Merton as our option-pricing model to arrive at stock
options expense valuation. The Black-Scholes-Merton formula assumes that option
exercises occur at the end of an option s contractual term, and that expected
volatility, expected dividends, and risk-free interest rates are constant over
the options  term.   

The expected life of an
employee share option is the period of time that it is expected to be
outstanding. We use a historical model to arrive at the expected life of our
options, but we also take into consideration other factors that could possibly
impact the future expected life of the options. We determined that the
estimated expected life of the options granted under our Equity Incentive
Plan  is their maximum vesting period
(three years). We believe that none of the variables, such as, the vesting
period, expected volatility, blackout periods and employee demographics have
materially changed. Therefore, we have concluded that the historical expected
life represents fairly the expected future life of the options.   

20  

We have also assumed that
the expected life for stock options granted under our Directors Plan is 5.5
years even though the vesting period of options granted under this plan usually
does not exceed two years. This was due to the fact that the tenure of the
directors is usually longer and their option exercise habits are different
compared to our regular employees.  We
have used the   simplified      method  ,
discussed in SAB 107, to arrive at this calculation. Under the   simplified method,   the expected term of the options is equal
to vesting term plus original contractual term divided by two.  

We have further assumed a
six months expected life for our ESPP since our current stock price is
significantly higher than the offering price at the beginning of the ESPP
purchase period in the current enrollment plan.  

Volatility is a
measure of the amount by which a financial variable, such as share price, has
fluctuated (historical volatility) or is expected to fluctuate (expected
volatility) during the expected life of the options. The Black-Scholes-Merton
formula does not incorporate a range of expected volatilities over the option s
expected life. We use the historical volatility over the expected term of the
options to estimate the expected volatility. We calculate the standard
deviation of price changes for the periods of four years, three years, two
years, one and half years, one year and half a year. Then, we calculate
historical volatility for the past four, three, two, one and half, one, and
half-year periods. We, however, take into account other current information
available to determine that the expected volatility, derived based on
historical volatility, represents fairly the future volatility of our common
stock. At this time, we do not believe that there is any indication that future
volatility will differ from historical volatility.  

SFAS 123(R) requires
forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised if necessary in subsequent
periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We estimated that
approximately 58% of the unrecorded deferred share-based compensation amount
unrecognized for options as of January 31, 2006, would not be recognized
due to forfeiture. We have assumed that there is no forfeiture for ESPP
purchase rights during the current offering period since the current value of
our common stock exceeds the fair market value of our common stock at the
beginning of the offering period. We used the historical data to arrive at our
forfeiture rate. We, however, believe that the variables that could impact the   forfeiture rate   did not materially change compared to
historical data. Therefore, we believe that the historical forfeiture rate is a
fair presentation of future forfeiture rate at this time. We apply the   forfeiture rate   to the unvested portion of the option
valuation and perform a true up for the amount of the valuation to be recorded
if the   forfeiture rate   is different from the
one applied on prior periods.   

Restructuring    

We have streamlined and
restructured our operations from time to time in the past. Our restructuring
expenses and accruals require significant estimates by management using the
best information available at the time. These estimates include: facility exit
costs such as demise and lease termination costs; timing of future sublease
occupancy; sublease income based on expected future market conditions; and
other fees associated with our restructuring expenses, such as brokerage fees.   

We evaluate a number of
factors to determine the appropriateness and reasonableness of our
restructuring accruals on a regular basis. Such factors include, but are not
limited to, available market data, information from third party real estate
brokers, and ongoing negotiations in order to estimate the likelihood, timing,
lease terms and rates to be realized from potential subleases of restructured
facilities held under operating leases. In addition, our restructuring
estimates for facilities could be materially and adversely impacted by the
financial condition of sub-lessees and changes in their ability to meet their
financial obligations throughout the term of any sublease agreement. The impact
of these estimated costs and sublease proceeds are significant factors in
determining the appropriateness of our restructuring accrual balance presented
in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 31, 2006. Our actual expenses
may differ significantly from our estimates and as such, may require
adjustments to our restructuring accruals, which will impact our operating
results in future periods.  

During the third quarter
of fiscal 2005, we committed to and began implementing a restructuring program
to realign our resources and refocus on our Versant Object Database product. As
a result, we recorded total restructuring charges of $638,000 ($280,000 of
which is related to severance costs) for the fiscal year ended October 31,
2005. Versant also recorded total restructuring charges of approximately
$135,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and expects to book
approximately $70,000 additional expenses in the second quarter ending April 30,
2006.  These expenses consist of
restructuring severance payments for $46,000 and expenses related to disposal
of WebSphere assets for $24,000.  

The total quarterly cost
savings attributable to this restructuring plan, excluding the effect of the
VOA.NET spin-off, was approximately $400,000 for the quarter ended October 31,
2005, and is expected to increase to approximately $550,000 by the quarter
ended July 31, 2006. These cost savings are related to completed headcount
reduction and reduced discretionary spending.   

21  

Income
Taxes    

We estimate our income
taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate and account for income
taxes payable as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial
statements. This process involves estimating our actual current tax expense as
well as assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of
items, such as depreciation and amortization, for financial and tax reporting
purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities,
which are included in our consolidated balance sheet to the extent deemed realizable.
We then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered
from future taxable income and the extent we believe that recovery is not
likely. We establish a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets
to the extent such assets are not deemed to be realizable. If we establish a
valuation allowance or increase it in a given period, then we must increase the
tax provision in our statement of operations.  

Significant management
judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our
deferred tax assets and liabilities, and any valuation allowance recorded
against our net deferred tax assets. Due to uncertainties related to our
ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, we have established full valuation
allowances at October 31, 2005 and January 31, 2006 for our deferred
tax assets.  

New
Accounting Pronouncements    

In May 2005, the
FASB issued SFAS 154,   Accounting Changes and
Error Corrections  . This new standard replaces APB Opinion 20,   Accounting Changes   and SFAS 3,   Reporting
Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements  . Among other
changes, SFAS 154 requires that a voluntary change in accounting principle be
applied retrospectively with all prior period financial statements presented to
reflect the new accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to do so. SFAS
154 also provides that a change in method of depreciating or amortizing a
long-lived non-financial asset be accounted for as a change in estimate
(prospectively) that was effected by a change in accounting principle, and that
corrections of previously issued financial statements should be termed a   restatement  . The new standard is effective for accounting
changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2005. Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on
the Company s financial position or results of operations.   

In February 2006,
the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FSP FAS 123(R)-4, which addresses
the classification of options and similar instruments issued as employee
compensation that allow for cash settlement upon occurrence of a contingent
event. The guidance on this FSP shall be applied upon initial adoption of SFAS
123(R). Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on
the Company s financial position or results of operations.         

    Results
of Operations    

The following table sets
forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage relationship of certain items
from our condensed consolidated statement of operations to total revenues:  

22  

Revenues    

The following table summarizes software license, maintenance and
professional services revenues for the periods indicated (in thousands, except
percentages):  

Total Revenues.   Total revenues
are comprised of license fees, maintenance, training, consulting, technical and
other support services. Fluctuations in total revenues can be attributed to
changes in product and customer mix, general trends in information technology
spending, as well as to changes in geographic mix and the corresponding impact
of changes in foreign exchange rates. Further, product life cycles impact
revenues periodically as old contracts end and new products are released. 

Our total revenues declined $656,000 (or 12%) for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 from the corresponding period in fiscal 2005. This decline
included unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations of $49,000.  

One customer accounted for 15% and 34% of our total revenues for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

23  

Like many other enterprise software companies, we do not operate with a
significant backlog of orders. Information Technology spending in general has
been considerably depressed over the recent past, particularly in the U.S.,
which makes it even more difficult for us to forecast our revenues.  

The inherently unpredictable business cycle of an enterprise software
company and the cautious macro-economic environment make discernment of continued
and meaningful business trends more difficult. However, with respect to license
revenues, we are still experiencing extremely cautious behaviors in IT
purchasing in North America. We nevertheless are expecting slightly higher
license revenues for the remainder of fiscal 2006 in this region, and also
expect our international software revenues to be slightly higher for the
remainder of fiscal 2006  .   We expect our
maintenance revenues to remain at essentially the same level for the remainder
of fiscal 2006. We expect our consulting revenues to grow modestly for the
remainder of fiscal year 2006 due to the existence of significant recent
consulting agreements with two European customers.  

International Revenues  . The
following table summarizes our revenues by geographic area for the periods
indicated (in thousands, except percentages): 

International revenues represented approximately 71% of our total
revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2006, as compared to 73% for
the comparable period in 2005. The high percentage of international revenues
for both periods is mainly due to the following:  

Stronger demand for our
products in Europe. 

             Cautious purchasing
behavior and lack of execution of any major contract in the U.S. 

             Change of sales personnel
and management in our U.S. operations. 

             Discontinuation of U.S.
WebSphere consulting practice. 

             Merging of Poet s European
operations and integrating its customer base. 

Revenues by Industry.   The
following table summarizes our revenues by industry for the periods indicated
(in thousands, except percentages): 

Our products are used by the technology sector mainly for demand
consensus forecasts, collaborative planning and requirements definition. Our
revenues in this sector increased $990,000 (or 223%) to $1.4 million during the
three months ended January 31, 2006, compared to $444,000 for the corresponding
period in fiscal 2005. This increase was mainly due to revenues from several  

24  

European technology customers. Our European operation was able to close
some of the deals related to this sector, which were delayed from the previous
quarters.  

We also market our products to the telecommunications sector in such
strategic distributed applications as network modeling and management, fault
diagnosis, fraud prevention, service activation and assurance, and customer
billing. Our revenues from the telecommunications sector declined $1.5 million
(or 55%) to $1.3 million during the three months ended January 31, 2006,
compared to $2.8 million for the corresponding period of 2005. This decline was
due to receipt of a significant follow on order from a European
telecommunications company in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. We did not have
a comparable sale to any of our customers in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.  

Our revenues from the defense sector are cyclical since defense
contracts usually have longer negotiation and sign off periods. The increase in
revenues in this sector during this quarter was mainly due several contracts
that their closings were delayed from the previous quarter.  

Revenues by Category.    The following tables summarizes our revenues
by category for the periods indicated (in thousands, except ercentages): 

License.    License revenues
were $2.5 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006, a decline of 28%
from $3.5 million reported for the comparable period in 2005.  The higher license revenues during the three
months ended January 31, 2005 was mainly due to a significant follow-on order
from a European telecommunications company. We did not have a comparable order
during the three months ended January 31, 2006. 

Maintenance  .  Maintenance revenues were $1.6 million for
the three months ended January 31, 2006, which was consistent with the
maintenance revenues reported for the comparable period in 2005.  The maintenance revenues remained relatively
unchanged due to stable retention rate in our customer base. 

Professional Services  .      Professional
services revenues were $480,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2006, an
increase of 142% from $198,000 reported for the comparable period in fiscal
2005. This increase was mainly due to revenues associated with a major
percentage-of-completion consulting agreement with a European customer in the
first quarter of fiscal 2006. 

Cost of Revenues    

Total Cost of Revenues.    Total cost of revenues was
$900,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2006, a decline of $48,000 (or
5%) from total cost of revenues of $948,000 reported for the comparable period
in 2005. This decline included favorable foreign currency fluctuations of
approximately $15,000. 

The following table summarizes the cost of revenue for the periods
indicated (in thousands, except percentages):  

25  

License.   Cost of license revenues
consists primarily of royalties and cost of third party products (which we
resell to our customers), product media and packaging costs. Cost of license
revenues was $105,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2006 (or 4% of
license revenues) as compared to $56,000 (or 2% of license revenues) for the
corresponding period in 2005. 

The increase of $49,000 in absolute dollars for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 over the comparable period in 2005, was primarily due to an
increase in royalties and cost of third party products in the U.S. for $30,000
and obsolescence of product documentation and media for $17,000 in Versant
Germany.  

Amortization of Intangible Assets.  
Amortization of intangible assets consists of the amortization of intangible
assets acquired in our 2004 acquisitions of Poet Holdings, Inc., FastObjects,
Inc. and JDO Genie technology. Amortization of intangible assets was $79,000
for the three months ended January 31, 2006 (or 3% of license revenues) as
compared to  $195,000 (or 6% of licensed
revenues) for the corresponding period in 2005. 

The $116,000 decline in absolute dollars for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 from the comparable period in 2005, was due to several
write-offs of our intangible assets for $2.6 million, which occurred in fiscal
2005.  

We expect to incur approximately $79,000 per quarter for amortization
of intangible assets quarterly in fiscal 2006.  

Maintenance.   Cost of maintenance
revenues consists primarily of customer support personnel and related expenses,
including payroll, employee benefits and allocated overhead. Cost of
maintenance revenues was $383,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2006
(or 23% of maintenance revenues) compared to $418,000 (or 26% of maintenance
revenues) for the corresponding period in fiscal 2005. The decline in absolute
dollars of $35,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2006, was mainly due
to headcount reduction of three employees (resulting in a reduction of $50,000
in our U.S. and U.K. operations) due to fiscal 2005 restructuring plan.  This decline, however, includes some cost of
maintenance related to Vanatec. Vanatec s cost of maintenance for the three
months ended January 31, 2006 was $13,000. 

Professional Services.   Cost of
professional services consists of salaries, bonuses, third party consulting
fees and other costs associated with supporting our professional services
organization. Cost of professional services revenues was $333,000 for the three
months ended January 31, 2006 (or 70% of professional services revenues)
compared to $279,000 (or 141% for the professional services revenue) for the
three months ended January 31, 2005. The increase in absolute dollars was
mainly attributable to a major percentage-of-completion consulting project with
a European customer during the three months ended January 31, 2006. The
negative margin in professional services for the three months ended January 31,
2005 was due to under-utilization of one full-time employee dedicated to
professional services in that quarter. 

In Europe, there is a statutory one-year warranty requirement for all
our products and services. Prior to our merger with Poet in March 2004, Poet
Holdings, Inc. provided for a reserve for such warranties that could be in
excess of its regular maintenance programs. 
We continued maintaining this reserve for $8,000 and $10,000 related to
the FastObjects products in Europe as of January 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Pursuant to a major consulting agreement with a European company,
which is accounted for on a percentage of completion basis, we also maintained
an additional warranty reserve of $57,000 for the three months ended January
31, 2006.  

26  

Operating Expenses    

Total Operating Expenses.    Total operating expenses
were $3.0 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006, a decline of 27%
from $4.1 million reported for the comparable period in 2005. This decline
included favorable foreign currency exchange fluctuations of $14,000. 

The following table summarizes the operating expense for these periods
(in thousands, except percentages):  

Sales and Marketing.   Sales and
marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and related expenses; commissions
earned by sales personnel, trade shows, travel and other marketing
communication costs, such as advertising and other marketing programs. Sales
and marketing expenses were $946,000 for the three months ended January 31,
2005 (or 20% of revenues) and $1.7 million (or 33% of revenues) for the
comparable period in 2005. The $780,000 decline in absolute dollar for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 was mainly due to headcount reductions in
the U.S. from eleven to five employees (resulting in a reduction of $241,000)
and in Europe from eleven to six employees (resulting in a reduction of
$283,000). Additionally, the sales and marketing programs also declined in both
U.S. and Europe by approximately $224,000. 
Headcount reductions were the result of our fiscal 2005 restructuring
activities to better align our costs with current revenue levels. These
declines included some sales and marketing expenditures related to Vanatec.
Vanatec s sales and marketing expenditures for the three months ended January
31, 2006 was $106,000. 

We expect sales and marketing expenses to be slightly higher for the
remainder of fiscal 2006 due to additional headcount and will continue to
represent a considerable percentage of our total revenues in the future.  

Research and Development.   Research
and development expenses consist primarily of personnel and related expenses,
including payroll and employee benefits expenses for facilities and payments
made to outside software development contractors. Research and development
expenses were $869,000 (or 19% of revenues) for the three months ended January
31, 2006 and $1.1 million (or 20% of revenues) for the comparable period in
2005. The $210,000 decline in absolute dollars was mainly due to headcount
reductions in the U.S. from eight to four employees (resulting in a reduction
of $253,000) and in Europe from eight to six employees (resulting in a
reduction of $52,000) as a result of fiscal 2005 restructuring activities.
These declines were partially offset by a headcount increase in India from 29
to 35 employees (resulting to an increase by approximately $36,000).  These declines also included some research
and development expenditures related to Vanatec. Vanatec s research and
development expenditures for the three months ended January 31, 2006 were
$75,000. 

We anticipate that we will continue to invest significant resources in
research and development activities to develop new products, advance the
technology of our existing products and develop new business opportunities. We
expect research and development expenditures to remain at  the current levels during the remainder of
fiscal 2006.  

General and Administrative.    General and administrative
expenses consist primarily of personnel and related expenses and general
operating expenses. General and administrative expenses were $1.1 million (or
23% of revenues) for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and $1.3 million
(or 25% of revenues) for the comparable period in 2005. The $259,000 decline in
absolute dollars was mainly due to headcount reductions in the U.S. from eleven
to seven employees (resulting in a reduction of $165,000) and in Europe from
eight to seven employees (resulting in a reduction of $46,000) due to our
fiscal 2005 restructuring activities. Additionally, legal expenses declined by
$50,000 in response to fewer complex regulatory issues during quarter. Vanatec s
general and administrative expenses offset these declines by approximately
$25,000. 

We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase modestly
towards the end of fiscal year 2006 if we are required to comply with Section
404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the end of fiscal 2007.  

27  

Outside Shareholders  Loss from VIE    

During the three months ended July 31, 2005, as part of a restructuring
plan, we spun-off the assets of our VOA.Net product to Vanatec, and we
committed to the capital contribution of an additional 212,500 euros (or
$260,000), which we contributed on November 3, 2005. Vanatec itself has
projected cash disbursements of approximately $225,000 for the next three
months ending April 30, 2006. Versant determined that equity at risk in
Vanatec is not sufficient to permit it to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support; therefore, Versant has determined
that Vanatec is a variable interest entity in accordance with FIN 
46(R),   Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  
(As Amended).  

Vanatec s results have been included in our consolidated financial
statements for the three month periods ended July 31, 2005, October 31,
2005 and January 31, 2006, and will be included for any additional periods in
which the criteria of FIN 46(R) for consolidation are met. During the three
months ended January 31, 2006, we absorbed our share of Vanatec s losses up to
the point that the variable interest liability was reduced to zero; and
subsequent to that we absorbed 100% of the losses that Vanatec has incurred for
an additional amount of $35,000. We will continue to absorb 100% of the losses
of Vanatec in the future for so long as Vanatec has a negative equity on its
balance sheet and as long as Versant is required to consolidate the operating
results of Vanatec under FIN 46(R).  

Other Income, Net    

Other income, net consists primarily of interest income net of interest
expense, miscellaneous refunds and foreign exchange rate gains and losses.
Other income, net was $12,000 (or 0.2% of revenues) for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 and $81,000 (or 2% of revenues) for the comparable period in
2005. The decrease in absolute dollars of $69,000 was largely due to foreign
exchange rate fluctuations.  

The following table summarizes the other income, net for the periods
indicated (in thousands, except percentages):  

Provision for
Income Taxes    

We incurred foreign withholding tax and state franchise tax of
approximately $13,000 and $45,000 in the three months ended January 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively. Additionally, we accrued $70,000 for income taxes for
our German operations since there is a statutory limitation on net operating
loss utilization per fiscal year. We expect to exceed this limit in fiscal
2006.  

We record a valuation allowance to reduce tax assets to an amount for
which realization is more likely than not. The Company has recorded a valuation
allowance for all of its deferred tax assets, except to the extent of deferred
tax liabilities, as we are presently unable to conclude that it is more likely
than not that existing net deferred tax assets will be realized.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES   

We funded our business from cash generated by our operations during the
three months periods ended January 31, 2006 and 2005.  As of January 31, 2006, we had cash and cash
equivalents of $3.9 million, an increase of $362,000 over the $3.6 million of
cash and cash equivalents we held at January 31, 2005. As of January 31, 2006,
$3.2 million of our cash and cash equivalents were held in foreign financial
institutions. Currently, there are no legal restrictions or tax penalties if
the Company decides to repatriate this cash.  

The following table summarizes our cash balances held in foreign
currencies and their equivalent U.S. dollar amounts for the periods indicated
(in thousands):  

28  

We transact business in various foreign currencies and, accordingly, we
are subject to exposure from adverse movements in foreign currency exchange
rates.  To date, the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates
on our net operating results has not been significant. Operating expenses
incurred by the Company s foreign subsidiaries are denominated primarily in
local currencies. We currently do not use financial instruments to hedge
these operating expenses. We intend to assess the need to utilize
financial instruments to hedge currency exposures on an ongoing basis. In
addition, a substantial portion of our cash balances is held in foreign
financial institutions and is subject to exposure from adverse movements in
foreign currency exchange rates. We do not use derivative financial instruments
for speculative trading purposes.  

Our cash equivalents primarily consist of money market accounts;
accordingly, our interest rate risk is not considered significant.  

Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our
customers following the purchase of our products and services. Our primary uses
of cash in operating activities are from personnel related expenditures and
facilities costs.  

We believe that with our current cost structure, after the
restructuring and disposition of our WebSphere business, we can operate on a
cash flow positive or breakeven position for the remainder of fiscal 2006.  

Operating
Activities    

The following table aggregates certain line items from the cash flow
statement to present the key items affecting our operating activities for the
periods indicated (in thousands):  

We have financed our operations and met our capital expenditure
requirements through cash flows from operations, and increased our cash flows
from operations of $137,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2006.  This increase is attributed mainly due to
higher income and an increase in deferred revenue.  

Non-cash adjustments were $63,000 for the three months ended January
31, 2006 compared to $219,000 for the corresponding period in 2005 due to $2.6
million write off during the third quarter of 2005. Non-cash adjustments may
increase or decrease in the future and, as a result, positively or negatively
impact our future operating results, but they will not have a direct impact on
our cash flows.  

29  

Changes in our assets and liabilities result from the timing of payments
to our vendors for accounts payable and the timing of payments from our
customers for accounts receivables, which will both impact our operating cash
flows in the future. We typically pay our vendors and service providers in
accordance with their invoice terms and conditions. The timing of cash payments
in future periods will be impacted by the nature of accounts payable
arrangements and management s assessment of our cash inflows.  

We measure the effectiveness of our collection efforts by an analysis of
our accounts receivable and our days sales outstanding (DSO). We calculate DSO
by taking the ending accounts receivable balances (net of bad debt allowance)
divided by the average daily sales amount. Average daily sales amount is
calculated by dividing the total quarterly revenue recognized net of changes in
deferred revenues divided by 91.25 days. Collection of accounts receivable and
related DSO could fluctuate in the future periods, due to timing and amount of
our revenues and the effectiveness of our collection efforts. Our DSO was 51
days and 70 days for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and
January 31, 2005, respectively.  We have included revenue of our
WebSphere practice for $1.2 million, which we classified as discontinued operations,
in the calculation of our DSO since the accounts receivable associated with
this discontinued operation was reflected in our balance sheet as of January
31, 2006 and will not be transferred as part of WebSphere transaction.  

The impact of the change in current assets and liabilities was $709,000
for the three months ended January 31, 2006 compared to $350,000 for the
corresponding period in 2005. The analysis of this change is as follows:  

an
increase in deferred revenues of $722,000 was as a result of an increase of
$800,000 in deferred revenues from our European region, which was mainly due to
the execution of several maintenance contracts for $620,000 and deferral of a
percentage of completion contract for $180,000 during the first quarter of
fiscal 2006, and offset by an approximately $75,000 decline in deferred
revenues from our U.S. region due to a lower rate of renewal in our maintenance
contracts. 

reductions
in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities of $452,000 were primarily
due to U.S. facility-related payments made against our restructuring accrual
for $168,000,  a reduction of
approximately $190,000 in accrued legal expenses due to lower legal fees in our
U.S. region, and a reduction of approximately $70,000 in commission and related
accruals due to sales headcount reduction. 

an
increase in accounts receivable of $1.1 million was mainly the result of an
increase of $1.6 million in accounts receivable in our European region due to
higher revenues from that region during the first quarter of fiscal 2006;
offset by a decline of $494,000 in accounts receivables in our U.S region due
to lower DSO and revenues. 

Investing
Activities    

The primary uses of our cash in investing activities are typically for
the purchases of property and equipment and acquired technology.  

For the three months ended January 31, 2006, net cash used in investing
activities was approximately $59,000, comprised of the following:  

cash
used in purchases of property and equipment of $10,000. We anticipate a similar
level of activities for the purchases of property and equipment for the
remainder of fiscal 2006, and 

$49,000
related to the final investment installment for the 19.6% interest in Vanatec,
a privately held company to whom we spun-out our VOA.Net assets. 

Financing
Activities    

Our main source of cash from financing activities is proceeds from sale
of common stock under our employee stock option and stock purchase plans and,
in the periods that we had a receivable line of credit in place, periodic
draw-downs on the credit line that were typically repaid within a month.  

For the three months ended January 31, 2006, net cash used in financing
activities was approximately $28,000, comprised of the following:  

cash
inflows of $16,000 due to proceeds from the sale of common stock under our
stock purchase 

30  

plans, and  

cash
outflows of $50,000 due to repayment of borrowing under the line of credit
during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. On June 21, 2005, Versant and a bank
entered into a Loan and Security Agreement, a Streamline Facility Agreement and
an Intellectual Property Security Agreement (collectively, the  Loan Agreements ).
Under the terms of these Loan Agreements, we may borrow up to a maximum of $3.0
million from the bank at any one time under a revolving secured accounts receivable-based
line of credit.  This line of credit
permits Versant to obtain short-term loan advances from the bank equal to 80%
of the face amount of specific eligible accounts receivable of Versant.  The interest rate on each advance will be
either 4.0% or 4.5% above the bank s prime rate. 

Our future liquidity and capital resources could be impacted by the
exercise of outstanding common stock options and the cash proceeds we receive
upon exercise of these securities. Further, we have approximately 261,000
shares available to issue under our current equity incentive and directors
plans. The timing of the issuance, the duration of their vesting provision and
the grant price will all impact the timing of any proceeds. Accordingly, we
cannot estimate the amount of such proceeds at this time.  

Commitments and
Contingencies    

Our principal commitments as of January 31, 2006 consist of obligations
under operating leases for facilities, equipments and contract commitments.  

We have reflected approximately $1.2 million of our commitments on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2006. Our annual minimum
commitments as of January 31, 2006 under non-cancelable operating leases, not
recorded on the January 31, 2006 balance sheet, are as follows (in thousands):  

We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash to be
generated from operations will be sufficient to finance our operations during
the remainder of fiscal 2006. However, if we fail to generate adequate cash
flow from operations in the future, due to an unexpected decline in our
revenues, or due to a sustained increase in cash expenditures in excess of the
revenues generated; then our cash balances may not be sufficient to fund our
continuing operations without obtaining additional debt or equity financing.
Additional cash may also be needed to acquire or invest in complementary
businesses or products or to obtain the right to use complementary
technologies, and we expect that, in the event of such an acquisition or
investment, if significant, it will be necessary for us to seek additional debt
or equity financing.  

Our obligations to the financial institution under the Loan Agreements
are secured by a first security interest in all of our assets, including our
equipment, cash and intellectual property. The credit facility provided by the
Loan Agreements will expire by June 21, 2007.  

If we are required to obtain additional financing for our working
capital, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us
on reasonable financial or other terms, or at all. The prices at which new
investors might be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the
market value or the trading price of our common stock. The sale of additional
equity or  

31  

convertible debt securities could also result in dilution to our
shareholders, which could be substantial and may involve the issuance of
preferred securities that would have liquidation preferences that entitle
holders of the preferred securities to receive certain amounts before holders
of our common stock in connection with an acquisition or business combination involving
Versant or a liquidation of Versant. New investors may also seek agreements
giving them additional voting control or seats on our board of directors.  

Further, if our common stock were ever delisted from trading on the
NASDAQ Capital Market, our ability to obtain financing through sales of our
stock would be materially impaired. Even if we were able to obtain additional
debt or equity financing, the terms of any such financing might significantly
restrict our business activities and in some circumstances, might require us to
obtain the approval of our shareholders, which could delay or prevent
consummation of the financing transaction.  

Vanatec results have been
included in our consolidated financial statements for the three month periods
ended July 31, 2005, October 31, 2005 and January 31, 2006, and will be
included for any additional periods in which the criteria of FIN 46(R) for
consolidation are met. We reflected the cash balance of Vanatec for $7,000 as
of January 31, 2006 in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2006.  

In order to be able to comply with the NASDAQ Capital Market s
continued listing requirements regarding the minimum bid price of our common
stock, at our annual meeting of shareholders held on August 22, 2005, our shareholders
approved an amendment of our articles of incorporation to effect a 1-for-10
reverse split of our outstanding Common Stock, and to reduce the number of
authorized shares of our Common Stock, Series A Preferred Stock and
undesignated Preferred Stock in proportion to the ratio of the reverse split.  

Subsequent to the reverse split, on September 8, 2005, we received
notice from NASDAQ market that we regained compliance with Marketplace Rule.  

Risk Factors    

This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking
statements regarding the Company that involve risks and uncertainties,
including, but not limited to, those set forth below, that could cause our
actual results of operations to differ materially from those contemplated in
the forward-looking statements. The matters set forth below and in Item 1A of
this report should be carefully considered when evaluating our business and
prospects.   

Risks Related to Our Business    

We are dependent on a limited number of products, especially Versant
Object Database   . Nearly all of our license revenues to
date have been derived from our Versant Object Database product and its
predecessors. Consequently, if our ability to generate revenues from Versant
Object Database were negatively impacted, our business, cash flows and results
of operations would be materially adversely affected. Many factors could
negatively impact our ability to generate revenues from Versant Object
Database, including without limitation softness in the North American market
for enterprise software, changes in the European market for enterprise
software, slowness in the general economy or in key industries we serve, such
as the technology, telecommunications and defense industries, the success of
competitive products of other vendors, reduction in the prices we can obtain
for our products due to competitive factors, the adoption of new technologies
or standards that make our products technologically obsolete or customer
reluctance to invest in object-oriented technologies. Although we have taken
steps to diversify our product line through our acquisition of Poet and its
FastObjects data management product, we still expect that sales of Versant
Object Database will continue to be critical to our revenues for the
foreseeable future. Accordingly, any significant reduction in revenue levels
from our Versant Object Database product can be expected to have a material
negative impact on our business and results of operation. 

Our revenue levels are not predictable.    Our
revenues have fluctuated dramatically on a quarterly basis, and we expect this
trend to continue. For example, in fiscal 2005 our quarterly revenues
fluctuated from a high of $5.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 to a
low of $3.2 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2005. In the first quarter
of 2006 our revenue was $4.6 million. These quarterly fluctuations result from
a number of factors, including the following items: 

delays
by our customers (including customers who are resellers) in signing
revenue-bearing contracts that were expected to be entered into in a particular
fiscal quarter and the timing of any significant sales; 

32  

the
status of the market for enterprise software and general macroeconomic factors
that impact information technology, or  IT , capital purchasing decisions; 

             the
lengthy sales cycle associated with our products; 

             customer
and market perceptions of the value and currency of object-oriented software
technology; 

             uncertainty
regarding the timing and scope of customer deployment schedules of applications
based on Versant Object Database where revenues are contingent upon the
customer s deployment of our product; 

             failure
by us to timely develop and launch successful new products; 

             fluctuations
in domestic and foreign demand for our products and services, particularly in
the telecommunications, technology, defense markets; 

             the
impact of new product introductions, both by us and by our competitors; 

             our
unwillingness to lower prices significantly to meet prices set by our
competitors or reductions of our prices to meet competition; 

             the
effect of publications of opinions about us and our competitors and their
products; 

             customer
deferrals of orders in anticipation of product enhancements or new product
offerings by us or our competitors; 

             potential
customers  unwillingness to invest in our products given our size and perceived
financial instability. 

We may not be able to manage costs effectively given the
unpredictability of our revenues.    We expect to continue
to maintain a relatively high percentage of fixed expenses, and we might be
unable to reduce certain fixed expenses to accommodate any revenue reductions.
If forecast revenue does not materialize, then our business, financial condition
and results of operations will be materially harmed. 

Our customer concentration increases the potential volatility of our
operating results.    A significant portion of our total
revenues has been, and we believe will continue to be, derived from a limited
number of orders placed by large organizations. For example, one customer
contributed 15% and 34% of our total revenues for the first quarter of fiscal
2006 and 2005, respectively. The timing of large orders and of their
fulfillment has caused, and in the future is likely to cause, material
fluctuations in our operating results, particularly on a quarterly basis. In
addition, our major customers tend to change from year to year. The loss of any
one or more of our major customers, or our inability to replace a customer
making declining purchases with a new customer of comparable significance,
could each have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Our future revenues are substantially dependent upon our installed
customers renewing maintenance agreements for our products and licensing or
upgrading additional Versant products; our future professional services and
maintenance revenues are dependent on future sales of our software
products.     We
depend on our installed customer base for future revenues from maintenance
renewal fees, licenses of additional products or upgrades of existing products.
If our customers do not purchase additional products, upgrade existing products
or renew their maintenance agreements, this could materially adversely affect our
business and future quarterly and annual operating results. The terms of our
standard license arrangements provide for a one-time license fee and a
prepayment of one year of software maintenance and support fees. Our
maintenance agreements are renewable annually at the option of the customer and
there are no minimum payment obligations or obligations to license additional
software. Therefore, our current customers may not necessarily generate
significant maintenance revenues in future periods if they choose not to renew
our maintenance services. In addition, our customers may choose not to purchase
additional products, upgrades or professional services. Our professional
services and maintenance revenues are also dependent upon the continued use of
our products by our installed customer base. Consequently, any downturn in our
software license revenues would likely have a corresponding negative impact on
the growth of our professional service revenues. 

We have limited working capital and may experience difficulty in
obtaining needed funding, which may limit our ability to effectively pursue our
business strategies.    At January 31, 2006, we had
approximately $3.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and working capital of
approximately $1.5 million. To date, we have not achieved profitability or
positive cash flow on a sustained basis. In response to this situation, in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 and the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we
restructured our business operations to reduce our operating expenses by
streamlining our operating processes. These restructuring efforts continued
into the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 and will be completed in fiscal 2006.
Although with such restructuring, we believe that our current cash, cash
equivalents, and any net cash provided by operations will be sufficient to meet
our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for the
next twelve months, we may choose to make further cost reductions and it is
possible that events may occur that could render our current working capital
reserves insufficient. Because our revenues are unpredictable and a significant
portion of our expenses is fixed (and more difficult to reduce further given
previous cost reductions), a reduction in our projected revenues or
unanticipated requirements for cash outlays could deplete our limited financial
resources and working capital. Impairment of our working capital would require
us to make expense reductions and/or to raise funds through borrowing or debt
or equity financing. There can be no assurance that any equity or debt funding
will be 

33  

available to us on favorable terms, if at all. If we cannot secure
adequate financing sources when required, then we would need to further reduce
our operating expenses, which would restrict our ability to pursue our business
objectives.  

Reduced demand for our products and services may prevent us from
achieving targeted revenues and profitability.    Our
revenues and our ability to achieve and sustain profitability depend on the
overall demand for the software products and services we offer. Reduced demand
for our product line may result from competition offered by alternative
technologies or negative customer perception of our object-oriented technology.
General economic conditions can also have a significant adverse effect on our
revenues and results of operations. The demand for IT market infrastructure,
the market sector that we serve, has not fully recovered since the economic
slow down of 2000s. We cannot predict the impact of these or similar events in
the future, or of any related or unrelated military action, on our customers or
our business. We believe that, in light of these concerns, some businesses may
continue to curtail or eliminate capital spending on information technology. In
addition, we have experienced continued hesitancy on the part of our existing
and potential customers to commit to new products or services from us,
particularly in our North American markets. If U.S. or global economic
conditions takes another down turn, this revenue impact may worsen as well and
have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial
condition. 

We rely for revenues on the technology, telecommunications, defense industries,
and these industries are characterized by complexity, intense competition and
changes in purchasing cycles.    Historically, we have been
highly dependent upon the telecommunications industry and, more recently, we
are becoming increasingly dependent upon the technology, telecommunications and
defense industries for sales of Versant Object Database. Our success in these
areas is dependent, to a large extent, on general economic conditions affecting
these industries, our ability to compete with alternative technology providers,
our ability to develop products that can successfully operate in different
computing environments and whether our customers and potential customers
believe we have the expertise and financial stability necessary to provide effective
solutions in these markets on an ongoing basis. If these conditions, among
others, are not satisfied, we may not be successful in generating additional
opportunities in these markets. Currently, companies in these markets are
hesitant to commit to additional technology expenditures and the
telecommunications industry has in particular experienced significant economic
difficulties and consolidation trends in recent years which could jeopardize
our ability to continue to derive revenues from customers in that industry. The
technology industry has also generally experienced volatility in recent years
that may adversely affect demand for our products and services from that
industry and the defense industry may experience new cycles of lower available
technology budgets due to high levels of U.S. defense spending for operations
in Iraq and Afghanistan. In addition, the types of applications and commercial
products for the technology, telecommunications and defense markets are
continuing to develop and are rapidly changing, and these markets are
characterized by an increasing number of new entrants whose products may
compete with ours. As a result, we cannot predict the future growth of (or
whether there will be future growth in) these markets, and demand for
object-oriented databases applications in these markets may not develop or be
sustainable. We also may not be successful in attaining a significant share of
these markets due to competition and other factors, such as our limited working
capital. Moreover, potential customers in these markets generally develop
sophisticated and complex applications that require substantial consulting
expertise to implement and optimize. There can be no assurance that we can hire
and retain adequate personnel for this practice. 

We depend increasingly on our international operations for our revenues
as North American revenues have declined.    A large and
increasing portion of our revenues is derived from customers located outside
North America, and it is critical for us to maintain our international
revenues. Following our acquisition of Poet, which had a strong European
presence, international revenues have represented a larger percentage of our
total revenues than it had historically and consequently we must conduct our
operations internationally and maintain a significant presence in international
markets. For the first quarter of fiscal 2006, our international revenues
derived from customers outside North America made up approximately 71% of our
total revenues, compared to 73% for the comparable period in fiscal 2005. North
American revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 were $1.3 million, down
from North American revenues of $1.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal
2005. We believe that these reductions in our North American revenues are due
largely to cautious purchasing behavior in the region for the past few years as
well as the impact of changes in our sales management and organization with new
strategies in the North America region. During that period European revenues
grew significantly, primarily due to our merger with Poet, although revenues
from our core data management products also grew in this region. It is possible
that the North America revenues will continue to remain depressed for the
remainder of fiscal 2006, making the international revenues even more critical
to our operations and cash flows. 

In fiscal 2002, we transitioned some of our international sales efforts
to a business model that employs local distributors. While use of local
distributors reduces certain sales and operating expenses, it also makes our
business more dependent on the skills and efforts of third parties and can
decrease our profit margins.  

34  

Our international operations are subject to a number of unique risks in
addition to the risks faced by our domestic operations. These risks include,
but are not limited to the following items:  

longer
receivable collection periods; 

           adverse
changes in regulatory requirements; 

           dependence
on independent resellers; 

           fluctuations
in foreign exchange rates; 

           compliance
with multiple and conflicting regulations and technology standards in different
jurisdictions; 

           import
and export restrictions, tariffs and other regulatory restrictions; 

           difficulties
in, and increased costs of, staffing and managing foreign operations; 

           potentially
adverse tax consequences arising from international operations and
inter-company transactions; 

           the
burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, including more protective
employment laws in Germany; 

           the
impact of business cycles, economic and political instability and potential
hostilities outside the United States; and 

           limited
ability to enforce agreements, intellectual property rights and other rights in
some foreign countries. 

In addition, in light of increasing global security
and terrorism, there may be additional risks of disruption to our international
sales activities. Any prolonged disruption in the markets in which we derive
significant revenues may potentially have a material adverse impact on our
revenues and results of operations.  

In order to be successful, Versant must attract, retain and motivate
key employees and failure to do so could seriously harm the company.   
In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate our executives
and other key employees, including those in managerial, sales and technical
positions. We reduced our workforce in connection with a restructuring of our
operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 and the third quarter of fiscal
2005. These and other circumstances may adversely affect our ability to attract
and retain key management, sales and technical personnel who are critical to
the success of our operations and we experienced some continued losses in our
workforce in fiscal 2005. We must continue to motivate employees and keep them
focused on the achievement of our strategies and goals. In addition, as a
result of our merger with Poet in March of 2004, we now employ a sizable German
workforce subject to German law, which generally provides greater financial
protection to terminated employees than does United States law. Consequently,
failure to retain our German employees may cause us to incur significant
severance costs, which could adversely affect our operating results and
financial condition. 

Our personnel, management team and operations are located in different
countries and as a result, we may experience difficulty in coordinating our
activities and successfully implementing Company goals.   
Following our 2004 merger with Poet, we acquired significant operations and
personnel in Europe, and now have approximately 29 employees based in Europe
whose activities must be well coordinated with those of our U.S. workforce and
other employees. In addition, we also perform a significant amount of
engineering work in India through our wholly owned subsidiary located in Pune,
India. We currently employ about 35 employees in India, which represents
approximately 36% of our total workforce. As a result of the Poet merger and
recent management changes, our management team resides in both our U.S.
headquarters in Fremont, California and our office in Hamburg, Germany and our
Chief Executive Officer resides in Hamburg, Germany. The fairly large geographic
dispersion of our management team and our workforce may make it more difficult
for us to successfully manage our long-term objectives, coordinate activity
across the company, and integrate our operations and business plans. 

Our products have a lengthy sales cycle.    The
sales cycle for our Versant Object Database and FastObjects products varies
substantially from customer to customer, and often exceeds nine months and can
sometimes extend to a year or more, especially for sales to defense sector customers.
Due in part to the strategic nature of our products and the expenditures
associated with their purchase, potential customers are typically cautious in
making decisions to acquire our products. Influencing our customers  decision
to license our products generally requires us to provide a significant level of
education to prospective customers regarding the uses and benefits of our
products, and we frequently commit to provide that education without any charge
or reimbursement. Generally, pre-sales support efforts, such as assistance in
performing benchmarking and application prototype development, are also
conducted with no charge to customers. Because of the lengthy sales cycle for
our products and the relatively large average dollar size of individual
licenses, a lost or delayed sales transaction could potentially have a
significant impact on our operating results for a particular fiscal period. 

We are subject to litigation and the risk of future litigation.   
We and certain of our present and former officers and directors were named as
defendants in four class action lawsuits filed in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of California in 1998. The complaint in those
suits alleged violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, and Securities and Exchange Commission Rule
10b-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act, in connection with 

35  

public statements about our financial performance. Although this case
was later dismissed, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to
similar litigation in the future. In addition, we recently settled a litigation
that commenced in the last quarter of fiscal 2004 when we were sued by Systems
America, Inc., a privately held company, in an action which alleged that, prior
to our acquisition of Mokume Software, Inc. in November 2002, persons
associated with Mokume Software misappropriated trade secrets and confidential
information of Systems America, unfairly competed with Systems America with
respect to its customer relationships, and infringed Systems America s
trademarks and trade names. Litigation can be expensive to defend, can consume
significant amounts of management time and could result in an adverse judgment
or settlement that could have adverse effects on our results of operations and
financial condition.  

We will incur increased costs as a result of recently enacted laws and
regulations relating to corporate governance matters and public disclosure.    Recently
enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public
companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, rules
adopted or proposed by the SEC and by the NASDAQ Stock Market and new accounting
pronouncements, including new accounting rules regarding the expensing of stock
options, will increase our costs to evaluate the implications of these laws,
regulations and standards and comply with their requirements. To maintain high
standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest
resources to comply with evolving standards. We expect that this investment
will result in increased general and administrative expenses in fiscal years
2006 and 2007 and a diversion of management time and attention from strategic
revenues generation and cost management activities. In addition, these new laws
and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain
certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance,
and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur
substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact
of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain
qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on our board committees
or as executive officers. We are taking steps to comply with applicable laws
and regulations in accordance with the deadlines by which compliance is
required, but we cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional
costs that we may incur to respond to their requirements and cannot be certain
that we will be able to fully comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding compliance with certain assessments and auditor
attestations regarding internal control structure reporting. 

The requirement to account for stock options we grant as compensation
expense will significantly reduce our net income and our earnings per share,
and may result in or increase losses.    Effective November
1, 2005, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB Statement No.
123(R),   Share-Based Payment  , and Securities ( SFAS
123(R) and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ( SAB 107 ),
using the modified-prospective transition method.  SFAS 123(R) requires us to account for equity
under our stock plans using a fair value-based model on the option grant date
and record it as a stock-based compensation expense. Expenses we incur under
SFAS 123(R) may significantly reduce our net income and our earnings per share,
and may result in or increase our losses. As a result of adopting Statement
123(R), the Company s net income before income taxes for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 is $57,000 lower than if we had continued to account for
share-based compensation under Opinion No. 25, as we did prior to November 31,
2005.  We now estimate the fair value of
employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under its employee stock
purchase plan, or  ESPP  using a Black-Scholes-Merton Option-Pricing Model (see
Note 2 to our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in
this report). A fair value-based model, such as the Black-Scholes-Merton
option-pricing model, requires the input of highly subjective assumptions and
does not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of our
stock options. Highly subjective assumptions used under the
Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model include the expected stock price
volatility, expected life of an option and forfeiture rate, which will require
us to expense shares issued under employee stock purchase plans and stock
options as a stock-based compensation expense using a fair value based model. 

Adoption and application of accounting regulations and related
interpretations and policies regarding revenue      recognition could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize
lower revenue and profits.    Although we use standardized license
agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under
generally accepted accounting principles, we must often negotiate and revise
terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in
multi-product or multi-year transactions. As our transactions increase in complexity
with the sale of larger, multi-product, multi-year licenses, negotiation of
mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle and, in
certain situations, may require us to defer recognition of revenue on such
licenses. We believe that we are in compliance with Statement of Position 97-2,
  Software Revenue Recognition,   as
amended, however these future, more complex, multi-product, multi-year license
transactions may require additional accounting analysis to account for them
accurately, could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue
accounting practices and may contain terms affecting the timing of revenue
recognition. 

Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase
method of accounting for the merger with Poet and FastObjects may adversely
affect the market value of Versant s common stock.    In
accordance with United States generally 

36  

accepted accounting principles, Versant accounts for the merger with
Poet and FastObjects, Inc. using the purchase method of accounting, which
results in charges to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on the
market value of Versant common stock. Under the purchase method of accounting,
Versant has allocated the total estimated purchase price of Poet and
FastObjects to net tangible assets and amortizable intangible assets based on
their fair values as of the respective dates of the closing of these
acquisitions, and recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair
values as goodwill. Versant will incur additional depreciation and amortization
expense over the useful lives of certain of the net tangible and intangible
assets acquired in connection with these acquisitions, which will extend into
future fiscal years. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or
intangible assets becomes impaired, Versant may be required to incur material
charges relating to the impairment of those assets. These depreciation,
amortization, and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on
Versant s results of operations.  

Risks Related to Our Industry    

Our products face significant competition.     For
Versant Object Database and FastObjects products, we compete with other
organizations offering other database management systems. We face substantial
competition from traditional relational database management companies including
Oracle, Computer Associates, Sybase, IBM, and Microsoft. We also face
competition from object database companies including Progress Software
Corporation and Objectivity. Additionally, some prospective customers might
attempt to build specialized data storage capability themselves using their own
internal engineering resources, sometimes starting with low level operating
system functionality, and other times utilizing lower level data storage
routines that are commercially available, such as Berkeley DB, a simplified
database without query processing capability. 

Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly
greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources,
significantly greater name recognition, broader suites of product offerings,
stronger sales and distribution channels and a much larger installed base of
customers than ours. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established
relationships with our current and potential customers. Our competitors may be
able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of
their products. They may further have more direct access to corporate
decision-makers of key customers based on their previous relationships with
customers. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new or
emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and may be able to
obtain sales of products competitive to ours through package sales of a suite
of a variety of products that we do not offer. We may not be able to compete
successfully against current or future competitors, and competitive pressures
could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and
financial condition.  

We depend on successful technology development.   
We believe that significant research and development expenditures will continue
to be necessary for us to remain competitive. While we believe our research and
development expenditures will improve our product lines, because of the
uncertainty of software development projects, these expenditures will not
necessarily result in successful product introductions. Uncertainties affecting
the success of software development project introductions include technical
difficulties, delays in introductions of new products, market conditions,
competitive products, and consumer acceptance of new products and operating
systems. In addition, if we are required to adopt cost-conservation measures,
we may be compelled to reduce the amounts of our investment in research and
development activities, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain
the competitiveness of our existing products, our ability to develop new products,
and our future research and development capabilities. Recent reductions in our
revenues and operating expenses could require us to limit our research and
development expenditures, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to
continue to timely develop technologies and products necessary for us to remain
competitive. 

We also face certain challenges in integrating third-party technology
embedded in our products. These challenges include the technological challenges
of integration, which may result in development delays, and uncertainty
regarding the economic terms of our relationship with the third-party
technology providers, which may result in delays of the commercial release of
new products. We expect that evolving industry standards will affect our
business. For example, the EJB 3.0 standard (JSR 220) for data storage in the
Java 2 Enterprise Edition will offer risks and opportunities for Versant. The
principal risk is that this technology may stimulate the creation of a broader
range of competitors, and some of them could potentially be able to offer
applications bundled with application servers. The opportunity is that we
expect a very large number of applications to be built with programming
interfaces that can readily use Versant products to gain performance and other
advantages.  

We depend on our personnel, for whom competition is intense.   
Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service
of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel. The loss of the
services of one or more of our key employees could have a material adverse
effect on our business. Our future success also depends on our continuing
ability to 

37  

attract, train and motivate highly qualified technical, sales and
managerial personnel. Our current financial position and expense reductions may
make it more difficult for us to attract and retain highly talented individuals
due to constraints on our ability to offer compensation at levels that may be
offered by larger competitors.  

We must protect our intellectual property.    Despite
our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt
to copy aspects of our products, obtain or use information that we regard as
proprietary or use or make copies of our products in violation of license
agreements. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and
potentially expensive. In addition, the laws of many jurisdictions do not
protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the
United States. Shrink-wrap licenses may be wholly or partially unenforceable
under the laws of certain jurisdictions, and copyright and trade secret
protection for software may be unavailable in certain foreign countries. Our
means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our
competitors may independently develop similar technology. 

We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement.   
We expect that developers of object-oriented technology will increasingly be
subject to infringement claims as the number of products, competitors and
patents in our industry sector grows. For example, in 2004 we were served with
a complaint filed by Systems America, Inc. alleging that we received
misappropriated intellectual property from Mokume Software, Inc. when we
acquired Mokume in November 2002 and that Mokume had interfered with certain
business relationships of Systems America. While this action has since been
settled, any claim of this type, whether meritorious or not, could be
time-consuming, could result in costly litigation, could cause product shipment
delays and require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay
amounts in settlement of the claims or pursuant to judgments. If any of our
products or technologies were found to infringe third-party rights, royalty or
licensing agreements to use such third-party rights might not be available on
terms acceptable to us, or at all, and we might be enjoined from marketing an
infringing product or technology, each of which circumstances could have a
material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial
condition. 

Risks Related to our Stock    

Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market.    We
do not currently meet the listing requirements necessary for our common stock
to be listed on the NASDAQ National Market System ( NMS ). Effective October 1,
2002, we transferred the listing of our common stock from the NMS to the NASDAQ
Capital Market. The listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market
may be perceived as a negative by investors and may adversely affect the
liquidity and trading price of our common stock. We may be unable to re-list
our common stock on the NMS. 

In order for our common stock to continue to be listed on the NASDAQ
Capital Market, we must satisfy        the
NASDAQ Capital listing requirements, and there can be no assurance that we will
continue to be able to do so   . Although the continued listing
requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market are not as demanding as those of the
NMS, they do, among other things, require that our stock have a minimum bid
price of $1.00 per share, which we sometimes refer to below as the $1.00
minimum price requirement, and that either (i) we have shareholders  equity of
$2.5 million, or (ii) we have $500,000 in net income or (iii) the market value
of our publicly held shares be $35.0 million or more. As reported in our
September 17, 2004 report on Form 8-K, on September 15, 2004, we received
notification from the NASDAQ Stock Market that, because our common stock had
then traded at a price below $1.00 per share for thirty consecutive trading
days, we were required to regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum price
requirement to avoid delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital
Market. As a result of our adoption of a 1-for-10 reverse stock split that was
approved by our shareholders on August 22, 2005, as of September 12, 2005 the
closing bid price of our common stock exceeded $1.00 per share for more than
ten consecutive trading days and on September 8, 2005 we received written
notification from the NASDAQ Stock Market that we had regained compliance with
this minimum bid price requirement. Our stockholders  equity as of January 31,
2006 was $9.8 million, and thus is still substantially above the NASDAQ Capital
Market continued listing requirement that our shareholders  equity be
$2,500,000 or greater. However there can be no assurance that we might not
experience non-compliance with these listing requirements at some time in the
future. If our common stock were to be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ
Capital Market, then the trading market for our common stock and the ability of
our shareholders to trade our shares and obtain liquidity and fair market
prices for their Versant shares are likely to be significantly impaired and, as
a result, the market price of Versant s common stock could be expected to
decline significantly. 

We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our shareholders and
cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities.    As
part of our strategy, we may review opportunities to buy other businesses or
technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of
our markets or enhance technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer
growth opportunities. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could any or
all of the following: 

38  

pay amounts of cash to acquire assets or businesses; 

            issue
stock that would dilute current shareholders  percentage ownership; 

            incur
debt; or 

              assume
liabilities. 

Such acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including the following:  

problems
combining the acquired operations, technologies or products or integration of
new personnel; 

            the
incurrence of unanticipated costs in completing such acquisitions or in
inheriting unforeseen liabilities and expenses of acquired businesses; 

            diversion
of management s attention from our core business; 

            adverse
effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; 

            risks
associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior
experience; and 

            potential
loss of key employees of purchased organizations. 

There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully
integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies that we might
purchase in the future.  

Our stock price is volatile.    Our revenues,
operating results and stock price have been and may continue to be subject to
significant volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. We have previously
experienced revenues and earnings results that were significantly below levels
expected by securities analysts and investors, which have had an immediate and
significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. This may
occur again in the future. Additionally, as a significant portion of our
revenues often occurs late in the quarter, we may not learn of revenues
shortfalls until late in the quarter, which, when announced, could result in an
even more immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of our common
stock. The recent 1-for-10 reverse split of our common stock may also have the
effect of increasing the volatility of our stock s price. 

We may desire or need to raise additional funds through debt or equity
financings, which would dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders and
possible subordinate certain of their rights to rights of new investors.    We
may choose to raise additional funds in debt or equity financings if they are available
to us on terms we believe reasonable to increase our working capital,
strengthen our financial position or to make acquisitions. Any sales of
additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in dilution of
the equity interests of our existing shareholders, which could be substantial.
Additionally, if we issue shares of preferred stock or convertible debt to
raise funds, the holders of those securities might be entitled to various
preferential rights over the holders of our common stock, including repayment
of their investment, and possibly additional amounts, before any payments could
be made to holders of our common stock in connection with an acquisition of the
company. Such preferred shares, if authorized, might be granted rights and
preferences that would be senior to, or otherwise adversely affect, the rights
and the value of Versant s common stock. Also, new investors may require that
we enter into voting arrangements that give them additional voting control or
representation on our board of directors. 

ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
ABOUT MARKET RISK.   

Foreign
currency hedging instruments.     We
transact business in various foreign currencies and, accordingly, we are
subject to exposure from adverse movements in foreign currency exchange
rates.  To date, the effect of changes in
foreign currency exchange rates on revenue and operating expenses has not been
material   .    Operating expenses incurred
by our foreign subsidiaries are denominated primarily in local currencies.  We currently do not use financial instruments
to hedge these operating expenses.  We
intend to assess the need to utilize financial instruments to hedge currency
exposures on an ongoing basis during the remainder of fiscal 2006. 

We do not use derivative
financial instruments for speculative trading purposes.  

Interest
rate risk.     Our
cash equivalents primarily consist of money market accounts, accordingly, we
don t believe that our interest rate risk is significant. 

39  

ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   

(a)    Evaluation of Disclosure Controls
and Procedures .  

Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, rules define the term  disclosure
controls and procedures  to mean a company s controls and other procedures that
are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the company
in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods
specified in the SEC s rules and forms. 
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls
and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by
a company in its reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to the company s management,
including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure  

Based on the evaluation
of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures by our
management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and our chief
financial officer, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our
chief executive officer and our chief financial officer have concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information
required to be disclosed in the reports that the Company files or submits under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission s rules and
forms.  

(b)   Changes
in Internal Control over Financial Reporting .  

There was no change in
our internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended
January 31, 2006 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  

SEC
rules define the term  internal control over financial reporting  as a
process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company s principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar
functions, and effected by the Company s board of directors, management and
other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
includes those policies and procedures that:  

Pertain to the maintenance
of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; 

Provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and 

Provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or
disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements. 

PART
II.  OTHER INFORMATION   

ITEM 1A.   
RISK FACTORS   

Versant
will be required to include or consolidate the operating results, including the
losses, of Vanatec GmbH in Versant s consolidated financial statements for so
long as Versant is required to account for Vanatec as a  variable interest
entity , and this may result in significant reductions in Versant s net income
and earnings per share and may result in, or significantly increase Versant s
losses.    In July 2005, Versant, through its subsidiary
Versant GmbH, effected a spin-off of tangible assets, technology rights and
contracts related to its Versant Open Access .NET business to Vanatec GmbH ( Vanatec ),
a then newly formed privately held German company. In connection with that
spin-off, seven former Versant employees departed Versant to join Vanatec, and
a partnership formed by those individuals received an 80.4% equity interest in
Vanatec, with Versant retaining the remaining 19.6% equity interest in Vanatec.
Versant has determined that the equity at risk in Vanatec is not sufficient to
permit Vanatec to finance its activities without additional subordinated
financial support; therefore, Versant has determined that Vanatec is a variable
interest entity in accordance with FIN 46(R), Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities (As Amended).  As a
result, in accordance with FIN 46(R), Vanatec s operating results have been
included in Versant s consolidated financial statements for 

40  

the three month
periods ended July 31, 2005, October 31, 2005 and January 31, 2006, and will be
included for any additional periods in which the criteria of FIN 46(R) for
consolidation are met. During the three months ended January 31, 2006, Versant
absorbed its share of Vanatec s losses until the variable interest liability
recorded on Versant s balance sheet was reduced to zero. After this variable
interest liability reached zero, Versant has continued consolidating 100% of
the losses that Vanatec incurred for an additional amount of $35,000 in the
quarter ended January 31, 2006. Versant will be required to continue to
consolidate 100% of Vanatec s losses in the future for so long as Vanatec has a
negative equity on its balance sheet and as long as Versant is required to
consolidate it for financial reporting purposes under the criteria of FIN
46(R). There can be no assurance at this time that Versant will in the future
no longer be required to consolidate the operating results of Vanatec. Versant
does not control the operations of Vanatec and thus cannot directly influence
or control the amount of Vanatec s losses. Consequently Versant may be unable
to directly control or limit the amount of Vanatec s losses that will be
consolidated in Versant s financial statements and thus may be required under
FIN 46(R) to consolidate Vanatec s losses for a significant period of time.
Consolidation of Vanatec s losses will have the effect of reducing Versant s
net income and earnings per share or cause Versant to recognize losses or
increase the amount of such losses and the impact on Versant s financial
results could be significant.  

ITEM
5.  OTHER INFORMATION   

The Company s Board of Directors has elected to hold the Company s 2005
Annual Meeting of Shareholders at the Company s offices in Fremont, California
on April 24, 2006. Proxy Statements regarding this meeting have been mailed to
the Company s shareholders.  The Annual
Meeting will be held more than thirty days prior to the anniversary of last
year s annual meeting date. Shareholder proposals intended for inclusion in the
Company s proxy statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders pursuant
to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 must be directed
to the Corporate Secretary, Versant Corporation, 6539 Dumbarton Circle,
Fremont, California 94555 and must be received by March 31, 2006.  In order for proposals of shareholders made
outside of Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act to be considered  timely  within
the meaning of Rule 14(a)-4(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
such proposals must also be received by the Corporate Secretary at the above
address by March 31, 2006.  

41  

ITEM
6.  EXHIBITS   

(a)              Exhibits 

The following exhibits are filed herewith:  

10.01  

Default Waiver and First Amendment to Loan and
  Security Agreement dated as of February 22, 2006 between Silicon Valley Bank
  and Registrant  

31.01  

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Principal Executive
  Officer and Principal Financial Officer  

32.01  

Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive
  Officer and Principal Financial Officer  

42  

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
authorized.  

VERSANT CORPORATION  

Dated:  

March 17, 2006  

/s/ Jochen Witte  

Jochen Witte  

President and Chief
  Executive Officer  

Chief Financial
  Officer, Treasurer and Secretary  

(Duly Authorized
  Officer and Principal  

Financial Officer and
  Chief Accounting Officer)  

43  

<EX-10.01>
 2
 a06-7111_1ex10d01.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.01   

DEFAULT
WAIVER AND FIRST AMENDMENT   

   TO   

   LOAN AND
SECURITY AGREEMENT   

This   DEFAULT WAIVER AND FIRST
AMENDMENT   to Loan and Security Agreement (this      Amendment ) is entered into this 22nd day
of February, 2006, by and between Silicon Valley Bank ( Bank ) and Versant
Corporation, a California corporation ( Borrower ) whose address is 6539
Dumbarton Circle, Fremont, CA  94555.  

R    ECITALS   

A.   Bank and Borrower
have entered into that certain Loan and Security Agreement dated as of June 16,
2005, by and between Bank and Borrower (as the same may from time to time be
amended, modified, supplemented or restated, the  Loan Agreement ). Bank has
extended credit to Borrower for the purposes permitted in the Loan Agreement. 

B.    Borrower is
currently in default of the Loan Agreement for failing to (1)  comply with the covenants set forth in
Section 6.2(a)(i) for the months ended November 30, 2005, December 31, 2005 and
January 31, 2006  and (2) Section 7.1 of
the Loan Agreement, (each of the defaults under (1) and (2), collectively, the  Existing
Defaults ).  

C.   Borrower has
requested that Bank waive its rights and remedies against Borrower, limited
specifically to the Existing Defaults. Although Bank is under no obligation to
do so, Bank is willing to not exercise its rights and remedies against Borrower
related to the specific Existing Defaults on the terms and conditions set forth
in this Amendment, so long as Borrower complies with the terms, covenants and
conditions set forth in this Amendment. 

D.   Borrower has
further requested that Bank amend the Loan Agreement to amend the monthly
financial statement reporting requirement. Bank has agreed to so amend certain
provisions of the Loan Agreement, but only to the extent, in accordance with
the terms, subject to the conditions and in reliance upon the representations
and warranties set forth below. 

A    GREEMENT   

N    OW ,     T   HEREFORE ,  in
consideration of the foregoing recitals and other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged, and
intending to be legally bound, the parties hereto agree as follows: 

Definitions.    Capitalized
terms used but not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings given to
them in the Loan Agreement.  

Waiver of Covenant Default.   

Bank hereby waives Borrower s existing default under the Loan Agreement
by virtue of Borrower s failure to comply with Section 6.2(a)(i) for the months
ended November 30, 2005, December 31, 2005 and January 31, 2006.  

Bank also
waives Borrower s existing default under the Loan Agreement by virtue of
Borrower s failure to comply with Section 7.1 by Borrower s failure to obtain
Bank s prior consent with respect to the sale of certain assets of the
WebSphere Business as defined in that certain Asset Purchase Agreement between
Versant Corporation and Sima Solutions dated February 1, 2006. Bank s waiver of
Borrower s compliance of these covenants shall apply only to the foregoing
period. Accordingly, hereinafter, Borrower shall be in compliance with these
covenants.  

Bank s agreement to waive the above-described
defaults (1) in no way shall be deemed an agreement by the Bank to waive
Borrower s compliance with the above-described covenants as of all other dates
and (2) shall not limit or impair the Bank s right to demand strict performance
of these covenants as of all other dates and (3) shall not limit or impair the
Bank s right to demand strict performance of all other covenants as of any
date.  

Amendments to Loan Agreement.   

Section 6.2    (  Financial Statements, Reports, Certificates  ).  

Section
6.2(a)(i) is hereby amended to read as follows:  

(i) at such times as outstanding Obligations
exist, as soon as available, but no later than thirty (30) days after the last
day of each month, a company prepared consolidated balance sheet and income
statement covering Borrower s consolidated operations during the period
certified by a Responsible Officer and in a form acceptable to Bank.  

Limitation
of Amendments.   

The amendment set forth in   Section 3  , above, are effective for the
purposes set forth herein and shall be limited precisely as written and shall
not be deemed to (a) be a consent to any amendment, waiver or modification of
any other term or condition of any Loan Document, or (b) otherwise prejudice
any right or remedy which Bank may now have or may have in the future under or
in connection with any Loan Document.  

This Amendment shall be construed in connection with
and as part of the Loan Documents and all terms, conditions, representations,
warranties, covenants and agreements set forth in the Loan Documents, except as
herein amended, are hereby ratified and confirmed and shall remain in full
force and effect.  

Representations and Warranties.    To induce Bank
to enter into this Amendment, Borrower hereby represents and warrants to Bank
as follows:  

Immediately after giving effect to this Amendment
(a) the representations and warranties contained in the Loan Documents are
true, accurate and complete in all material respects as of the date hereof
(except to the extent such representations and  

warranties relate to an earlier date, in which case they are true and
correct as of such date), and (b) no Event of Default other than the Existing
Defaults has occurred and is continuing;  

Borrower has the power and authority to execute and deliver
this Amendment and to perform its obligations under the Loan Agreement, as
amended by this Amendment;  

The organizational documents of Borrower delivered
to Bank on the June 16, 2005 remain true, accurate and complete and have not
been amended, supplemented or restated and are and continue to be in full force
and effect;  

The execution and delivery by Borrower of this
Amendment and the performance by Borrower of its obligations under the Loan
Agreement, as amended by this Amendment, have been duly authorized by all
necessary action on the part of Borrower;  

The execution and delivery by Borrower of this
Amendment and the performance by Borrower of its obligations under the Loan
Agreement, as amended by this Amendment, do not and will not contravene (a) any
law or regulation binding on or affecting Borrower, (b) any contractual
restriction with a Person binding on Borrower, (c) any order, judgment or
decree of any court or other governmental or public body or authority, or
subdivision thereof, binding on Borrower, or (d) the organizational documents
of Borrower;  

The execution and delivery by Borrower of this
Amendment and the performance by Borrower of its obligations under the Loan
Agreement, as amended by this Amendment, do not require any order, consent,
approval, license, authorization or validation of, or filing, recording or
registration with, or exemption by any governmental or public body or
authority, or subdivision thereof, binding on either Borrower, except as
already has been obtained or made; and  

This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered
by Borrower and is the binding obligation of Borrower, enforceable against
Borrower in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be
limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation, moratorium or
other similar laws of general application and equitable principles relating to
or affecting creditors  rights.  

Prior Agreement   . Except as
expressly provided for in this Amendment, the Loan Documents are hereby
ratified and reaffirmed and shall remain in full force and effect. This
Amendment is not a novation and the terms and conditions of this Amendment
shall be in addition to and supplemental to all terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Documents. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between
this Amendment and the terms of such documents, the terms of this Amendment
shall be controlling, but such document shall not otherwise be affected or the
rights therein impaired.  

Release by Borrower   .  

FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION   , Borrower
hereby  

forever relieves, releases, and discharges Bank and its present or
former employees, officers, directors, agents, representatives, attorneys, and
each of them, from any and all claims, debts, liabilities, demands, obligations,
promises, acts, agreements, costs and expenses, actions and causes of action,
of every type, kind, nature, description or character whatsoever, whether known
or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, absolute or contingent, arising out of or
in any manner whatsoever connected with or related to facts, circumstances,
issues, controversies or claims existing or arising from the beginning of time
through and including the date of execution of this Amendment (collectively    Released Claims   ). Without limiting the
foregoing, the Released Claims shall include any and all liabilities or claims
arising out of or in any manner whatsoever connected with or related to the
Loan Documents, the Recitals hereto, any instruments, agreements or documents
executed in connection with any of the foregoing or the origination,
negotiation, administration, servicing and/or enforcement of any of the
foregoing.  

In furtherance of this release, Borrower expressly
acknowledges and waives any and all rights under Section 1542 of the California
Civil Code, which provides as follows:  

A general release   does not extend to claims which the creditor
does not know or expect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the
release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement
with the debtor.  (Emphasis added.)  

By entering into this release, Borrower recognizes
that no facts or representations are ever absolutely certain and it may
hereafter discover facts in addition to or different from those which it
presently knows or believes to be true, but that it is the intention of
Borrower hereby to fully, finally and forever settle and release all matters,
disputes and differences, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected;
accordingly, if Borrower should subsequently discover that any fact that it
relied upon in entering into this release was untrue, or that any understanding
of the facts was incorrect, Borrower shall not be entitled to set aside this
release by reason thereof, regardless of any claim of mistake of fact or law or
any other circumstances whatsoever. Borrower acknowledges that it is not
relying upon and has not relied upon any representation or statement made by
Bank with respect to the facts underlying this release or with regard to any of
such party s rights or asserted rights.  

This release may be pleaded as a full and complete
defense and/or as a cross-complaint or counterclaim against any action, suit,
or other proceeding that may be instituted, prosecuted or attempted in breach
of this release. Borrower acknowledges that the release contained herein
constitutes a material inducement to Bank to enter into this Amendment, and
that Bank would not have done so but for Bank s expectation that such release
is valid and enforceable in all events.  

Borrower hereby represents and warrants to Bank, and
Bank is relying thereon, as follows:  

Except as expressly stated in this Amendment,
neither Bank nor any agent, employee or representative of Bank has made any
statement or representation to Borrower regarding any fact relied upon by
Borrower in entering into this Amendment.  

Borrower has made such investigation of the facts
pertaining to this Amendment and all of the matters appertaining thereto, as it
deems necessary.  

The terms of this Amendment are contractual and not
a mere recital.  

This Amendment has been carefully read by Borrower,
the contents hereof are known and understood by Borrower, and this Amendment is
signed freely, and without duress, by Borrower.  

Borrower represents and warrants that it is the sole
and lawful owner of all right, title and interest in and to every claim and
every other matter which it releases herein, and that it has not heretofore
assigned or transferred, or purported to assign or transfer, to any person,
firm or entity any claims or other matters herein released. Borrower shall
indemnify Bank, defend and hold it harmless from and against all claims based
upon or arising in connection with prior assignments or purported assignments
or transfers of any claims or matters released herein.  

Counterparts.    This Amendment
may be executed in any number of counterparts and all of such counterparts
taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.  

Effectiveness   . This
Amendment shall be deemed effective upon (a) the due execution and delivery to
Bank of this Amendment by each party hereto, (b) Borrower s payment of an
amendment fee in an amount equal to $1,000.  

Governing Law.    This Amendment
and the rights and obligations of the parties hereto shall be governed by and construed
in accordance with the laws of the State of California.  

I    N  W   ITNESS  W   HEREOF ,  the parties hereto have caused this
Amendment to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first written above. 

SILICON VALLEY BANK:  

BORROWER:  

Versant
  Corporation   

By   

By   

/s/
  Heather E. Hamilton   

/s/
  Jochen Witte   

Relationship
  Manager   

Chief
  Executive Officer   

</EX-10.01>

<EX-31.01>
 3
 a06-7111_1ex31d01.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.01   

Certification
of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant To Exchange Act
Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) As Adopted Pursuant To Section 302
of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

I, Jochen Witte, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer of Versant Corporation, certify that:  

1.                  I have reviewed
this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Versant Corporation (the  registrant  

2.                  Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

2.                  Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.                  The registrant s
other certifying officer(s), if any, and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a)                 Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)                Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

c)                 Disclosed in this
report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.                  The registrant s
other certifying officer(s), if any, and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a) All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

b) Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: March 17, 2006  

By  

/s/ Jochen Witte  

Jochen Witte  

Chief Executive Officer / Chief Financial
  Officer  

</EX-31.01>

<EX-32.01>
 4
 a06-7111_1ex32d01.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.01   

Certification
of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer 
Furnished Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Versant Corporation (the  Company )
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2006 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Jochen
Witte, as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  

2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the
Company for the quarterly period covered by the Report.  

/s/ Jochen Witte  

Jochen Witte  

President and Chief Executive Officer,  

Chief Financial Officer  

March 17, 2006  

A signed original of this written statement
required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be
retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.01>

