<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060221_10-Q_edgar_data_913496_0001084067-06-000032_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>71907</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>55187</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>409</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>7</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001084067-06-000032.hdr.sgml : 20060220
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060221113142
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001084067-06-000032
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060221
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060221

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV L P SERIES 1
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000913496
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS [6513]
		IRS NUMBER:				330563307
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0331

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-26048
		FILM NUMBER:		06631822

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		17782 SKY PARK CIRCLE
		CITY:			IRVINE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92614-6404
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7146625565

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		17782 SKY PARK CIRCLE
		CITY:			IRVINE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92614-6404

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FjxxkJkUmJhq6Cb7h69+wSqxj2Rsf1bdoYZqTro96uke106P1M+DNiglPjY+W6Ed
 nbD7Fg1xCKdvdApF+UkEyg==

 0001084067-06-000032.txt : 20060221

10-Q
 1
 nt4110q.txt
 NAT 4-1 10-Q

FORM 10-Q

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

(Mark One)

[X] QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934

                For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2005

                                       OR

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934

             For the transition period from           to
                                           -----------  ----------

                         Commission file number: 0-26048

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P., Series 1

                  California                              33-0563307
                 State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer
                incorporation or organization         Identification No.)

17782 Sky Park Circle
                              Irvine, CA 92614-6404
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (714) 662-5565
                               (Telephone number)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes         No     X
   ---------  ----------
Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  registrant  is an  accelerated  filer (as
defined in rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes         No     X
   ---------  ----------

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P. SERIES 1
                       (A California Lomited Partnership)

                               INDEX TO FORM 10-Q

                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005

PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

         Item 1. Financial Statements

         Balance Sheets
             December 31, 2005 and March 31, 2005..............................3

         Statements of Operations
           For the Three and Nine Months Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004......4

         Statement of Partners' Equity (Deficit)
           For the Nine Months Ended December 31, 2005.........................5

         Statements of Cash Flows
           For the Nine Months Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004................6

         Notes to Financial Statements.........................................7

         Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                  Condition and Results of Operations.........................14

         Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk...15

         Item 4. Procedures and Controls......................................15

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

         Item 1. Legal Proceedings............................................15

         Item 2.  Changes in Securities and Use of Proceed....................15

         Item 3.  Defaults Upon Senior Securities.............................15

         Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.........15

         Item 5.  Other Information...........................................15

         Item 6. Exhibits.....................................................16

         Signatures...........................................................17

2

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P. SERIES 1
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                                 BALANCE SHEETS

See accompanying notes to financial statements

                                        3

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P. SERIES 1
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                            STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

         For the Three and Nine Months Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004
                                   (unaudited)

See accompanying notes to financial statements
                                       4

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P. SERIES 1
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                     STATEMENT OF PARTNERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)

                   For the Nine Months Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)
 
                 See accompanying notes to financial statements
                                       5

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P. SERIES 1
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

              For the Nine Months Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004
                                   (unaudited)

See accompanying notes to financial statements
                                       6

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P. SERIES 1
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                          NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
- ---------------------------------------------------
General
- -------
The accompanying  condensed unaudited financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q
for quarterly  reports under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange Act
of 1934.  Accordingly,  they do not include all of the information and footnotes
required by  accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the United States of
America for complete  financial  statements.  In the opinion of management,  all
adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a
fair  presentation  have been  included.  Operating  results for the nine months
ended December 31, 2005 are not  necessarily  indicative of the results that may
be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006. For further  information,
refer  to  the  financial  statements  and  footnotes  thereto  included  in the
Partnership's  annual  report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended  March 31,
2005.

Organization
- ------------
WNC Housing Tax Credit Fund IV, L.P., Series 1, a California Limited Partnership
(the  "Partnership"),  was  formed on May 4, 1993 under the laws of the state of
California,  and commenced  operations on October 20, 1993. The  Partnership was
formed to invest  primarily in other limited  partnerships  (the "Local  Limited
Partnerships")  which  own  and  operate  multi-family  housing  complexes ("the
Housing  Complex")  that are eligible  for Low Income  Housing Tax Credits.  The
local  general  partners  (the "Local  General  Partners") of each Local Limited
Partnership retain  responsibility  for maintaining,  operating and managing the
Housing Complex.

The general partner of the Partnership is WNC Tax Credit Partners IV, L.P. ("TCP
IV"). The general  partner of TCP IV is WNC & Associates,  Inc.  ("Associates").
The chairman and president own  substantially  all of the  outstanding  stock of
Associates.  The  business of the  Partnership  is conducted  primarily  through
Associates as neither TCP IV nor the Partnership have employees  of  their  own.

The  Partnership  Agreement  authorized the sale of up to 10,000 units at $1,000
per Unit  ("Units").  The offering of Units concluded in July 1994 at which time
10,000 Units in the amount of $10,000,000 had been accepted. The General Partner
has 1% interest in operating profits and losses, taxable income and losses, cash
available for  distribution  from the Partnership  and tax credits.  The Limited
Partners  will be allocated  the  remaining  99% of these items in proportion to
their respective investments.

After the Limited  Partners  have received  proceeds from a sale or  refinancing
equal to their capital  contributions and their return on investment (as defined
in the  Partnership  Agreement)  and the General  Partner has received  proceeds
equal to its capital contribution and subordinated disposition fee (as described
in Note 3) from the remainder,  any additional sale or refinancing proceeds will
be distributed  90% to the Limited  Partners (in proportion to their  respective
investments) and 10% to the General Partner.

Certain Risks and Uncertainties
- -------------------------------
An investment in the  Partnership  and the  Partnership's  investments  in Local
Limited  Partnerships  and their Housing  Complexes are subject to risks.  These
risks may impact the tax benefits of an investment in the  Partnership,  and the
amount of proceeds  available for distribution to the Limited Partners,  if any,
on liquidation of the Partnership's investments. Some of those risks include the
following:

The  Low  Income   Housing  Tax  Credits   rules  are   extremely   complicated.
Noncompliance  with these rules results in the loss of future Low Income Housing
Tax  Credits  and the  fractional  recapture  of Low Income  Housing Tax Credits
already taken. In

                                       7
 
                  WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P. SERIES 1
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-CONTINUED

                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued
- --------------------------------------------------------------
most  cases  the  annual  amount  of Low  Income  Housing  Tax  Credits  that an
individual  can use is limited to the tax  liability  due on the  person's  last
$25,000 of taxable income. The Local Limited  Partnerships may be unable to sell
the Housing Complexes at a price which would result in the Partnership realizing
cash   distributions  or  proceeds  from  the  transaction.   Accordingly,   the
Partnership  may be unable to distribute any cash to its limited  partners.  Low
Income  Housing Tax Credits may be the only  benefit from an  investment  in the
Partnership.

The Partnership has invested in a limited number of Local Limited  Partnerships.
Such  limited  diversity  means that the  results of  operation  of each  single
Housing  Complex  will have a greater  impact on the  Partnership.  With limited
diversity,   poor   performance   of  one  Housing   Complex  could  impair  the
Partnership's ability to satisfy its investment objectives. Each Housing Complex
is subject to mortgage  indebtedness.  If a Local Limited  Partnership failed to
pay its  mortgage,  it  could  lose  its  Housing  Complex  in  foreclosure.  If
foreclosure  were to occur during the first 15 years,  the loss of any remaining
future Low Income  Housing Tax  Credits,  a  fractional  recapture  of prior Low
Income Housing Tax Credits,  and a loss of the  Partnership's  investment in the
Housing  Complex  would  occur.  The  Partnership  is  a  limited  partner  or a
non-managing  member  of  each  Local  Limited  Partnership.   Accordingly,  the
Partnership  will have very  limited  rights with respect to  management  of the
Local  Limited  Partnerships.  The  Partnership  will rely  totally on the Local
General  Partners.  Neither  the  Partnership's  investments  in  Local  Limited
Partnerships  nor  the  Local  Limited  Partnerships'   investments  in  Housing
Complexes are readily  marketable.  To the extent the Housing  Complexes receive
government financing or operating subsidies,  they may be subject to one or more
of the  following  risks:  difficulties  in  obtaining  tenants  for the Housing
Complexes;  difficulties  in  obtaining  rent  increases;  limitations  on  cash
distributions;  limitations  on  sales  or  refinancing  of  Housing  Complexes;
limitations on transfers of interests in Local Limited Partnerships; limitations
on removal of Local  General  Partners;  limitations  on subsidy  programs;  and
possible changes in applicable regulations. Uninsured casualties could result in
loss of property and Low Income  Housing Tax Credits and recapture of Low Income
Housing Tax  Credits  previously  taken.  The value of real estate is subject to
risks  from  fluctuating  economic   conditions,   including  employment  rates,
inflation,  tax, environmental,  land use and zoning policies, supply and demand
of similar properties, and neighborhood conditions, among others.

The  ability of Limited  Partners to claim tax losses  from the  Partnership  is
limited.  The IRS may audit the  Partnership or a Local Limited  Partnership and
challenge the tax treatment of tax items.  The amount of Low Income  Housing Tax
Credits and tax losses allocable to the limited partners could be reduced if the
IRS were  successful  in such a  challenge.  The  alternative  minimum tax could
reduce tax benefits from an investment in the  Partnership.  Changes in tax laws
could also impact the tax benefits from an investment in the Partnership  and/or
the value of the Housing Complexes.

Substantially  all of the Low  Income  Housing  Tax  Credits  anticipated  to be
realized from the Local Limited Partnerships have been realized. The Partnership
does not anticipate  being allocated a significant  amount of Low Income Housing
Tax Credits from the Local Limited  Partnerships in the future.  Until the Local
Limited  Partnerships  have  completed the 15 year Low Income Housing Tax Credit
compliance  period,  risks  exist for  potential  recapture  of prior Low Income
Housing Tax Credits.

No trading  market  for the Units  exists or is  expected  to  develop.  Limited
Partners  may be unable to sell  their  Units  except at a  discount  and should
consider their Units to be a long-term  investment.  Individual limited partners
will have no recourse if they disagree with actions  authorized by a vote of the
majority of Limited Partners.

8

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P. SERIES 1
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-Continued

                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Anticipated  future and  existing  cash  resources  of the  Partnership  are not
sufficient   to  pay  existing   liabilities   of  the   Partnership.   However,
substantially all of the existing  liabilities of the Partnership are payable to
the General  Partner and/or its  affiliates.  Though the amounts  payable to the
General Partner and/or its affiliates are contractually  currently payable,  the
Partnership  anticipates that the General Partner and/or its affiliates will not
require the payment of these contractual  obligations until capital reserves are
in excess of the aggregate of then  existing  contractual  obligations  and then
anticipated future foreseeable  obligations of the Partnership.  The Partnership
would be adversely  affected  should the General  Partner  and/or its affiliates
demand current  payment of the existing  contractual  obligations and or suspend
services for this or any other reason.

Method of Accounting for Investments in Limited Partnerships
- ------------------------------------------------------------
The Partnership  accounts for its investments in limited  partnerships using the
equity method of  accounting,  whereby the  Partnership  adjusts its  investment
balance for its share of the Local Limited  Partnerships'  results of operations
and for any  contributions  made and  distributions  received.  The  Partnership
reviews the  carrying  amount of an  individual  investment  in a Local  Limited
Partnership for possible  impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying  amount of such  investment  may not be  recoverable.
Recoverability  of such investment is measured by the estimated value derived by
management,  generally  consisting of the sum of the remaining future Low Income
Housing  Tax  Credits  estimated  to be  allocated  to the  Partnership  and the
estimated  residual value to the Partnership.  If an investment is considered to
be impaired,  the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which
the  carrying  amount of the  investment  exceeds  fair  value.  The  accounting
policies of the Local Limited  Partnerships are generally  consistent with those
of  the  Partnership.  Costs  incurred  by  the  Partnership  in  acquiring  the
investments  are  capitalized  as part of the  investment  account and are being
amortized over 30 years (see Note 2).

Equity in losses of Limited Partnerships for the periods ended December 31, 2005
and 2004 have been recorded by the Partnership  based on Nine Months of reported
results  estimated by management of the Partnership.  Management's  estimate for
the three-month  period is based on either actual unaudited  results reported by
the Local Limited  Partnerships  or historical  trends in the  operations of the
Local Limited  Partnerships.  In subsequent  annual financial  statements,  upon
receiving the actual annual results reported by the Local Limited  Partnerships,
management  reverses its prior estimate and records the actual results  reported
by  the  Local  Limited   Partnerships.   Equity  in  losses  from  the  Limited
Partnerships  allocated to the Partnership are not recognized to the extent that
the  investment  balance would be adjusted below zero. As soon as the investment
balance  reaches  zero,  amortization  of the  related  costs of  acquiring  the
investment are  accelerated  to the extent of losses  available (see Note 2). If
the  Local  Limited   Partnerships  report  net  income  in  future  years,  the
Partnership  will resume applying the equity method only after its share of such
net income  equals the share of net losses not  recognized  during the period(s)
the equity method was suspended.

Distributions  received by limited  partners are accounted for as a reduction of
the investment balance.  Distributions received after the investment has reached
zero are recognized as income.

                                       9

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P. SERIES 1
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-Continued

                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Exit Strategy
- -------------
The IRS  compliance  period for Low Income  Housing  Tax  Credit  properties  is
generally  15 years from  occupancy  following  construction  or  rehabilitation
completion.  WNC was one of the first in the industry to offer investments using
the tax credit.  Now these very first programs are completing  their  compliance
period.

With that in mind, we are continuing our review of the  Partnership's  holdings,
with special  emphasis on the more mature  properties  including those that have
satisfied the IRS compliance requirements. Our review will consider many factors
including  extended  use  requirements  on the  property  (such as those  due to
mortgage  restrictions  or state  compliance  agreements),  the condition of the
property,  and the tax consequences to the limited partners from the sale of the
property.

Upon identifying  those  properties with the highest  potential for a successful
sale, refinancing or syndication, we expect to proceed with efforts to liquidate
those  properties.  Our  objective is to maximize the Limited  Partners'  return
wherever  possible  and,  ultimately,  to wind down  those  funds that no longer
provide tax benefits to Limited  Partners.  However,  Local Limited  Partnership
interests may be disposed at any time by Associates in its discretion.  To date,
no properties in the Partnership have been selected for disposition.

Use of Estimates
- ----------------
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally  accepted in the United States of America requires  management to make
estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets and
liabilities  and disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities at the date of
the  financial  statements,  and the  reported  amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting  period.  Actual results could materially differ from those
estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents
- -------------------------
The Partnership considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities
of three months or less when  purchased to be cash  equivalents.  As of December
31, 2005 and March 31, 2005, the Partnership had no cash equivalents.

Concentration of Credit Risk
- ----------------------------
At December 31,  2005,  the  Partnership  maintained a cash balance at a certain
financial institution in excess of the maximum federally insured amounts.

Net Loss Per Limited Partner Unit
- ---------------------------------
Net loss per limited  partnership  unit is  calculated  pursuant to Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 128,  Earnings Per Share. Net loss per unit
includes no dilution  and is computed  by  dividing  loss  available  to Limited
Partners by the weighted average number of units outstanding  during the period.
Calculation of diluted net loss per unit is not required.

Income Taxes
- ------------
No provision  for income taxes has been recorded in the  accompanying  financial
statements  as any  liability  and/or  benefits for income taxes as income taxes
flows to the partners of the Partnership and is their obligation and/or benefit.
For income tax purposes the Partnership reports on a calendar year basis.

                                       10

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P. SERIES 1
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-Continued

                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, continued
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Revenue Recognition
- -------------------
The  Partnership  is entitled to receive  reporting  fees from the Local Limited
Partnerships.  The  intent  of  the  reporting  fees  is  to  offset  (in  part)
administrative costs incurred by the Partnership in corresponding with the Local
Limited  Partnerships.  Due to the  uncertainty of the collection of these fees,
the Partnership recognizes reporting fees as collections are made.

Reporting Comprehensive Income
- ------------------------------
The  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No. 130,  Reporting
Comprehensive  Income  established  standards  for the  reporting and display of
comprehensive  income (loss) and its components in a full set of general-purpose
financial statements. The Partnership had no items of other comprehensive income
for all periods presented, as defined by SFAS No. 130.

New Accounting Pronouncements
- -----------------------------
As of March 31,  2004,  the  Partnership  adopted FASB  Interpretation  No. 46 -
Revised,  Consolidation  of  Variable  Interest  Entities  ("FIN46R").  FIN  46R
provides  guidance as to when a company should include the assets,  liabilities,
and  activities  of  a  variable   interest  entity  ("VIE")  in  its  financial
statements,   and  when  a  company  should  disclose   information   about  its
relationship  with a VIE. A VIE is a legal structure used to conduct  activities
or hold assets, and a VIE must be consolidated by a company if it is the primary
beneficiary  because a primary  beneficiary absorbs the majority of the entity's
expected losses, the majority of the expected residual returns, or both.

Under FIN 46R, the Local Limited  Partnerships in which the Partnership  invests
are VIEs. However,  management does not consolidate the Partnership's  interests
in these VIE's under FIN46R,  as the  Partnership  is not considered the primary
beneficiary.  Rather,  the  Partnership  currently  records  the  amount  of the
investment in the Local Limited  Partnerships  as an asset in the balance sheet,
and  recognizes  its share of Local  Limited  Partnership  income or loss in the
statement of operations.

The Partnership's balance in its investment in Local Limited Partnerships,  plus
the risk of recapture of tax credits previously recognized on these investments,
represent its maximum  exposure to loss. The  Partnership's  exposure to loss is
mitigated  by  the  condition  and  financial   performance  of  the  underlying
properties,  as well as the  strength of the Local  General  Partners  and their
guarantee against credit recapture.

In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154
(SFAS 154),  "Accounting  Changes and Error Corrections" which provides guidance
on the  accounting  for and  reporting of accounting  changes and  correction of
errors.  This  statement  changes the  requirements  for the  accounting for and
reporting  of a change in  accounting  principle  and  applies to all  voluntary
changes in  accounting  principle.  It also  applies to changes  required  by an
accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not
include  specific  transition  provisions.   This  statement  is  effective  for
accounting  changes and  corrections  of errors made in fiscal  years  beginning
after December 15, 2005. The  Partnership  does not anticipate a material effect
upon the adoption of this statement.

NOTE 2 - INVESTMENTS IN LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS
- --------------------------------------------
As of the periods  presented,  the Partnership had acquired limited  partnership
interests  in  twenty-one  Local  Limited  Partnerships,  each of which owns one
housing  complex,  consisting  of an  aggregate  of  812  apartment  units.  The
respective General Partners of the Local Limited  Partnerships manage the day to
day operations of the entities.  Significant Local Limited Partnership  business
decisions require approval from the Partnership.  The Partnership,  as a limited
partner,  is  generally  entitled  to 99%,  as  specified  in the Local  Limited
Partnership agreements,  of the operating profits and losses, taxable income and
losses and tax credits of the Local Limited Partnerships.

                                       11

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P. SERIES 1
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-Continued

                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 2 - INVESTMENTS IN LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS, continued
- -------------------------------------------------------
The following is a summary of the equity method  activity of the  investments in
Local Limited Partnerships for the periods presented below:
 
Selected  financial  information for the nine months ended December 31, 2005 and
2004 from the unaudited combined condensed  financial  statements of the limited
partnership in which the Partnership has invested is as follows:

12

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P. SERIES 1
                       (A California Limited Partnership)

                     NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-Continued

                For the Quarterly Period Ended December 31, 2005
                                   (unaudited)

NOTE 2 - INVESTMENTS IN LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS, continued
- -------------------------------------------------------
Certain Local Limited  Partnerships have incurred  significant  operating losses
and/or have  working  capital  deficiencies.  In the event  these Local  Limited
Partnerships continue to incur significant operating losses,  additional capital
contributions  by the  Partnership  and/or  the Local  General  Partners  may be
required  to sustain  the  operations  of such Local  Limited  Partnerships.  If
additional  capital  contributions  are not made  when  they are  required,  the
Partnership's  investment in certain of such Local Limited Partnerships could be
impaired, and the loss and recapture of the related tax credits could occur.

NOTE 3 - RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
- -----------------------------------
The Partnership has no officers,  employees,  or directors.  However,  under the
terms of the  Partnership  Agreement the Partnership is obligated to the General
Partner or its affiliates for the following items:

(a)  Annual Asset  Management  Fee. An annual asset  management fee equal to the
     greater amount of (i) $2,000 for each apartment complex,  or (ii) 0.275% of
     gross  proceeds.  The base fee amount  will be adjusted  annually  based on
     changes to the Consumer Price Index.  However,  in no event will the annual
     asset  management  fee  exceed  0.2% of the  invested  assets  of the Local
     Limited  Partnerships,  including the Partnership's  allocable share of the
     mortgages.  Asset  management fees of $31,500 were incurred for each of the
     nine months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. The Partnership  paid $37,500
     and  $30,000  of those  asset  management  fees for the nine  months  ended
     December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

(b)  Subordinated  Disposition Fee. A subordinated  disposition fee is an amount
     equal to 1% of the sales price of real estate sold.  Payment of this fee is
     subordinated to the Limited  Partners  receiving a preferred  return of 16%
     through  December 31, 2004 and 6% thereafter (as defined in the Partnership
     Agreement)  and is payable  only if the General  Partner or its  affiliates
     render services in the sales effort.

(c)  The  Partnership  reimburses  the  General  Partner or its  affiliates  for
     operating expenses incurred on behalf of the Partnership. Operating expense
     reimbursements  were  $39,847  and  $25,456  during the nine  months  ended
     December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The accrued  fees and  advances  due to General  Partner  and/or its  affiliates
consisted of the following:
 
NOTE 4 - PAYABLE TO LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
- ---------------------------------------
Payable  to Limited  Partnerships  represent  amounts,  which are due at various
times based on conditions specified in the Limited Partnership Agreement.  These
contributions  are  payable  in  installments  and  are  due  upon  the  Limited
Partnership achieving certain operating and development benchmarks.

                                       13

Item 2. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

Forward-Looking Statements

With  the  exception  of  the  discussion  regarding   historical   information,
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations"  and  other   discussions   elsewhere  in  this  Form  10-Q  contain
forward-looking  statements.  Such statements are based on current  expectations
subject to uncertainties and other factors,  which may involve known and unknown
risks that could cause actual  results of operations to differ  materially  from
those, projected or implied.  Further,  certain  forward-looking  statements are
based upon assumptions about future events, which may not prove  to be accurate.

Risks and uncertainties inherent in forward-looking  statements include, but are
not  limited  to,  our  future  cash  flows and  ability  to  obtain  sufficient
financing, level of operating expenses, conditions in the Low Income Housing Tax
Credit property market and the economy in general, as well as legal proceedings.
Historical  results are not necessarily  indicative of the operating results for
any future period.

Subsequent  written and oral  forward-looking  statements  attributable to us or
persons  acting on our behalf  are  expressly  qualified  in their  entirety  by
cautionary  statements  in this Form 10-Q and in other reports we filed with the
Securities and Exchange  Commission.  The following discussion should be read in
conjunction  with the condensed  unaudited  Financial  Statements  and the Notes
thereto included elsewhere in this filing.

The following discussion and analysis compares the results of operations for the
three and nine months ended  December  31, 2005 and 2004,  and should be read in
conjunction  with the condensed  financial  statements  and  accompanying  notes
included within this report.

Financial Condition

The Partnership's assets at December 31, 2005 consisted primarily of $133,000 in
cash and aggregate  investments in the twenty-one Local Limited  Partnerships of
$1,033,000.  Liabilities at December 31, 2005 consisted primarily of $163,000 in
accrued asset annual  management fees and reimbursement for expenses paid by the
General Partner and its affiliates.

Results of Operations

Three Months Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Three Months December 31, 2004.
The  Partnership's  net  loss for  three  months  ended  December  31,  2005 was
$(88,000), reflecting an increase of $(49,000) from the net loss experienced for
the three months ended December 31, 2004 of $(39,000).  The increase in net loss
is primarily  due to the  increase in losses from  operations  by  approximately
$(60,000)  to  $(82,000)  for the three  months  ended  December  31,  2005 from
$(22,000) for the three months ended  December 31, 2004.  The increase in losses
from  operations  was  primarily  due to an increase in the  impairment  loss of
$(59,000).  The  impairment  loss is due to the  fact  that  the net  investment
balance exceeded the remaining tax credits along with any residual value in four
limited partnerships. The remaining $(1,000) increase in loss from operations is
due to an $(8,000) increase in legal and accounting  expenses offset by a $2,000
decrease in amortization, other operating expenses which decreased by $3,000 and
distribution  income which  increased  by $2,000.  The increase in the loss from
operations  was offset by a decrease in the equity in losses from Local  Limited
Partnerships by $11,000 to $(6,000) for the three months ended December 31, 2005
from  $(17,000)  for the three months ended  December 31, 2004.  The decrease in
equity in losses of Local Limited  Partnerships  is due to the  Partnership  not
recognizing certain losses of the Local Limited Partnerships, as the investments
in such Local Limited  Partnerships  had reached $0 at December 31, 2005.  Since
the Partnership's  liability with respect to its investments is limited,  losses
in excess of investment are not recognized.

Nine Months Ended  December 31, 2005 Compared to Nine Months Ended  December 31,
2004. The Partnership's net loss for the nine months ended December 31, 2005 was
$(134,000),  reflecting an increase of $(16,000)  from the net loss  experienced
for the nine months ended December 31, 2004 of  $(118,000).  The increase in net
loss is primarily due to the increase in losses from operations by approximately
$(47,000)  to  $(109,000)  for the nine  months  ended  December  31,  2005 from
$(62,000)  for the nine months ended  December 31, 2004.  The increase in losses
from  operations  was  primarily  due  to an  increase  in  impairment  loss  of
$(59,000).  The  impairment  loss is due to the  fact  that  the net  investment
balance exceeded the remaining tax credits along with any residual value in four
limited  partnerships.  In addition to the impairment  loss increase there was a
$5,000 increase in distribution income, $3,000 increase in reporting fee income,
a $4,000 decrease in amortization, a $4,000 decrease in other operating expenses
all offset by $(5,000) increase in legal and accounting  expenses.  The increase
in loss from  operations  was  offset by a  decrease  in the equity in losses of
Local Limited  Partnerships which decreased by $32,000 to $(24,000) for the nine
months ended December 31, 2005 from $(56,000) for the nine months ended December
31, 2004.
                                       14
 
Item 2.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations, continued

The  decrease in equity in losses of Local  Limited  Partnerships  is due to the
Partnership not recognizing certain losses of the Local Limited Partnerships, as
the  investments in such Local Limited  Partnerships  had reached $0 at December
31, 2005. Since the  Partnership's  liability with respect to its investments is
limited, losses in excess of investment are not recognized.

Cash Flows

Nine Months Ended  December 31, 2005 Compared to Nine Months Ended  December 31,
2004. Net cash used during the nine months ended December 31, 2005 was $(59,000)
compared  to net  cash  used by the  nine  months  ended  December  31,  2004 of
$(47,000). The increase of $(12,000) in cash used was due to an increase in cash
used by  operating  activities  of  approximately  $(11,000)  which  included  a
$(18,000)  decrease in accrued fees and expenses due to General  Partner and its
affiliates along with a $(4,000) increase in other operating expenses.

During the nine months ended December 31, 2005, accrued payables,  which consist
primarily  of related  party  management  fees and  advances  due to the General
Partner, decreased by approximately $14,000.

Item 3.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

         NOT APPLICABLE

Item 4.  Procedures and Controls

As of the end of the period covered by this report,  the  Partnership's  General
Partner, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial  Officer of Associates  carried out an evaluation of
the effectiveness of the Fund's "disclosure  controls and procedures" as defined
in  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934  Rule  13a-15  and  15d-15.  Based on that
evaluation,  the Chief  Executive  Officer  and  Chief  Financial  Officer  have
concluded  that  as of  the  end of the  period  covered  by  this  report,  the
Partnership's  disclosure controls and procedures were adequate and effective in
timely  alerting  them  to  material  information  relating  to the  Partnership
required to be included in the Partnership's periodic SEC filings.

Changes  in  internal  controls.  There  were no  changes  in the  Partnership's
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended
December  31,  2005  that  materially  affected,  or are  reasonably  likely  to
materially affect, the Partnership's internal control over financial  reporting.

Part II. Other Information

Item 1.  Legal Proceedings

         NONE

Item 2.  Changes in Securities and Use of Proceeds

         NONE

Item 3.  Defaults Upon Senior Securities

         NONE

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         NONE

Item 5.  Other Information

         NONE

                                       15

Item 6.  Exhibits

31.1     Certification  of the Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-
         15(e)and 15d-15(e), as adopted pursuant to section 302 of the Sarbanes-
         Oxley Act of 2002. (filed herewith)

31.2     Certification of the  Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-
         15(e)and 15d-15(e), as adopted pursuant to section 302 of the Sarbanes-
         Oxley Act of 2002. (filed herewith)

32.1     Section 1350  Certification  of  the  Chief  Executive  Officer. (filed
         herewith)

32.2     Section 1350 Certification  of  the  Chief  Financial  Officer.  (filed
         herewith)

                                       16

Pursuant  to the  requirements  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of  1934,  the
registrant  has duly  caused  this  report  to be  signed  on its  behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

WNC HOUSING TAX CREDIT FUND IV, L.P., Series 1

By:  WNC Tax Credit Partners IV, L.P.       General Partner of the Registrant

By:  WNC & ASSOCIATES, INC.  General Partner of WNC Tax Credit Partners IV, L.P.

By:  /s/ Wilfred N. Cooper Jr.
     -------------------------
Wilfred N. Cooper, Jr.
President and Chief Executive Officer of WNC & Associates, Inc.

Date:  February 17, 2006

By:  /s/ Thomas J. Riha
     ------------------
Thomas J.  Riha,  Senior  Vice  President  - Chief  Financial  Officer  of WNC &
Associates, Inc.

Date: February 17, 2006

17

<EX-31>
 2
 ex311nt41.txt
 EX 31-1 NAT 4-1
 
                                  Exhibit 31-1
                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Wilfred N. Cooper, Jr., certify that:

1.   I have  reviewed  this  quarterly  report on Form 10-Q of WNC  HOUSING  TAX
     CREDIT FUND IV, L.P., Series 1;

2.   Based on my knowledge,  this  quarterly  report does not contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to
     make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such
     statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this quarterly report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information  included  in this  quarterly  report,  fairly  present  in all
     material respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash
     flows of the  registrant  as of, and for,  the  periods  presented  in this
     quarterly  report. As discussed in its cover letter to its annual report on
     Form 10-K for the year ended  March 31,  2005,  WNC Housing Tax Credit Fund
     IV, L.P., Series 1 (the "Partnership") was unable to obtain an audit of its
     financial statements included in such annual report performed in accordance
     with the  standards of the PCAOB.  This was due to the  inability to obtain
     audits of financial statements of the entities in which the Partnership has
     invested (the "Local Limited  Partnerships")  performed in accordance  with
     the  standards  of the  PCAOB.  (Audit  opinions,  which the  Partnership's
     auditors  originally  intended to rely upon in forming their opinion,  were
     obtained from the Local Limited  Partnerships  that are in accordance  with
     generally accepted auditing  standards for the United States,  although not
     in  accordance  with the standards of PCAOB.) At the advice of the SEC, the
     Partnership  filed its  annual  report  on Form 10-K for the year  ended as
     "UNAUDITED."

     The  Partnership  continues to evaluate ways of addressing  this deficiency
     and, together with its auditors,  has discussed  solutions with the SEC and
     the  PCAOB.  To date,  those  solutions  primarily  entail  enhanced  audit
     documentation  required by PCAOB Audit  Standard  No. 3. The  Partnership's
     auditors would have to perform additional procedures related to those Local
     Limited Partnerships in order to complete their audit.

     The  Partnership's   auditors  have  been  engaged  to  perform,  and  have
     performed,  a review of the  Partnership's  interim  financial  information
     included in the Partnership's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
     ended December 31, 2005.

     Despite the  Partnership's  ongoing  efforts to address these matters,  the
     Partnership  at the time of this  filing  is an  untimely  filer due to the
     deficiency in its annual report on Form 10-K;

4. The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I   are  responsible  for
   establishing and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined
   in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15e and 15d-15e)  for  the  registrant and we have:

   (a)  Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,  or  caused  such
        disclosure   controls   and   procedures  to   be  designed   under  our
        supervision,  to  ensure  that  material  information  relating  to  the
        registrant,  including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made  known  to
        us by others within those entities,  particularly during the  period  in
        which this quarterly report is being prepared;

   (b)  Evaluated the  effectiveness of  the  registrant's  disclosure  controls
        and procedures and presented in this  report  our conclusions  about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as  of  the end
        of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

   (c)  Disclosed  in this  report  any  change  in  the  registrant's  internal
        control over financial reporting that occurred  during  the registrant's
        most  recent  fiscal  quarter  that   has  materially   affected,  or is
        reasonably  likely  to  materially  affect,  the  registrant's  internal
        control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying  officer(s) and I have disclosed,  based on
   our most recent evaluation of internal control over  financial reporting,  to
   the registrant's  independent registered public accounting firm and the audit
   committee of the  registrant's  board of directors (or persons performing the
   equivalent functions):

   (a)  All significant  deficiencies and material weaknesses in  the  design or
        operation  of  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  which  are
        reasonably  likely  to  adversely affect in the registrant's  ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

   (b)  Any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves  management or  other
        employees who have a  significant  role  in  the  registrant's  internal
        control over financial reporting.

Date:   February 17, 2006

/s/  Wilfred N. Cooper, Jr.
- ---------------------------
President and Chief Executive Officer of WNC & Associates, Inc.

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 3
 ex321nat41.txt
 EXHIBIT 32-1 NAT 4-1
 
                                  EXHIBIT 32.1

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2003

     In  connection  with the  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q of WNC Housing Tax
Credit  Fund  IV,  L.P.,  Series 1 (the  "Partnership")  for the  quarter  ended
December 31, 2005  as filed with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on the
date hereof (the "Report"),  and pursuant to 18 U.S.C., section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2003, I, Wilfred N. Cooper,
Jr.,  President and Chief Executive Officer of WNC & Associates,  Inc.,  general
partner of the Partnership, hereby certify that:

     1.   The Report fully  complies with the  requirements  of section 13(a) or
          15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  except to the extent
          that such  provisions  require the filing of an opinion of registiered
          public  accountants to accompany the  Partnership's  annual  financial
          statements; and

     2.   The  information  contained  in the  Report  fairly  presents,  in all
          material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of
          the Partnership.

/s/WILFRED N. COOPER, JR.
- -------------------------
Wilfred N. Cooper, Jr.
President and Chief Executive Officer of WNC & Associates, Inc.
February 17, 2006

</EX-32>

<EX-32>
 4
 ex322nt41.txt
 EXHIBIT 32-2 NAT 4-1
 
                                  EXHIBIT 32.2

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2003

     In  connection  with the  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q of WNC Housing Tax
Credit  Fund  IV,  L.P.,  Series 1 (the  "Partnership")  for the  quarter  ended
December 31, 2005  as filed with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on the
date hereof (the "Report"),  and pursuant to 18 U.S.C., section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to section 906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of 2003,  I, Thomas J. Riha,
Chief  Financial  Officer  of WNC &  Associates,  Inc.,  general  partner of the
Partnership, hereby certify that:

     1.   The Report fully  complies with the  requirements  of section 13(a) or
          15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  except to the extent
          that such  provisions  require the filing of an opinion of registiered
          public  accountants to accompany the  Partnership's  annual  financial
          statements; and

     2.   The  information  contained  in the  Report  fairly  presents,  in all
          material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of
          the Partnership.

/s/THOMAS J. RIHA
- -----------------
Thomas J. Riha
Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer of WNC & Associates, Inc.
February 17, 2006

</EX-32>

<EX-31>
 5
 ex312nt41.txt
 EXHIBIT 31-2 NAT 4-1
 
                                 Exhibit 31-2
                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Thomas J. Riha, certify that:

1.   I have  reviewed  this  quarterly  report on Form 10-Q of WNC  HOUSING  TAX
     CREDIT FUND IV, L.P., Series 1;

2.   Based on my knowledge,  this  quarterly  report does not contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to
     make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such
     statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this quarterly report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information  included  in this  quarterly  report,  fairly  present  in all
     material respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash
     flows of the  registrant  as of, and for,  the  periods  presented  in this
     quarterly  report. As discussed in its cover letter to its annual report on
     Form 10-K for the year ended  March 31,  2005,  WNC Housing Tax Credit Fund
     IV, L.P., Series 1 (the "Partnership") was unable to obtain an audit of its
     financial statements included in such annual report performed in accordance
     with the  standards of the PCAOB.  This was due to the  inability to obtain
     audits of financial statements of the entities in which the Partnership has
     invested (the "Local Limited  Partnerships")  performed in accordance  with
     the  standards  of the  PCAOB.  (Audit  opinions,  which the  Partnership's
     auditors  originally  intended to rely upon in forming their opinion,  were
     obtained from the Local Limited  Partnerships  that are in accordance  with
     generally accepted auditing  standards for the United States,  although not
     in  accordance  with the standards of PCAOB.) At the advice of the SEC, the
     Partnership  filed its  annual  report  on Form 10-K for the year  ended as
     "UNAUDITED."

     The  Partnership  continues to evaluate ways of addressing  this deficiency
     and, together with its auditors,  has discussed  solutions with the SEC and
     the  PCAOB.  To date,  those  solutions  primarily  entail  enhanced  audit
     documentation  required by PCAOB Audit  Standard  No. 3. The  Partnership's
     auditors would have to perform additional procedures related to those Local
     Limited Partnerships in order to complete their audit.

     The  Partnership's   auditors  have  been  engaged  to  perform,  and  have
     performed,  a review of the  Partnership's  interim  financial  information
     included in the Partnership's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
     ended December 31, 2005.

     Despite the  Partnership's  ongoing  efforts to address these matters,  the
     Partnership  at the time of this  filing  is an  untimely  filer due to the
     deficiency in its annual report on Form 10-K;

4. The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I   are  responsible  for
   establishing and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined
   in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15e and 15d-15e)  for  the  registrant and we have:

   (a)  Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,  or  caused  such
        disclosure   controls   and   procedures  to   be  designed   under  our
        supervision,  to  ensure  that  material  information  relating  to  the
        registrant,  including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made  known  to
        us by others within those entities,  particularly during the  period  in
        which this quarterly report is being prepared;

   (b)  Evaluated the  effectiveness of  the  registrant's  disclosure  controls
        and procedures and presented in this  report  our conclusions  about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as  of  the end
        of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

   (c)  Disclosed  in this  report  any  change  in  the  registrant's  internal
        control over financial reporting that occurred  during  the registrant's
        most  recent  fiscal  quarter  that   has  materially   affected,  or is
        reasonably  likely  to  materially  affect,  the  registrant's  internal
        control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying  officer(s) and I have disclosed,  based on
   our most recent evaluation of internal control over  financial reporting,  to
   the registrant's  independent registered public accounting firm and the audit
   committee of the  registrant's  board of directors (or persons performing the
   equivalent functions):

   (a)  All significant  deficiencies and material weaknesses in  the  design or
        operation  of  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  which  are
        reasonably  likely  to  adversely affect in the registrant's  ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

   (b)  Any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves  management or  other
        employees who have a  significant  role  in  the  registrant's  internal
        control over financial reporting.

Date:   February 17, 2006

/s/ Thomas J. Riha
- ------------------
Senior Vice-President - Chief Financial Officer of WNC & Associates, Inc.

</EX-31>

