<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060317_10-Q_edgar_data_1102542_0001104659-06-017732_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>919576</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>129694</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>580583</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>30</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-017732.hdr.sgml : 20060317
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060317165119
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-017732
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060317
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060317

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SCO GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001102542
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				870662823
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-29911
		FILM NUMBER:		06696525

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		355 S 520 W, SUITE 100
		CITY:			LINDON
		STATE:			UT
		ZIP:			84042
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8017654999

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		355 S 520 W
		CITY:			LINDON
		STATE:			UT
		ZIP:			84042

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CALDERA INTERNATIONAL INC/UT
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20001101

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CALDERA SYSTEMS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20000104

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 DedA0km3KcizYv2Ml7EzA4v7wKx/4S4QPGD9F8DvJgnA9iRw6HOnIobt2dQo05sI
 F9D/pNi/S6r5eQZtfc4rMg==

 0001104659-06-017732.txt : 20060317

10-Q
 1
 a06-7069_110q.htm
 QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION   

   WASHINGTON,
D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-Q   

(Mark
  one)  

QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
  OF   

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

For the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006   

OR   

o   

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
  15(d) OF   

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

For
  the transition period from             
  to                 

Commission
file number 0-29911   

THE SCO GROUP, INC.   

  (Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Delaware   

87-0662823   

(State
  or other jurisdiction of  

(I.R.S.
  Employer  

incorporation
  or organization)  

Identification
  Number)  

355
South 520 West   

   Suite
100   

   Lindon,
Utah 84042   

  (Address
of principal executive offices and zip code)  

(801)
765-4999   

  (Registrant s
telephone number, including area code)  

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.     YES           NO   o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer.  See definition of  accelerated
filer  and  large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (Check
one):  

Large
  Accelerated Fil  er   o  

Accelerated
  filer   o  

Non-accelerated
  Filer      

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).       YES   o       NO      

As of March 14, 2006, there were 20,993,848 shares of the
Registrant s common stock, $0.001 par value per share, outstanding.   

The SCO Group, Inc.   

Table of Contents   

PART
  I.  

FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Item 1.  

Unaudited Financial Statements  

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January
  31, 2006 and October 31, 2005   

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and
  Comprehensive Loss for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005   

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
  the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005   

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements   

Item 2.   

Management s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

Item 3.   

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Item 4.   

Controls
  and Procedures   

PART II.   

OTHER
  INFORMATION   

Item 1.   

Legal
  Proceedings   

Item 1A.   

Risk Factors   

Item 2.   

Unregistered
  Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds   

Item 6.   

Exhibits   

Signatures   

2  

PART I.    

FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

ITEM 1.   

UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

THE SCO GROUP, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   

   (in thousands, except per share data)   

See
accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  

3  

THE SCO GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND
COMPREHENSIVE LOSS   

   (in thousands, except per share data)   

See
accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  

4  

THE SCO GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

   (in thousands)   

See
accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.  

5  

THE SCO GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

NOTES
TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

   (Unaudited)   

(1)
ORGANIZATION AND DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS   

  The
business of The SCO Group, Inc. (the  Company ) focuses on marketing reliable,
cost-effective UNIX software products and related services for the
small-to-medium sized business market, including replicated site franchises of
Fortune 1000 companies.  The Company has
operations in a number of countries that provide support services to customers
and resellers. During the year ended October 31, 2003, the Company initiated
its SCOsource business to protect its UNIX intellectual property.  The Company acquired certain intellectual
property rights surrounding UNIX and UNIX System V source code from The
Santa Cruz Operation, which changed its name to Tarantella, Inc., and was
subsequently acquired by Sun Microsystems, in May 2001.  

  During
the three months ended January 31, 2006, the Company used cash of $1,379,000 in
its operating activities.  As of January
31, 2006, the Company had a total of $12,018,000 in cash and cash equivalents,
$7,196,000 in available-for-sale marketable securities, and $2,670,000 in
restricted cash, of which $1,758,000 is designated to pay for experts,
consultants and other expenses in the SCO Litigation (as defined herein), if
needed, and the remaining $912,000 of restricted cash is payable to Novell for
its retained binary royalty stream.  

   (2) SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES   

   Basis of Presentation   

  The accompanying
unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company have been
prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities
and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) on a basis consistent with the Company s
audited annual financial statements, and, in the opinion of management, reflect
all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary to
present fairly the financial information set forth therein.  Certain information and footnote disclosures
normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles have been condensed or omitted
pursuant to SEC rules and regulations, although the Company believes that the
following disclosures, when read in conjunction with the audited annual financial
statements and the notes thereto included in the Company s most recent annual
report on Form 10-K, are adequate to make the information presented not
misleading.  Operating results for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of the
results that may be expected for the year ending October 31, 2006.  

   Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial
Statements   

  The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods.  Actual results could differ from these
estimates.  The Company s critical
accounting policies and estimates include, among others, revenue recognition,
allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, 
impairment and useful lives of long-lived assets, litigation reserves,
and valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets.  

6  

Revenue Recognition   

  The Company recognizes
revenue in accordance with Statement of Position ( SOP ) 97-2, as modified by
SOP 98-9.  The Company s revenue has
historically been from three sources: (i) product license revenue, primarily
from product sales to resellers, end users and original equipment manufacturers
( OEMs  (ii) technical support service revenue, primarily from providing
technical support and consulting services to end users; and (iii) revenue from
SCOsource licensing.  

  The Company recognizes
product revenue upon shipment if a signed contract exists, the fee is fixed or
determinable, collection of the resulting receivable is probable and product
returns are reasonably estimable.  

  The majority of the
Company s revenue transactions relate to product-only sales.  On occasion, the Company has revenue
transactions that have multiple elements (such as software products,
maintenance, technical support services, and other services).  For software agreements that have multiple
elements, the Company allocates revenue to each component of the contract based
on the relative fair value of the elements. 
The fair value of each element is based on vendor specific objective
evidence ( VSOE ).  VSOE is established
when such elements are sold separately. 
The Company recognizes revenue when the criteria for product revenue
recognition set forth above have been met. 
If VSOE of all undelivered elements exists, but VSOE does not exist for
one or more delivered elements, then revenue is recognized using the residual
method.  Under the residual method, the
fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of
the license fee is recognized as revenue in the period when persuasive evidence
of an arrangement is obtained assuming all other revenue recognition criteria
are met.  

  The Company recognizes
product revenue from OEMs when the software is sold by the OEM to an end-user
customer.  Revenue from technical support
services and consulting services is recognized as the related services are
performed.  Revenue for maintenance is recognized
ratably over the maintenance period.  

  The Company considers an
arrangement with payment terms longer than the Company s normal business
practice not to be fixed or determinable, and revenue is recognized when the
fee becomes due.  The Company typically
provides stock rotation rights for sales made through its distribution channel
and sales to distributors are recognized upon shipment by the distributor to
end users.  For direct sales not through
the Company s distribution channel, sales are typically non-refundable and
non-cancelable.  The Company estimates
its product returns based on historical experience and maintains an allowance
for estimated returns, which is recorded as a reduction to accounts receivable.  

  The Company s SCOsource
revenue to date has been primarily generated from agreements to utilize the
Company s UNIX source code as well as from intellectual property compliance
agreements.  The Company recognizes
revenue from SCOsource agreements when a signed contract exists, the fee is
fixed or determinable, collection of the receivable is probable and delivery
has occurred.  If the payment terms
extend beyond the Company s normal payment terms, revenue is recognized as the
payments become due.  

   Cash and Cash
Equivalents   

  The Company considers
all investments purchased with original maturities of three or fewer months to
be cash equivalents.  Cash equivalents
were $9,555,000 and $1,528,000 as of January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005,
respectively.  Cash was $2,463,000 and
$2,744,000 as of January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, respectively.  

7  

Available-for-Sale
Marketable Securities   

  Available-for-sale
marketable securities are recorded at fair market value, based on quoted market
prices, and unrealized gains and losses are recorded as a component of
comprehensive loss.  Realized gains and
losses, which are calculated based on the specific-identification method, are
recorded in operations as incurred.  

                  Available-for-sale
marketable securities totaled $7,196,000 as of January 31, 2006.  Any available-for-sale marketable securities
in an unrealized loss position as of January 31, 2006 were not impaired at
acquisition and the decline in fair value is primarily attributable to interest
rate fluctuations.  A decline in the
market value of any available-for-sale marketable security below cost that is
deemed other than temporary results in a charge to earnings and establishes a
new basis for the security.  

   Net Loss per Common Share   

  Basic net loss per
common share ( Basic EPS ) is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding. 
Diluted net income per common share ( Diluted EPS ), if any, is computed
by dividing net income by the sum of the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding and the dilutive potential common share equivalents then
outstanding.  Potential common share
equivalents consist of the weighted average number of shares issuable upon the
exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants to acquire common
stock.  If dilutive, the Company computes
Diluted EPS using the treasury stock method.  

  The excluded
anti-dilutive common share equivalents of 4,874,000 and 3,784,000 as of January
31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, are not included in the computation of Diluted
EPS as their effect would have decreased Diluted EPS.  

        (3) DEFINITE-LIVED INTANGIBLE ASSETS   

  The following table
shows the activity related to definite-lived intangible assets for the three
months ended January 31, 2006 as well as the remaining unamortized balances as
of January 31, 2006 (in thousands):  

Of the $677,000 in
amortization expense, $592,000 was classified as amortization of intangible
assets in operating expenses and the remaining $85,000 was classified as cost
of SCOsource licensing revenue.  

8  

(4) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES   

   Litigation   

   IBM
Corporation   

  On
or about March 6, 2003, the Company filed a civil complaint against IBM in the
United States District Court for the District of Utah, under the title The SCO
Group, Inc. v. International Business Machines Corporation, Civil No.
2:03CV0294.  In this action, the Company
claims, among other things, that IBM breached its UNIX source code licenses
(both the IBM and Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.  Sequent  licenses) by
disclosing restricted information concerning the UNIX source code and
derivative works and related information in connection with its efforts to
promote the Linux operating system.  The
Company s complaint includes, among other things, claims for breach of
contract, unfair competition, tortious interference and copyright
infringement.  As a result of IBM s
actions, the Company is requesting damages in an amount to be proven at trial
and seeking injunctive relief.  

  On
or about March 6, 2003, the Company notified IBM that IBM was not in compliance
with the Company s UNIX source code license agreement and on or about June 13,
2003, the Company delivered to IBM a notice of termination of IBM s UNIX source
code license agreement, which underlies IBM s AIX software.  On or about August 11, 2003, the Company sent
a similar notice terminating the Sequent source code license.  IBM disputes the Company s right to terminate
those licenses.  In the event the Company s
termination of those licenses is valid, the Company believes IBM is exposed to
substantial damages and injunctive relief claims based on its continued use and
distribution of the AIX operating system. 
On June 9, 2003, Novell sent the Company a notice purporting to waive
the Company s claims against IBM regarding its license breaches.  The Company does not believe that Novell had
the right to take any such action relative to the Company s UNIX source code
rights.  

                  On February 27, 2004, the
Company filed a second amended complaint which alleges nine causes of action
that are similar to those set forth above, adds a new claim for copyright
infringement and removes the claim for misappropriation of trade secrets.  IBM filed an answer and fourteen
counterclaims.  Among other things, IBM
has asserted that the Company does not have the right to terminate IBM s UNIX
license and IBM has claimed that the Company has breached the GNU General
Public License and has infringed certain patents held by IBM.  IBM s counterclaims include claims for breach
of contract, violation of the Lanham Act, unfair competition, intentional
interference with prospective economic relations, unfair and deceptive trade
practices, promissory estoppel, patent infringement and a declaratory judgment
claim for non-infringement of copyrights. 
On October 6, 2005, IBM voluntarily dismissed with prejudice its claims
for patent infringement.  

  On
February 9, 2005, the court denied three motions for partial summary
judgment that IBM had filed on the Company s contract claims, on IBM s eighth
counterclaim for copyright infringement, and on IBM s tenth counterclaim for a
declaration of non-infringement of the Company s copyrights.  The court denied each of those motions
without prejudice to IBM s renewing or refiling the motions after discovery is
complete.  The court also denied the
Company s motion to stay or dismiss IBM s tenth counterclaim.  The court ordered that no further dispositive
motions could be filed until the close of discovery.  

  On
July 1, 2005, the court issued a revised Scheduling Order establishing,
among other things, discovery and motion deadlines over the next 18 months with
a five-week jury trial to commence on February 26, 2007.  

9  

Pursuant
to the court s July 1, 2005 Scheduling Order, the Company filed its Interim
Disclosure of Material Misused by IBM on October 28, 2005.  The Company s report includes a matrix that
identifies 217 separate technology disclosures that it contends IBM improperly
made to enhance Linux in violation of one or more contractual prohibitions
governing IBM s use of the Company s proprietary material.  The Company continued to review relevant
materials, including evidence IBM has produced in discovery, and filed an
updated report on December 22, 2005 detailing IBM s misuse of the Company s
proprietary material.  The Company s
December 22, 2005 report includes 294 total disclosures which the Company
claims violate its contractual rights and copyrights.  These reports and the disclosures identified
are the result of analysis from experienced outside technical consultants.  On February 13, 2006, IBM filed a motion with
the court seeking to limit the Company s claims.  IBM argues that of the 294 items identified
by the Company in the December 22, 2005 filing, 201 did not meet the level of
specificity required by the court.  IBM
requested that the Company be limited to 93 items set forth in the December 22,
2005 filing which IBM claims meet the required level of specificity.  The Company disagrees with IBM s motion and
analysis and filed an opposition brief under seal with the court.  Discovery is ongoing in the case as the
parties prepare for trial.  

   Novell, Inc.   

  On
January 20, 2004, the Company filed suit in Utah state court against
Novell, Inc. for slander of title seeking relief for its alleged bad faith
effort to interfere with the Company s ownership of copyrights related to the
Company s UNIX source code and derivative works and the Company s UnixWare
product.  The case is pending in the
United States District Court for the District of Utah under the caption, The
SCO Group, Inc. v. Novell, Inc., Civil No. 2:04CV00139.  In the lawsuit, the Company requested
preliminary and permanent injunctive relief as well as damages.  Through these claims, the Company seeks to
require Novell to assign to the Company all copyrights that the Company
believes Novell has wrongfully registered, prevent Novell from representing any
ownership interest in those copyrights and require Novell to retract or
withdraw all representations it has made regarding its purported ownership of
those copyrights and UNIX itself.  

  Novell
has filed two motions to dismiss claiming, among other things, that Novell s
false statements were not uttered with malice and are privileged under the
law.  The court denied both of Novell s
motions to dismiss.  On July 29, 2005,
Novell filed its Answer and Counterclaims against the Company, asserting
counterclaims for the Company s alleged breaches of the Asset Purchase
Agreement between Novell and the Company s predecessor-in-interest, The Santa
Cruz Operation, Inc., for slander of title, restitution/unjust enrichment, an
accounting related to Novell s retained binary royalty stream, and for
declaratory relief regarding Novell s alleged rights under the Asset Purchase
Agreement.  On December 6, 2005, a
scheduling order was entered by the court setting a schedule of discovery and
motions leading up to a trial in June 2007. 
On or about December 30, 2005, the Company filed a motion for leave to
amend its complaint to assert additional claims against Novell including
copyright infringement, unfair competition and a breach of Novell s limited
license to use the Company s UNIX code. 
Novell has consented to the Company s filing of these additional
claims.  Discovery is commencing in the
case.  

   DaimlerChrysler
Corporation   

  On
or about March 3, 2004, the Company brought suit against DaimlerChrysler
Corporation for its alleged violations of its UNIX license agreement with the
Company.  The lawsuit alleges that
DaimlerChrysler breached its UNIX software agreement by failing to provide an
adequate or timely certification of its compliance with that agreement as the
Company requested. The lawsuit, filed in Oakland County Circuit Court in the
State of Michigan, requests   

10  

the
court to declare that DaimlerChrysler has violated the certification
requirements of its UNIX software agreement, permanently enjoin DaimlerChrysler
from further violations of the UNIX software agreement, issue a mandatory
injunction requiring DaimlerChrysler to remedy the effects of its past
violations of the UNIX software agreement and award the Company damages in an
amount to be determined at trial together with costs, attorneys  fees and any
such other or different relief that the court may deem to be equitable and
just.  

                  In
response to DaimlerChrysler s motion to dismiss, the court granted
DaimlerChrysler s motion as to the substance of DaimlerChrysler s
certification, but denied the motion as to whether the certification was
timely.  Based on this ruling, the
Company filed a motion to stay the case pending the clarification of certain
issues in the IBM litigation.  The court denied
the motion to stay and based on a stipulation of the parties, the court signed
an order of dismissal without prejudice. 
The appellate court has dismissed our appeal of the July 21, 2004
ruling finding that the order was not a final, appealable order.  

   AutoZone, Inc.   

  On
or about March 2, 2004, the Company brought suit against
AutoZone, Inc. for its alleged violations of the Company s UNIX copyrights
through its use of Linux.  The lawsuit
alleges copyright infringement by AutoZone by, among other things, running
versions of the Linux operating system that contain proprietary material from
UNIX System V.  The lawsuit, filed in
United States District Court in Nevada, requests injunctive relief against
AutoZone s further use or copying of any part of the Company s copyrighted
materials and also requests damages as a result of AutoZone s infringement in
an amount to be proven at trial.  In
response to AutoZone s motion to transfer the case to Tennessee or stay the
case, the federal court in Nevada granted AutoZone s motion to stay the case,
with 90-day status reports to the court, and denied without prejudice AutoZone s
motion to transfer the case to Tennessee. 
The court allowed the parties to take limited expedited discovery
relating to the issue of preliminary injunctive relief which discovery was
concluded in May 2005.  

                  The
Company concluded the initial discovery allowed by the court and filed its
report with the court on May 27, 2005. 
Contrary to AutoZone s own statements to the court, the Company found through
discovery, including depositions and other admissions of AutoZone, many
instances of copying of programs containing the Company s OpenServer code.  AutoZone has represented that it has now
removed all of the Company s code and proprietary information it copied or used
in its migration to Red Hat Linux. 
Because AutoZone represents it has removed or otherwise is not using the
Company s code and proprietary information, the Company currently does not
intend to move for a preliminary injunction. 
AutoZone does not admit that it violated the Company s rights or caused
it damage in that migration process, which are still points of dispute between
the parties.  Given the stay issued by
the court in the case, the Company reserves the right to pursue infringement
and damages in the future based on these issues and other issues stayed by the
court.  

   IPO
Class Action Matter   

  The
Company is an issuer defendant in a series of class action lawsuits involving
over 300 issuers that have been consolidated under In re Initial Public
Offering Securities Litigation, 21 MC 92 (SAS). 
The consolidated complaint alleges, among other things, certain
improprieties regarding the underwriters  conduct during the Company s initial
public offering and the failure to disclose such conduct in the registration
statement in violation of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  

  The
plaintiffs, the issuers and the insurance companies have negotiated an
agreement to settle the dispute between the plaintiffs and the issuers.  All parties, including the plaintiffs,   

11  

issuers
and insurance companies, have executed this settlement agreement and the
settlement agreement has been submitted to the court for approval.  If the settlement agreement is approved by
the court, and if no cross-claims, counterclaims or third-party claims are
later asserted, this action will be dismissed with respect to the Company and
its directors.  

  The
Company has notified its underwriters and insurance companies of the existence
of the claims.  Management believes,
after consultation with legal counsel, that the ultimate outcome of this matter
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company s results of operations
or financial position and will not exceed the $200,000 self-insured retention
already paid or accrued by the Company.  

   Red
Hat, Inc.   

  On
August 4, 2003, Red Hat, Inc. filed a complaint against the
Company.  The action is pending in the
United States District Court for the District of Delaware under the case caption,
Red Hat, Inc. v. The SCO Group, Inc., Civil No. 03-772.  Red Hat asserts that the Linux operating
system does not infringe on the Company s UNIX intellectual property rights and
seeks a declaratory judgment for non-infringement of copyrights and no
misappropriation of trade secrets.  In
addition, Red Hat claims the Company has engaged in false advertising in
violation of the Lanham Act, deceptive trade practices, unfair competition,
tortious interference with prospective business opportunities, trade libel and
disparagement.  On April 6, 2004,
the court denied the Company s motion to dismiss this case; however, the court
stayed the case and requested status reports every 90 days regarding the
case against IBM.  Red Hat filed a motion
for reconsideration, which the court denied on March 31, 2005.  The Company intends to vigorously defend this
action.  In the event the stay is lifted
and Red Hat is allowed to pursue its claims, the Company will likely assert
counterclaims against Red Hat.  

   Other
Matters   

  In
April 2003, the Company s former Indian distributor filed a claim in
India, requesting summary judgment for payment of approximately $1,428,000, and
an order that the Company trade in India only through the distributor and/or
give a security deposit until the claim is paid.  The distributor claims that the Company is
responsible to repurchase certain software products and to reimburse the
distributor for certain other operating costs. 
Management does not believe that the Company is responsible to reimburse
the distributor for any operating costs and also believes that the return
rights related to any remaining inventory have lapsed.  The distributor additionally requested that
the Indian courts grant interim relief in the form of attachment of local assets.  These requests for interim relief have failed
in the court, and discovery has commenced and hearings on the main claims have
been held and are ongoing.  The Company
intends to vigorously defend this action.  

  Pursuit and defense of the
above-mentioned matters will be costly, and management expects the costs for
legal fees and related expenses will be substantial.  

  The ultimate outcome or
potential negative effect on the Company s results of operations or financial
position of the Red Hat, Inc., IPO Class Action, or Indian Distributor matters
is neither probable nor estimable.  

  The Company is a party
to certain other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of
business.  Management believes, after
consultation with legal counsel, that the ultimate outcome of these legal
proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the Company s results of
operations or financial position.  

12  

(5)
COMMON STOCK SUBJECT TO RESCISSION   

  The Company believes
certain shares and options granted under its Equity Compensation Plans were
issued without complying with registration or qualification requirements under
federal securities laws and the securities laws of certain states.  As a result, certain Plan participants had a
right to rescind their purchases of shares under the Plans or recover damages
if they no longer own the shares or hold unexercised options, subject to
applicable statutes of limitations. 
Additionally, regulatory authorities may require the Company to pay
fines or impose other sanctions.   

  Accounting Series
Release ( ASR ) No. 268 and Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Topic D-98
require that stock subject to rescission or redemption requirements outside the
control of the Company to be classified outside of permanent equity.  The
exercise of the rescission right is at the holders  discretion, but exercise of
that right may depend in part on the fair value of the Company s common stock
which is outside of the Company s and the holders  control.  Consequently, common stock subject to
rescission is classified as temporary equity.  

  In
December 2005, the Company offered to rescind a total of 337,289 shares of
common stock issued under its 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ) to
current and former employees while they resided in any of California,
Connecticut, Illinois, New Jersey, Utah, Texas or Washington.  These shares represented all of the ESPP
shares the Company issued to residents of these states for which a purchaser
could claim a rescission right.  The
rescission offer was intended to address the Company s rescission liability
relating to its federal and state securities laws compliance issues by allowing
the holders of the shares covered by the rescission offer to rescind the
underlying securities transactions and sell those securities back to the
Company or recover damages, as the case may be.  

  The
rescission offer concluded on January 20, 2006. 
As of that date, 14 offerees had accepted the Company s offer to rescind
the purchase of approximately 7,300 shares. 
The Company made aggregate payments to such offerees of approximately
$41,500, which includes approximately $31,800 for the purchase of the shares
and approximately $9,700 in statutory interest and damages.  As a result of the rescission offer, the
Company believes it has extinguished its state rescission liability and
mitigated its federal rescission liability to anyone to whom the rescission
offer was made for noncompliance with the registration or qualification
requirements of federal and state securities laws as they relate to the shares
issued under the ESPP.  Upon the close of
the rescission offer, the Company reclassified the $1,018,000 of common stock
subject to rescission as additional paid-in capital in permanent equity.  

   (6) STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY   

   Issuance of Common Stock   

  On November 29, 2005,
the Company entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement ( Purchase Agreement )
with several institutional investors and one member of the Company s board of
directors.  On November 30, 2005, the
Company sold to the investors approximately 2,852,000 shares of the Company s
common stock for gross proceeds of approximately $10,005,000.  The costs to date to facilitate the private
placement of the common stock are approximately $100,000.  The shares issued to the institutional
investors were issued at $3.50 per share and the shares issued to the board
member were issued at $3.92 per share. 
Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Company agreed to use its best
efforts to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission ( SEC ) covering the resale of this common stock, and to use its
commercially reasonable efforts to have such registration statement declared
effective.   On December 22, 2005, the
Company filed a registration statement with the Securities   

13  

and
Exchange Commission, and on March 1, 2006, the Company filed a pre-effective
amendment to this registration statement. 
As of the date the Company filed this Form 10-Q, the registration
statement had not been declared effective by the SEC.  

   Equity Plans   

  The
Company has established the 1998 Stock Option Plan (the  1998 Plan ), 1999
Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan (the  1999 Plan ), the 2002 Omnibus Stock
Incentive Plan (the  2002 Plan ) and the 2004 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan (the
 2004 Plan ) for the award of stock options, stock appreciation rights,
restricted stock, phantom stock rights, and stock bonuses to employees,
executive officers, members of the Board of Directors and outside
consultants.  The Compensation Committee
of the Board of Directors has the ability to determine the terms of the option,
the exercise price, the number of shares subject to each option, and the exercisability
of the options.  Under the terms of the
1998, 1999, 2002 and 2004 Plans, options generally expire 10 years from the
date of grant or within 90 days of termination. 
Options granted under these plans generally vest at 25 percent after the
completion of one year of service and then 1/36 per month for the remaining
three years and would be fully vested at the end of four years.   Pursuant to the terms of their grant
agreements, certain of the options granted under these plans may be subject to
accelerated vesting upon a change in control of the Company.  

  The Company has also
established the 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended, which is
designed to allow eligible employees of the Company and its participating
subsidiaries to purchase shares of the Company s common stock, at semi-annual
intervals, through periodic payroll deductions.  

  Prior to October 31,
2005, as permitted under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
No. 123, the Company accounted for its stock option plans following the
recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board ( APB )
Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock issued to Employees,  and related
interpretations.  Accordingly, no
stock-based compensation expense had been reflected in the Company s statements
of operations as all options granted had an exercise price equal to the market
value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant and the related
number of shares granted was fixed at that point in time.  

  In December 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),  Share Based Payment.   This statement revised SFAS No. 123 by
eliminating the option to account for employee stock options under APB No. 25
and requires companies to recognize the cost of employee services received in
exchange for awards of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of
those awards.  

  Effective November 1,
2005, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No.
123(R) using the modified prospective application method.  Under this transition method, the Company
recorded compensation expense on a straight-line basis for the three months
ended January 31, 2006, for: (a) the vesting of options granted prior to
November 1, 2005 (based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance
with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123, and previously presented in the
pro-forma footnote disclosures), and (b) stock-based awards granted subsequent
to November 1, 2005 (based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance
with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R)). 
In accordance with the modified prospective application method, results
for the three months ended January 31, 2005 have not been restated.  

14  

The effect of adopting
SFAS No. 123(R) as of November 1, 2005 for the three months ended January 31,
2006 was to record $401,000 of stock-based compensation expense.    For the three months ended January 31, 2006 and
2005, the Company has allocated stock-based compensation expense to the
following statement of operations and comprehensive loss captions (in
thousands):  

The following pro-forma
information, as required by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation-Transition and Disclosure, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123, 
is presented for comparative purposes and illustrates the effect on net loss
and net loss per common share for the three months ended January 31, 2005 as if
the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123
to stock-based employee compensation prior to November 1, 2005 (in thousands):  

With
respect to stock options granted during the three months ended January 31, 2006
and 2005, the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model are as
follows:    

The
estimated fair value of stock options and ESPP shares are amortized over the
vesting period of the award.  

  During the three months
ended January 31, 2006, the Company granted options to purchase approximately
839,000 shares of common stock with an average exercise price of $3.78 per
share.  None of these stock options were
granted with an exercise price below the quoted market price on the date of
grant.  During the three months ended
January 31, 2006, options to purchase approximately 17,000 shares of common
stock were exercised with an average exercise  

15  

price
of $1.36 per share.  As of January 31,
2006, there were approximately 4,639,000 stock options outstanding with a
weighted average exercise price of $4.11 per share.  

    (7) CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK   

  As of January 31, 2006 and October 31,
2005, the Company had no customers who made up more than 10 percent of the
accounts receivable balance.  

  During the three months
ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, no single customer accounted for more than 10
percent of total revenue.  

    (8) SEGMENT INFORMATION   

  The Company s resources
are allocated and operating results managed to the operating income (loss)
level for each of the Company s segments: UNIX and SCOsource.  Both segments are based on the Company s UNIX
intellectual property.  The UNIX business
sells and distributes UNIX products and services through an extensive
distribution channel and to corporate end-users and the SCOsource business
enforces and protects the Company s UNIX intellectual property.  Segment disclosures for the Company are as
follows (in thousands):  

16  

Intangible assets, which
consist of the Company s reseller channel, trade name and technology, have been
assigned to the Company s UNIX and SCOsource segments and consist of the
following as of January 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005 (in thousands):   

17  

ITEM 2.                          MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

   This Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other parts of this quarterly
report on Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and
uncertainties.  Forward-looking
statements can also be identified by words such as  intends,   anticipates,   expects, 
 believes,   plans,   predicts,  and similar terms.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees
of future performance and our actual results may differ significantly from the
results discussed in the forward-looking statements.  Factors that might cause such differences
include, but are not limited to, those set forth below under  Forward-Looking
Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition 
and Item 1A Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. The following
discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q
and our audited consolidated financial statements included in our annual report
on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and management s discussion and analysis contained
therein.  All information presented
herein is based on the three months ended January 31, 2006.  We assume no obligation to revise or update
any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law.   

Overview   

   Historical Background.     We
originally incorporated as Caldera Systems, Inc., a Utah corporation (as
previously defined,  Caldera Systems ), on August 21, 1998, and reincorporated
as a Delaware corporation on March 6, 2000. 
In March 2000, we completed an initial public offering of our common
stock.    On May 7, 2001, we formed a new holding company
in Delaware under the name of Caldera International, Inc. (as previously
defined,  Caldera International ) to acquire substantially all of the assets
and operations of the server and professional services groups of The Santa Cruz
Operation.  In connection with this
acquisition, Caldera Systems became a wholly owned subsidiary of Caldera
International.    Former
holders of shares and options to purchase shares of Caldera Systems received an
equal number of shares and options to purchase shares in Caldera   International  .  On
May 16, 2003, our stockholders approved our corporate name change to The SCO
Group, Inc.  

   Business Focus   

   UNIX Business.     Our UNIX business serves the needs of small-to-medium
sized businesses, including replicated site franchisees of Fortune 1000
companies, by providing reliable, cost effective UNIX operating systems and
software products to power computers running on Intel architecture.  Our largest source of UNIX business revenue
is derived from existing customers through our worldwide, indirect, leveraged
channel of partners which includes distributors and independent solution
providers.  We have operations in a
number of countries that provide support and services to customers and
resellers.  The other principal channel
for selling and marketing our UNIX products is through existing customers that
have a large number of replicated sites or franchisees.  

  We
access these corporations through their information technology or purchasing
departments with our area sales managers in the United States and through our
reseller channel in countries outside the United States.  In addition, we also sell our operating
system products to original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ).  Our sales of UNIX products and services
during the last several fiscal years have been primarily to pre-existing UNIX
customers and not newly acquired customers. 
Our UNIX business revenue depends significantly on our ability to market
and sell our products to existing customers and to generate upgrades from
existing customers.  

18  

The
following table shows the operating results of the UNIX business for the three
months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (in thousands):  

Revenue from our UNIX business decreased by
$1,482,000, or 17 percent, for the three months ended January 31, 2006 compared
to the three months ended January 31, 2005. 
The revenue from this business has been declining over the last several
quarters primarily as a result of increased competition from alternative
operating systems, particularly Linux. 
We believe the inclusion of our UNIX code and derivative works in Linux
has been a contributor to the decline in our UNIX business because users of
Linux generally do not pay for the operating system itself, but pay for
services and maintenance.  The Linux
operating system competes directly with our OpenServer and UnixWare products
and has taken significant market share from these products.  

  In
an effort to try to sustain profitability in our UNIX business, we have
decreased our operating costs.  Operating
costs for our UNIX business decreased from $7,038,000 for the three months
ended January 31, 2005 to $6,589,000 for the three months ended January 31,
2006.  These cost reductions have
primarily been attributable to reduced headcount and continued operational
efficiencies generated in our UNIX business as well as from the consolidation
of certain facilities.  

  In
our UNIX business, we have reduced the number of full-time equivalent employees
from 165 as of January 31, 2005 to 156 as of January 31, 2006.  We have taken these headcount reductions and
reduced other discretionary spending while still maintaining a worldwide
presence.  Based on our cost-cutting
actions, we anticipate that our UNIX business will continue to generate
positive cash flow throughout the year ending October 31, 2006.  

  The
decline in our UNIX business revenue may be accelerated if industry partners
withdraw their support for our products. 
The decline in our UNIX business and our SCOsource business may cause
industry partners, developers and hardware and software vendors to choose not
to support or certify to our UNIX operating system products.  This would lead to an accelerated decline in
revenue and, potentially, negative cash flow from our UNIX business.  

   SCOsource
Business.     During the year ended October 31, 2003, we
became aware that our UNIX code and derivative works had been inappropriately
included by others in the Linux operating system.  We believe the inclusion of our UNIX code and
derivative works in Linux has been a contributor to the decline in our UNIX
business because users of Linux generally do not pay for the operating system
itself, but pay for services and maintenance. 
The Linux operating system competes directly with our OpenServer and
UnixWare products and has taken significant market share from these products.  

  In
an effort to protect and defend our UNIX intellectual property,   we
initiated our SCOsource business.  Our
SCOsource revenue for the years ended October 31, 2005 and 2004 was
significantly lower than revenue generated during the year ended October 31,
2003, and we   

19  

believe and allege our revenue and related
revenue opportunities have been adversely impacted by Novell s claim of UNIX
copyright ownership, which may have caused potential customers to delay or
forego licensing with us until an outcome in this legal matter has been
reached.  

  The
following table shows the operating results of the SCOsource business for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (in thousands):  

Revenue
from our SCOsource business decreased from $70,000 for the three months ended
January 31, 2005 to $30,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2006.  Revenue in both of the above mentioned
periods was primarily attributable to sales of our SCOsource IP
agreements.  Cost of revenue, which
primarily includes legal and professional fees incurred in connection with the
SCO Litigation, increased from $3,493,000 for the three months ended January
31, 2005 to $4,010,000 for the three months ended January 31, 2006.  This increase was primarily attributable to
work performed by technical and other experts in connection with the SCO
Litigation.   We expect cost of revenue
to decrease in the future, since we have made our final payment to Boies,
Schiller   Flexner LLP, Kevin McBride and Berger Singerman (the  Law Firms )
pursuant to the Engagement Agreement as described in  Liquidity and Capital Resources 
below.   However, we will   continue
to pay for expert, consulting and other expenses through the conclusion of our
litigation with IBM.  

  Because of the
uncertainties related to our SCOsource business, we are unable to estimate the
amount and timing of future SCOsource licensing revenue.  We are unlikely to generate significant
revenue from our SCOsource business unless and until we prevail in our SCO
Litigation.  Additionally, the success of
the SCOsource business may depend on the strength of our intellectual property
rights and claims regarding UNIX, including our claims against Novell and the
strength of our claim that unauthorized UNIX source code and derivative works
are contained in Linux.  

   Critical Accounting Policies   

  Our critical
accounting policies and estimates include the following:  

                                     Revenue recognition;  

                                     Deferred income tax assets and related
valuation allowances;  

                                     Litigation reserves;  

                                     Impairment and useful lives of long-lived
assets; and  

                                     Allowances for doubtful accounts
receivable.  

   Revenue
Recognition   .  We recognize revenue in accordance with
Statement of Position ( SOP ) 97-2, as modified by SOP 98-9.  Our revenue has historically been from three
sources: (i) product   

20  

license revenue, primarily from product sales to
resellers, end users and original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs  (ii)
technical support service revenue, primarily from providing technical support
and consulting services to end users; and (iii) revenue from SCOsource
licensing.  

  We recognize product
revenue upon shipment if a signed contract exists, the fee is fixed or
determinable, collection of the resulting receivable is probable and product
returns are reasonably estimable.  

  The majority of our
revenue transactions relate to product-only sales.  On occasion, we have revenue transactions
that have multiple elements (such as software products, maintenance, technical
support services, and other services). 
For software agreements that have multiple elements, we allocate revenue
to each component of the contract based on the relative fair value of the
elements.  The fair value of each element
is based on vendor specific objective evidence ( VSOE ).  VSOE is established when such elements are
sold separately.  We recognize revenue
when the criteria for product revenue recognition set forth above have been
met.  If VSOE of all undelivered elements
exists, but VSOE does not exist for one or more delivered elements, then
revenue is recognized using the residual method.  Under the residual method, the fair value of
the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the license
fee is recognized as revenue in the period when persuasive evidence of an
arrangement is obtained assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are
met.  

  We recognize product
revenue from OEMs when the software is sold by the OEM to an end-user
customer.  Revenue from technical support
services and consulting services is recognized as the related services are
performed.  Revenue for maintenance is
recognized ratably over the maintenance period.  

  We consider an
arrangement with payment terms longer than our normal business practice, not to
be fixed or determinable and revenue is recognized when the fee becomes
due.  We typically provide stock rotation
rights for sales made through our distribution channel and sales to
distributors are recognized upon shipment by the distributor to end users.  For direct sales not through our distribution
channel, sales are typically non-refundable and non-cancelable.  We estimate our product returns based on
historical experience and maintain an allowance for estimated returns, which is
recorded as a reduction to accounts receivable.  

  Our SCOsource revenue to
date has been primarily generated from agreements to utilize our UNIX source
code as well as from intellectual property compliance agreements.  We recognize revenue from SCOsource
agreements when a signed contract exists, the fee is fixed or determinable,
collection of the receivable is probable and delivery has occurred.  If the payment terms extend beyond our normal
payment terms, revenue is recognized as the payments become due.  

   Deferred
Income Tax Assets and Related Valuation Allowance   .  The amount, and ultimate realization, of our
deferred income tax assets depends, in part, upon the tax laws in effect, our
future earnings, if any, and other future events, the effects of which cannot
be determined.  We have provided a
valuation allowance of $69,239,000 against our entire net deferred income tax
assets as of October 31, 2005.  The
valuation allowance was recorded because of our history of net operating losses
and the uncertainties regarding our future operating profitability and taxable
income.  

   Litigation
Reserves.     We are party to a number of legal matters described in
more detail elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.    Pursuit
and defense of these matters will be costly, and management expects the costs
for legal fees and related expenses will be substantial.  The ultimate outcome or potential negative
effect on our results of operations or   

21  

financial position of the Red Hat, Inc., IPO
Class Action, or Indian Distributor matters is neither probable nor
estimable.  Because these matters are not
probable or estimable, we have not recorded any reserves or contingencies
related to these legal matters.  In the
event that our assumptions used in evaluating these matters as neither probable
nor estimable change in future periods, we may be required to record a
liability for an adverse outcome, which could have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations or financial position.  

   Impairment
and Useful Lives of Long-lived Assets   .  We review our long-lived tangible and
intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.  We evaluate, at each balance sheet date,
whether events and circumstances have occurred which indicate possible
impairment.  The carrying value of a
long-lived asset is considered impaired when the anticipated cumulative
undiscounted cash flows of the related asset or group of assets is less than
the carrying value.  In that event, a
loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the
estimated fair market value of the long-lived asset.  Economic useful lives of long-lived assets
are assessed and adjusted as circumstances dictate.  

  Write-downs of
intangible assets may be necessary if the future fair value of these assets is
less than carrying value.  If the
operating trends for our UNIX or SCOsource businesses continue to decline, we
may be required to record an impairment charge in a future period related to
the carrying value of our long-lived assets.  

   Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts Receivable   .  We offer
credit terms on the sale of our products to a majority of our customers and
require no collateral from these customers. 
We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers  financial
condition and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our
historical collection experience and expected collectibility of all accounts
receivable and apply these policies consistently.  Our allowance for doubtful accounts
receivable, which is determined based on our historical experience and a
specific review of customer balances, was $136,000 as of January 31, 2006.  Our past experience has resulted in minimal
differences from the actual amounts provided for bad debts and our recorded
estimates.  However, our actual bad debts
in future periods may differ from our current estimates and the differences may
be material, w  hich may have an adverse
impact on our future accounts receivable and cash position.  

22  

Results of Operations   

                            The following table presents our
results of operations for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 (in
thousands):  

THREE
MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2006 AND 2005   

    Revenue    

Revenue
for the three months ended January 31, 2006 decreased by $1,522,000, or 17%,
from the three months ended January 31, 2005. 
This decrease was primarily attributable to a continued decline in our
UNIX business as a result of continued competitive pressure from competing
operating systems, particularly Linux.  

  Revenue
generated from our UNIX business and SCOsource business is as follows:  

The
decrease in revenue in the UNIX business of $1,482,000 for the three months
ended January 31, 2006 compared to the three months ended January 31, 2005 was
primarily attributable   

23  

to
continued competition from other operating systems, particularly Linux.  We anticipate that for the remainder of the
year ending October 31, 2006 our UNIX business and the related revenue from the
UNIX business will face significant competition from Linux and other operating
systems.  

  Sales
of our UNIX products and services during the three months ended January 31,
2006 were primarily to pre-existing customers. 
Our UNIX business revenue depends significantly on our ability to market
our products to existing customers and to generate upgrades from existing
customers.  Our UNIX revenue may be lower
than currently anticipated if we are not successful with our existing customers
or if we lose the support of any of our existing hardware and software vendors
or our key industry partners withdraw their marketing and certification support
or direct their support to our competitors.  

   Products Revenue   

Our
products revenue consists of software licenses for UNIX products such as
OpenServer and UnixWare, as well as sales of UNIX-related products.  Products revenue also includes revenue
derived from OEMs, distribution partners and large accounts.  We rely heavily on our two-tier distribution
channel and any disruption in our distribution channel could have an adverse
impact on future revenue.  

  The
decrease in products revenue of $1,304,000, or 18%, for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 compared to the three months ended January 31, 2005 was
primarily   attributable to decreased sales of OpenServer, UnixWare and other products
primarily resulting from increased competition in the operating system market,
particularly from Linux.  

  Our
products revenue was derived primarily from sales of our OpenServer and
UnixWare products.  Other products
revenue consists mainly of product maintenance and other UNIX-related
products.  Revenue for these products was
as follows:  

The
decreases in revenue for OpenServer and UnixWare are primarily the result of
continued competition from other operating systems, particularly Linux.  The decrease in other products revenue is
primarily attributable to decreased sales of product maintenance due to fewer
customers renewing or ordering product maintenance.  

24  

SCOsource
Licensing Revenue   

We
initiated our SCOsource business for the purpose of protecting and defending our
intellectual property rights in our UNIX source code and derivative works.  SCOsource licensing revenue was $30,000 for
the three months ended January 31, 2006 compared to $70,000 for the three
months ended January 31, 2005.  

  We
are unable to predict the amount and timing of future SCOsource licensing
revenue, and if generated, the revenue will be sporadic.  

   Services Revenue      

Services
revenue consists primarily of technical support fees, engineering services
fees, professional services fees and consulting fees.  These fees are typically charged and invoiced
separately from UNIX products sales.  The
decrease in services revenue of $178,000, or 12%, for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2005, was
primarily attributable to a decrease in the dollar amount of support and
engineering services fees as well as to the decrease in products revenue.  

  The
majority of our support and professional services revenue continues to be
derived from services for UNIX-based operating system products.  Our future level of services revenue depends
in part on our ability to generate UNIX products revenue from new customers as
well as to renew annual support and services agreements with existing UNIX
customers.  

   Cost of Products Revenue   

Cost
of products revenue consists of manufacturing costs, royalties to third-party
vendors, technology costs and overhead costs. 
Cost of products revenue decreased by $60,000, or 9%, for the three
months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the three months ended January 31,
2005.  This decrease in the dollar amount
of cost of products revenue was primarily attributable to lower products
revenue as margins did not vary considerably.  

  For
the remaining quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006, we expect the
dollar amount of our cost of products revenue to be generally consistent with
the cost of products revenue incurred during the three months ended January 31,
2006 and that cost of products revenue as a percent of products revenue for the
remaining quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006 will be generally
consistent with that incurred during the three months ended January 31, 2006.  

25  

Cost of
SCOsource Licensing Revenue       

Cost
of SCOsource licensing revenue includes legal and professional fees incurred in
connection with our SCO Litigation, the salaries and related personnel costs of
SCOsource employees, and an allocation of corporate costs.  

  Cost
of SCOsource licensing revenue increased by $517,000, or 15%, during the three
months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the three months ended January 31,
2005.  The increase in costs for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 compared to the three months ended January
31, 2005 was primarily attributable to increased legal costs for expert and
technical consultants incurred in connection with our SCO Litigation.  

  We anticipate that the dollar amount of our cost of
SCOsource licensing revenue for the remaining quarters of the year ending
October 31, 2006 will be lower than the costs incurred for the three months
ended January 31, 2006 as we made our final $2,000,000 payment on December 1,
2005 that was due to the Law Firms.  We
will continue to make payments for expert, consulting and other fees.    However, future legal fees may include
contingency payments made to the Law Firms as a result of a settlement,
judgment, or a sale of our Company, which could cause the cost of SCOsource
licensing revenue for any of the remaining quarters of the year ending October
31, 2006 to be higher than the costs incurred for the three months ended
January 31, 2006.  

   Cost of Services Revenue      

Cost
of services revenue includes the salaries and related personnel costs of employees
delivering services revenue as well as third-party service agreements.  Cost of services revenue decreased by
$112,000, or 15%, for the three months ended January 31, 2006 compared to the
three months ended January 31, 2005. 
This decrease   was attributable to reduced numbers of employees
and related costs and the elimination of certain third-party support contracts.  

  For
the remaining quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006, we expect the
dollar amount of our cost of services revenue to be generally consistent with
the cost of services revenue incurred during the three months ended January 31,
2006 and that cost of services revenue as a percent of services revenue for the
remaining quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006 will be generally consistent
with that incurred during the three months ended January 31, 2006.  

   Sales and Marketing   

Sales
and marketing expenses consist of the salaries, commissions and other personnel
costs of employees involved in the revenue generation process, as well as
advertising and corporate allocations. 
The decrease in sales and marketing expenses of $256,000, or 9%, for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 compared with the three months ended
January 31, 2005   

26  

was
primarily   attributable to decreased spending on co-operative advertising and lower
premises costs for our international sales offices.  Included in sales and marketing expenses for
the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 was $68,000 and $7,000,
respectively, for stock-based compensation. 
Our sales and marketing full-time equivalent employees increased from 50
as of January 31, 2005 to 53 as of January 31, 2006.  

  For
the remaining quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006, we anticipate that
the dollar amount of sales and marketing expenses will be generally consistent
with that incurred during the three months ended January 31, 2006.  

   Research and Development   

Research
and development expenses consist of the salaries and benefits of software
engineers, consulting expenses and corporate allocations.  Research and development expenses decreased
by $217,000, or 10%, for the three months ended January 31, 2006 compared with
the three months ended January 31, 2005, which was primarily attributable to
decreased personnel and personnel-related costs.  Included in research and development expenses
for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 was $20,000 and $8,000,
respectively, of stock-based compensation. 
Our research and development full-time equivalent employees decreased
from 55 as of January 31, 2005 to 49 as of January 31, 2006.  

  For
the remaining quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006, we anticipate that
the dollar amount of research and development expenses will be generally
consistent with that incurred during the three months ended January 31, 2006.  

   General and Administrative   

General
and administrative expenses consist of the salaries and benefits of finance,
human resources, and executive management and expenses for professional
services and corporate allocations. 
General and administrative expenses decreased by $171,000, or 10%,
during the three months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the three months
ended January 31, 2005.  The decrease in
general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to lower
personnel and related costs and decreased professional service fees attributed
to accounting, auditing and legal work, offset, in part, by stock-based
compensation.  Included in general and
administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005
was $246,000 and $0, respectively, of stock-based compensation.  Our general and administrative full-time
equivalent employees decreased from 31 as of January 31, 2005 to 27 as of January
31, 2006.  

  For
the remaining quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006, we anticipate that
the dollar amount of general and administrative expenses will be generally
consistent to that incurred during the three months ended January 31, 2006.  

27  

Amortization of Intangibles      

During the three months
ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, we expensed $592,000 and $593,000,
respectively, for the amortization of intangible assets with definite lives.  

   Equity
in Income (Loss) of Affiliate   

  We account for our
ownership interests in companies in which we own at least 20 percent and less
than 50 percent using the equity method of accounting.  Under the equity method, we record our
portion of the entities  net income or net loss in our consolidated statements
of operations.  As of January 31, 2006,
the carrying value of our investments was $599,000 and was related to our 30
percent ownership in a Chinese company.  

  During
the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, we recorded $(8,000) and
$53,000, respectively, that related to equity in income (loss) of the Chinese
company.  

   Other
Income (Expense), net   

  Other
income (expense) consisted of the following components for the three months
ended January 31, 2006 and 2005:  

Interest
income increased by $115,000 from the three months ended January 31, 2005 as
compared to the three months ended January 31, 2006 and was primarily
attributable to higher interest rates earned on our cash and available-for-sale
marketable securities balances as well as higher cash and available-for-sale
marketable securities balances.   The
higher cash balance is primarily attributable to our recently completed financing
described in Note 6 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

  The
decrease in other income (expense), net, of $479,000 was primarily attributable
to the collection of a $500,000 note receivable from Vintela, Inc. during the
three months ended January 31, 2005.  

   Provision for Income Taxes   

  The provision for income taxes was $87,000 for the
three months ended January 31, 2006 and $114,000 for the three months ended
January 31, 2005.  Our provision for income taxes is
primarily related to earnings in foreign subsidiaries as well as from
withholding taxes on revenue generated in certain foreign locations.  

   Liquidity
and Capital Resources   

                  Our cash and cash equivalents
balance increased from $4,272,000 as of October 31, 2005 to $12,018,000 as of
January 31, 2006.  During this same time
period, our investment in available-for-sale marketable securities increased
from $6,165,000 to $7,196,000.  Our
working capital also   

28  

increased
from $8,669,000 as of October 31, 2005 to $15,411,000 as of January 31,
2006.  All of these increases were
attributable to the issuance of approximately 2,852,000 shares of our common
stock for net proceeds of approximately $9,905,000 in November 2005.  

  Total
cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale marketable securities were
$19,214,000 as of January 31, 2006.  As of
January 31, 2006, we also had $2,670,000 of restricted cash, of which
$1,758,000 is set aside to cover expert and other costs related to our SCO
Litigation and $912,000 is set aside for royalties payable to Novell.  

  We intend to use the
cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale marketable securities as of   January  
31, 200  6  
to pursue our SCO Litigation and to run our UNIX business.  

  Our net cash used in
operating activities during the three months ended January 31, 2006 was
$1,379,000 and was attributable to a net loss of $4,581,000, non-cash items of
$1,170,000 and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $2,032,000.  

  Our
net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended January 31,
2005 was $16,596,000.    Cash   used in operating activities for the
three months ended January 31, 2005 was attributable to a net loss of
$2,961,000, non-cash expenses of $746,000 and changes in operating assets and
liabilities of $14,381,000.  

  Our investing activities
have historically consisted of equipment purchases, investing in strategic
partners and the purchase and sale of available-for-sale marketable securities.  

  During the three months
ended January 31, 2006, cash used in investing activities was $1,100,000, which
was primarily a result of purchases of available-for-sale marketable securities
of $1,031,000, and purchases of equipment of $69,000.  

  During the three months
ended January 31, 2005, cash provided by investing activities was $12,765,000,
which was primarily a result of sales, net of purchases, of available-for-sale
marketable securities, of $12,810,000, which was offset, in part, by purchases
of property and equipment of $45,000.  

  Our financing activities
provided $10,197,000 of cash during the three months ended January 31,
2006.  The primary sources of cash were
the net proceeds from the issuance of approximately 2,852,000 shares of our
common stock for $9,905,000, the exercise of options to acquire common stock of
$23,000 and proceeds of $301,000 received from the sale of common stock through
our ESPP, offset, in part, by the repurchase of shares of our common stock made
in connection with the completion of our rescission offer of $32,000.  

  Our financing activities
provided $571,000 of cash during the three months ended January 31, 2005 and
consisted primarily of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options of
$198,000 and proceeds from the purchase of shares of common stock by our
employees through our ESPP of $373,000.  

  Our net accounts
receivable balance decreased from $6,343,000 as of October 31, 2005 to
$4,917,000 as of January 31, 2006, primarily as a result of lower invoicing and
revenue generated during the three months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to
the three months ended October 31, 2005. 
The majority of our accounts receivable are current and our allowance
for doubtful accounts was $136,000 as of January 31, 2006, which represented
approximately 3 percent of our gross accounts receivable balance.  This percentage of gross accounts receivable
is consistent with our experience in prior periods, and we expect this trend to
continue.  Our write-offs of
uncollectible accounts during the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005
were not significant.  

29  

On
October 31, 2004, we entered into an engagement agreement (the  Engagement
Agreement ) with the Law Firms.  The
Engagement Agreement supercedes and replaces the original engagement agreement
that was entered into in February 2003. 
The Engagement Agreement governs the relationship between us and the Law
Firms in connection with their representation of us in the SCO Litigation,
through the end of our current litigation with IBM.  Our purpose in entering into this Engagement
Agreement was to limit the cash expenditures needed to pursue the SCO
Litigation.  The Engagement Agreement
provides for the payment of approximately $26,000,000 for all attorneys  fees
in connection with the SCO Litigation through the end of our current litigation
with IBM and the escrow of at least $5,000,000 for the payment of any expert,
consulting and other expenses.  As of   January
31, 2006, we had paid the entire $26,000,000. 
  As
of January 31, 2006, $1,758,000 remained in the escrow account and was
classified as a component of restricted cash. 
  In the event that we
exhaust this remaining balance, we will continue to pay for expert, consulting
and other expenses through the conclusion of our litigation with IBM.  

  In
addition to the cash expenditures mentioned above, we must also pay one or more
contingency fees upon any amount we or our stockholders may receive as a result
of a settlement, judgment, or a sale of our Company.  The contingency fee amounts payable to the
Law Firms will be, subject to certain credits and adjustments, as follows:  

                         33 percent of any aggregate recovery
amounts received up to $350,000,000;  

                         plus 25 percent of any aggregate recovery
amounts above $350,000,000 but less than or equal to $700,000,000;  

                         plus 20 percent of any aggregate recovery
amounts in excess of $700,000,000.  

  The
Engagement Agreement specifically provides that, except for the compensation
obligations specifically described above, we will not be obligated to pay any
legal fees, whether hourly, contingent or otherwise, to the Law Firms, or any
other law firms that may be engaged by the Law Firms, in connection with the
SCO Litigation through the end of the current litigation between us and IBM,
including any appeals.  

  We
have entered into operating leases for our corporate offices located in the
United States and our international sales offices.  We have commitments under these leases that
extend through the year ending October 31, 2008.  

  The
following table summarizes our contractual operating lease obligations as of
January 31, 2006:   

As of January 31, 2006,
we did not have any long-term debt obligations, purchase obligations, other
long-term liabilities or material capital lease obligations.  

  Our ability to reduce
costs to offset revenue declines in our UNIX business is limited because of
contractual commitments to maintain and support our existing UNIX
customers.    This decline in our UNIX business may be
accelerated if industry partners withdraw their support as a result of the SCO
Litigation.  In addition, the SCO
Litigation may cause industry partners, developers and hardware and software
vendors to choose not to support or certify to our UNIX operating system
products.  This would lead to an
accelerated decline in our UNIX products and services revenue.    If
our UNIX products and services revenue is less than expected, our liquidity
will be adversely impacted.  

30  

In the event that cash
required to fund operations, the SCO Litigation and strategic initiatives
exceeds our current cash resources and cash generated from operations, we will
be required to reduce costs and perhaps raise additional capital.  We may not be able to reduce costs in a
manner that does not impair our ability to maintain our UNIX business and
pursue the SCO Litigation.  We may also
not be able to raise capital for any number of reasons including those listed
under Item 1A Risk Factors.  If
additional equity financing is available, it may not be available to us on
attractive terms and may be dilutive to our existing stockholders.  In addition, if our stock price declines, we
may not be able to access the public equity markets on acceptable terms, if at
all.  Our ability to effect acquisitions
for stock would also be impaired.  

    Forward-Looking Statements and Factors That May Affect
Future Results and Financial Condition     

    With the exception of historical
facts, the statements contained in Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations are  forward-looking statements 
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
which reflect our current expectations and beliefs regarding our future results
of operations, performance and achievements. These statements are subject to
risks and uncertainties and are based upon assumptions and beliefs that may or
may not materialize.  These
forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements
concerning:    

                                     Our belief that the future success of our
SCOsource initiatives will depend on our ability to protect our intellectual
property;  

                                     Our intention to vigorously defend legal
claims and counterclaims brought against us by others;  

                                     Our intention to continue to pursue the
SCO Litigation;  

                                     Our expectation that our UNIX business
will generate positive cash flow during the year ending October 31, 2006;  

                                     Our belief that our allowance for
doubtful accounts receivable will remain consistent with our prior experience;  

                                     The strength of our intellectual property
rights and contractual claims regarding UNIX generally and specifically the
strength of our claim that unauthorized UNIX source code and derivatives of
UNIX source code are prevalent in Linux;  

                                     Our belief that competition from Linux
will continue during the year ending October 31, 2006 and future periods;  

                                     Our expectation that we will continue to
be unable to predict the amount and timing of SCOsource licensing revenue, and if
generated, the revenue will be sporadic;  

                                     Our expectation that future services
revenue will depend in part on our ability to generate UNIX products revenue
from new customers as well as the renewal of annual support and services
agreements from existing UNIX customers;  

                                     Our expectation for the remaining
quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006 that the dollar amount of our cost
of products revenue and as a percent of products revenue will be generally
consistent to that generated during the three months ended January 31, 2006;  

                                     Our expectation for the remaining
quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006 that the dollar amount of our cost
of services revenue and as a percent of services revenue will be generally
consistent to that generated during the three months ended January 31, 2006;  

31  

Our expectation for the remaining
quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006 that the dollar amount of our
sales and marketing expenses will be generally consistent to that generated
during the three months ended January 31, 2006;  

                                     Our expectation for the remaining
quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006 that the dollar amount of our research
and development expenses will be generally consistent to that generated during
the three months ended January 31, 2006;  

                                     Our expectation for the remaining
quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006 that the dollar amount of our
general and administrative expenses will be generally consistent to that
generated during the three months ended January 31, 2006;  

                                     Our expectation for the remaining
quarters of the year ending October 31, 2006 that the cost of SCOsource
licensing revenue will be less than that generated during the three months
ended January 31, 2006, exclusive of any contingent payments; and  

                                     Our belief that certain legal actions to
which we are a party will not have a material adverse effect on us.  

  We
wish to caution readers that our operating results are subject to various risks
and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and outcomes to differ
materially from those discussed or anticipated, including the success of our
SCOsource business, competition from other operating systems, particularly
Linux, the amount and timing of SCOsource licensing revenue, our ability to
enhance our UNIX operating systems and maintain our UNIX business, and the
factors set forth in  Item 1A Risk Factors .  We also wish to advise readers not to place
any undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this report,
which reflect our beliefs and expectations only as of the date of this
report.  We assume no obligation to
update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or
circumstances or any changes in our beliefs or expectations, other than as
required by law.  

     ITEM
3.                          QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
MARKET RISK   

   Foreign Currency Risk.     We
have foreign offices and operations in Europe and Asia.  As a result, a portion of our revenue is
derived from sales to customers outside the United States.  Our international revenue is denominated in
U.S. dollars, Euros and United Kingdom Pounds. 
Most of the operating expenses related to our foreign-based operations
are denominated in foreign currencies and therefore operating results are
affected by changes in the U.S. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign
currencies such as the Euro, among others. 
If the U.S. dollar further weakens compared to the Euro, our operating
expenses for foreign operations will be higher when translated back into U.S.
dollars.  Our revenue can also be
affected by general economic conditions in the United States, Europe and other
international markets.  Our results of
operations may be affected in the short term by fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates.  

   Interest Rate Risk.     The
primary objective of our cash management strategy is to invest available funds
in a manner that assures maximum safety and liquidity and maximizes yield
within such constraints.  We believe that
a hypothetical movement in interest rates, either up or down, would not have a
material adverse impact on our cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale
marketable securities.  We do not borrow
money for short-term investment purposes.  

   Investment Risk.     We
have invested in equity instruments of privately held and public companies in
the technology industry for business and strategic purposes.  Investments are accounted for under the cost
method if our ownership is less than 20 percent and we are not able to exercise
influence over operations.  Our
investment policy is to regularly review the assumptions and operating
performance of these companies and to record impairment losses   

32  

when events and circumstances indicate that
these investments may be impaired.  As of
January 31, 2006, our investments balance totaled approximately $599,000 and
consisted solely of our investment in a 30% owned Chinese company.  

  The stock market in
general, and the market for shares of technology companies in particular, has
experienced price fluctuations.  In
addition, factors such as new product introductions by our competitors or
developments in the SCO Litigation may have a significant impact on the market
price of our common stock.  Furthermore,
quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our results of operations may have a
significant impact on the market price of our common stock.  These conditions could cause the price of our
common stock to fluctuate substantially over short periods of time.  

     ITEM
4.                          CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   

   Evaluation of disclosure controls
and procedures.     Under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated the effectiveness of the design and
operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule
13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act )).  Based upon that evaluation, the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of
the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective.  

   Changes in internal control over
financial reporting.     During the most recent fiscal quarter covered
by this report, there has been no change in our internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting.  

     PART
II.                        OTHER     INFORMATION   

     ITEM 1.                        LEGAL     PROCEEDINGS   

   IBM Corporation   

  On February 13, 2006, IBM filed a motion
with the Court seeking to limit our claims. 
IBM argues that of the 294 items identified by us in our December 22,
2005 filing, 201 did not meet the level of specificity required by the
Court.  IBM requested that we be limited
to 93 items set forth in the December 22, 2005 filing which IBM claims meet the
required level of specificity.  We
disagree with IBM s motion and analysis and filed an opposition brief under
seal with the Court.  

     ITEM 1A.                       RISK FACTORS   

  Investing
in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other
information contained in this Form 10-Q, you should consider the following
risk factors before investing in our securities.  

   We do
not have a history of profitable operations.   

  Our
year ended October 31, 2003 was the first full year we were profitable in
our operating history.  Our profitability
for the year ended October 31, 2003 resulted primarily from our SCOsource
business.  For the years ended October
31, 2005 and 2004, we incurred net losses applicable to common stockholders of
$10,726,000 and $16,227,000, respectively, and for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 we incurred a net loss of $4,581,000.  As of January 31, 2006, our accumulated
deficit was $239,523,000.  

  If
our revenue from the sale of our UNIX products and services continues to
decline, we will need to further reduce operating expenses to generate positive
cash flow. We may not be able to further reduce operating expenses without
damaging our ability to support our existing UNIX business. Additionally, we
may not be able to achieve profitability through additional cost-cutting
actions.  

33  

Our
UNIX products and services revenue has declined over the last several years
primarily as a result of continued competition from alternative operating
systems, particularly Linux. In our results of operations, we recognize revenue
from agreements for support and maintenance contracts and other long-term
contracts that have been previously invoiced and are included in deferred
revenue. Our future UNIX revenue may be adversely impacted and may continue to
decline if we are unable to replenish these deferred revenue balances with
long-term maintenance and support contracts or replace them with other
sustainable revenue streams. If we are unable to generate positive cash flow
and profitable operations, our business will be adversely impacted.  

   We may
not prevail in our SCO Litigation, which may adversely affect our ability to
continue in business.   

  We
continue to pursue the SCO Litigation and believe in the merits of our
cases.  In our action against IBM, we
seek damages for claims generally relating to our allegation that IBM has
inappropriately used and distributed our UNIX source code and derivative works
in connection with its efforts to promote the Linux operating system.  IBM has responded to our claims and brought
counterclaims against us asserting generally that we do not have the right to
assert claims based on our ownership of UNIX intellectual property against IBM
or others in the Linux market.  Discovery
is continuing in the case.  If we do not
prevail in our action against IBM, or if IBM is successful in its counterclaims
against us, our business and results of operations would be materially harmed
and we may not be able to continue in business. 
The litigation with IBM and others will be costly, and our costs for
legal fees and related expenses have been and will continue to be substantial
and may exceed our capital resources. 
Additionally, the market price of our common stock may be negatively
affected as a result of developments in our legal action against IBM that may be,
or may be perceived to be, adverse to us.  

  As
a result of the SCO Litigation, participants in the Linux marketplace and
others affiliated with IBM or sympathetic to the Linux movement have taken
actions attempting to negatively affect our business and our SCOsource
efforts.  Linux proponents have taken a
broad range of actions against us, including, for example, attempting to
influence participants in the markets in which we sell our products to reduce
or eliminate the amount of our products and services they purchase from
us.  We expect that similar efforts
likely will continue.  There is a risk
that additional participants in our marketplace will negatively view the SCO
Litigation, and we may lose support from such participants.  Any of the foregoing could adversely affect
our position in the marketplace, our results of operations and our stock price
and our ability to stay in business.  

  As
a response to our claim that our UNIX source code and derivative works have
inappropriately been included in Linux, Novell has publicly asserted its belief
that it owns certain copyrights in our UNIX source code, and it has filed 15
copyright applications with the United States Copyright Office related to
UNIX.  Novell has claimed to have
retained rights related to UNIX source code licenses, including the license
with IBM.  Novell asserts it has the
right to take action on behalf of SCO in connection with such licenses,
including termination rights.  Novell has
purported to veto our termination of the IBM, Sequent and SGI licenses.  We have asserted that we obtained the UNIX
business, source code, claims and copyrights when we acquired the assets and
operations of the server and professional services groups from The Santa Cruz
Operation in May 2001, which had previously acquired all such assets and
rights from Novell in 1995 pursuant to an asset purchase agreement, as
amended.  In January 2004, in
response to Novell s actions, we brought suit against Novell for slander of
title seeking relief for Novell s alleged bad faith effort to interfere with
our rights related to our UNIX source code and derivative works and our
UnixWare products.  Novell twice
unsuccessfully sought to have the case dismissed.  

34  

On
July 29, 2005, Novell filed its Answer and Counterclaims against us, asserting
counterclaims for our alleged breaches of the Asset Purchase Agreement between
Novell and our predecessor-in-interest, The Santa Cruz Operation, Inc., for
slander of title, restitution/unjust enrichment, an accounting related to
Novell s retained binary royalty stream, and for declaratory relief regarding
Novell s alleged rights under the Asset Purchase Agreement.  On or about December 30, 2005, we filed a
motion for leave to amend our complaint to assert additional claims against
Novell, including copyright infringement, unfair competition and a breach of
Novell s limited license to use our UNIX source code.  

  Notwithstanding
our assertions of full ownership of critical UNIX-related intellectual property
rights, as set forth above, including copyrights, and even if we are successful
in our legal action against Novell and end users such as AutoZone and
DaimlerChrysler, the efforts of Novell and the other Linux proponents described
above may cause further damage to our business including our ability to
monetize our UNIX assets.  These efforts
of Linux proponents also may increase the negative view some participants in
our marketplace have regarding our SCO Litigation and may contribute to
creating confusion in the marketplace about the validity of our claim that the
unauthorized use of our UNIX source code and derivative works in Linux violates
our contracts and copyrights.  Increased
negative perception and potential confusion about our claims in our marketplace
could impede our continued pursuit of the SCO Litigation and negatively impact
our business.  For example, we believe
that our decrease in SCOsource revenue has been, in part, attributable to
Novell s claim of UNIX copyright ownership, which may have caused potential
customers to delay or forego licensing until an outcome in this legal matter
has been reached.  

   We
operate in a highly competitive market and face significant competition from a
variety of current and potential sources; many of our current and potential
competitors have greater financial and technical resources than we do; thus, we
may fail to compete effectively.   

  In
the operating system market, our competitors include IBM, Red Hat, Novell,
Hewlett Packard, Sun, Microsoft and other Linux distributors.  These and other competitors are aggressively
pursuing the current UNIX operating system market. Many of these competitors
have access to substantially greater resources than we do.  The major competitive alternative to our UNIX
products is Linux.  The expansion of our
competitors  offerings may restrict the overall market available for our UNIX
products, including some markets where we have been successful in the past.  

  Our
future success may depend in part on our ability to continue to meet the
increasing needs of our customers by supporting existing and emerging
technologies.  If we do not enhance our
products to meet these evolving needs, we may not remain competitive and be
able to sustain or grow our business. Additionally, because technological
advancement in the UNIX operating system market and alternative operating
system markets is progressing at an advanced pace, we will have to develop and
introduce enhancements to our existing products and any new products on a
timely basis to keep pace with these developments, evolving industry standards
and changing customer requirements.  Our
failure to meet any of these and other competitive pressures may render our
existing products and services obsolete, which would have an adverse impact on
our revenue and operations.  

  The
success of our UNIX business will depend on the level of commitment and
certification we receive from industry partners and developers.  In recent years, we have seen hardware and
software vendors as well as software developers turn their certification and
application development efforts toward Linux and elect not to continue to
support or certify to our UNIX operating system products.  If this trend continues, our competitive
position will be adversely impacted and our future revenue from our UNIX
business will decline.  The decline in   

35  

our
UNIX business may be accelerated if industry partners withdraw their support
from us for any reason, including our SCO Litigation.  

   If the
market for UNIX continues to contract, our business will be harmed.   

  Our
revenue from the sale of UNIX products has declined over the last several
years.  This decrease in revenue has been
attributable primarily to increased competition from other operating systems,
particularly Linux.  Our sales of UNIX
products and services are primarily to existing customers. If the demand for
UNIX products continues to decline, and we are unable to develop UNIX products
and services that successfully address a market demand, our UNIX revenue will
continue to decline, industry participants may not certify to our operating
system and products, we may not be able to attract new customers or retain
existing customers and our business and results of operations will be adversely
affected.  Because of the long adoption
cycle for operating system purchases and the long sales cycle of our operating
system products, we may not be able to reverse these revenue declines quickly.  

   We may
lose the support of industry partners leading to an accelerated decline in our
UNIX products and services revenue.   

  The
decline in our UNIX business and our SCO Litigation may cause industry
partners, developers and hardware and software vendors to choose not to support
or certify to our UNIX operating system products.  This would lead to an accelerated decline in
our UNIX products and services revenue and would adversely impact our results
of operations and liquidity.  

   Our
claims relating to our UNIX intellectual property may subject us to additional
legal proceedings.   

  In
August 2003, Red Hat brought a lawsuit against us asserting that the Linux
operating system does not infringe on our UNIX intellectual property rights and
seeking a declaratory judgment for non-infringement of copyrights and no
misappropriation of trade secrets.  In
addition, Red Hat claims we have engaged in false advertising in violation of
the Lanham Act, deceptive trade practices, unfair competition, tortious
interference with prospective business opportunities, and trade libel and disparagement.  Although this case is currently stayed
pending the resolution of our suit against IBM, we intend to vigorously defend
this action.  However, if Red Hat is
successful in its claim against us, our business and results of operations
could be materially harmed.  

  In
addition, regulators or others in the Linux market and some foreign regulators
have initiated or in the future may initiate legal actions against us, all of
which may negatively impact our operations and future operating performance.  

   We rely
on our indirect sales channel for distribution of our products, and any
disruption of our channel at any level could adversely affect the sales of our
products.   

  We
have a two-tiered distribution channel. 
The relationships we have developed with resellers allow us to offer our
products and services to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be
able to reach through our own direct sales and marketing efforts.  Some solution providers also purchase solutions
through our resellers, and we anticipate they will continue to do so.  Because we usually sell indirectly through
resellers, we cannot control the relationships through which resellers,
solution providers or equipment integrators purchase our products.  In turn, we do not control the presentation
of our products to end users.  Therefore,
our sales could be affected by disruptions in the relationships between us and
our resellers, between our resellers and solution providers, or between
solution providers and end users.  Also,
resellers and solution providers may choose not to emphasize our products to
their customers.  Any of these
occurrences could diminish the effectiveness of our distribution channel and
lead to decreased sales.  

36  

Our
future SCOsource licensing revenue is uncertain.   

  We
initiated the SCOsource licensing effort in the year ended October 31,
2003 to review the status of UNIX licensing and sublicensing agreements.  This effort resulted in the execution of two
significant vendor license agreements and generated $25,846,000 in revenue
during the year ended October 31, 2003. 
During the years ended October 31, 2004, and 2005, our SCOsource
licensing revenue declined to only $829,000, and $166,000, respectively, and
during the three months ended January 31, 2006, our SCOsource licensing revenue
was $30,000.  Because of a lack of
historical experience and the uncertainties related to SCOsource licensing
revenue, we are unable to estimate the amount and timing of future SCOsource
licensing revenue, if any.  If we do
receive revenue from this source, it may be sporadic and fluctuate from quarter
to quarter.  Additionally, the success of
these initiatives may depend on the strength of our intellectual property
rights and contractual claims regarding UNIX, including the strength of our
claim that unauthorized UNIX source code and derivative works are prevalent in
Linux.  

   Fluctuations
in our operating results or the failure of our operating results to meet the
expectations of public market analysts and investors may negatively impact our
stock price.   

  Fluctuations
in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of analysts or
investors, even in the short-term, could cause our stock price to decline
significantly.  Because of the potential
for significant fluctuations in our SCOsource licensing revenue in any
particular period, you should not rely on comparisons of our results of
operations as an indication of future performance.  

  Factors
that may affect our results include:  

                                                 ability to
successfully negotiate and complete licensing and other agreements related to
our intellectual property;  

                                                 the interest
level of resellers in recommending our UNIX business solutions to end users and
the introduction, development, timing, competitive pricing and market
acceptance of our products and services and those of our competitors;  

                                                 the activities
of short sellers;  

                                                 changes in
general economic conditions, such as recessions, that could affect capital
expenditures in the software industry;  

                   results of, or developments in,
our SCO Litigation;  

                                                 changes in
business attitudes toward UNIX as a viable operating system compared to other
competing systems, especially Linux;  

                                                 the contingency
and other legal fees we may pay to the Law Firms representing us in our efforts
to establish and defend our intellectual property rights; and  

                                                 changes in
attitudes of customers and partners due to the decline in our UNIX business and
our aggressive position against the inclusion of our UNIX code and derivative works
in Linux.  

  We
also experience fluctuations in operating results in interim periods in Europe
and the Asia Pacific regions due to seasonal slowdowns and economic conditions
in these areas.  Seasonal slowdowns in
these regions typically occur during the summer months.  

  As
a result of the factors listed above and elsewhere, it is possible that our
results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts
and investors in any particular period. 
This could cause our stock price to decline. If revenue falls below our
expectations, and we are unable to quickly reduce our spending in response, our
operating results will be lower than expected. Our stock price may fall in
response to these events.  

37  

Our
foreign-based operations and sales create special problems, including the
imposition of governmental controls and taxes and fluctuations in currency
exchange rates that could hurt our results.   

  We
have foreign operations, including development facilities, sales personnel and
customer support operations in Europe, Latin America and Asia. These foreign
operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including:  

                                                 potential loss
of developed technology through piracy, misappropriation, or more lenient laws
regarding intellectual property protection;  

                                                 imposition of
governmental controls, including trade restrictions and other tax requirements;  

                                                 fluctuations in
currency exchange rates and economic instability;  

                                                 longer payment
cycles for sales in foreign countries; and  

                                                 seasonal
reductions in business activity.  

  In
addition, certain of our operating expenses are denominated in local
currencies, creating risk of foreign currency translation losses that could
harm our financial results and cash flows. 
When we generate profits in foreign countries, our effective income tax
rate is increased.  

  During
the three months ended April 30, 2004, our Indian office was assessed
withholding taxes by the Government of India Income Tax Department.  The Tax Department assessed a 15 percent
withholding tax on certain revenue transactions in India that the Tax
Department deemed royalty revenue under the Income Tax Act. We have filed an
appeal with the Tax Department and believe that revenue from our packaged
software does not qualify for royalty treatment and therefore would not be
subject to withholding tax.  However, we
may be unsuccessful in our appeal against the Tax Department and be obligated
to pay the assessed taxable amounts. 
Because of our international operations, we may be subject to additional
withholding or other taxes from other international jurisdictions.  

   If we
are unable to retain key personnel in an intensely competitive environment, our
operations could be adversely affected.   

  We
need to retain our key management, technical and support personnel.  Competition for qualified professionals in
the software industry is intense, and departures of existing personnel could be
disruptive to our business and might result in the departure of other
employees.  The loss or departure of any
officers or key employees could harm our ability to implement our business plan
and could adversely affect our operations. 
Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service
and coordination of our management team, particularly Darl C. McBride, our
President and Chief Executive Officer.  

   Our
Engagement Agreement with the Law Firms representing us in the SCO Litigation
requires us to pay for expert, consulting and other costs, which could harm our
liquidity position if these costs are higher than anticipated.   

  As
of January 31, 2006, we had a total of $19,214,000 in cash and cash equivalents
and available-for-sale marketable securities and an additional $1,758,000 of
restricted cash to be used to pursue the SCO Litigation.  Since October 31, 2004, we have spent
$3,242,000 for expert, consulting and other costs as agreed in the Engagement
Agreement with our legal counsel in the SCO Litigation.  As we continue with discovery and other trial
preparations during the year ending October 31, 2006, we believe that we will
spend the $1,758,000 remaining in escrow and we may be required to place
additional amounts into the escrow account, which could harm our liquidity
position.  

38  

We have
issued options under our equity compensation plans without complying with
registration or qualification requirements under the securities laws of
California, Georgia and possibly other states, and, as a result, we may incur
rescission liability for such options and may face additional potential claims
under state securities laws.   

  In
addition to the shares issued under the ESPP, we have granted options under our
1999 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan and 2002 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan without
complying with the registration or qualification requirements under the
securities laws of California, Georgia and possibly other states.  We may face rescission liability to plan
participants holding unexercised stock options in these states.  Additionally, regulatory authorities may
require us to pay fines or they may impose other sanctions upon us, and we may
face other claims by plan participants other than rescission claims.  

   Our
stock price is volatile.   

  The
trading price for our common stock has been volatile during the last several
years and our share price has changed dramatically over short periods.  We believe that changes in our stock price
are affected by the factors mentioned above under the caption entitled    Fluctuations in our operating results or the failure of our operating
results to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors may
negatively impact our stock price    as well as from changing public
perceptions concerning the strength of our intellectual property claims and
other factors beyond our control.  Public
perception can change quickly and without any change or development in our
underlying business or litigation position. 
An investment in our stock is subject to such volatility and,
consequently, is subject to significant risk.  

   There
are risks associated with the potential exercise of our outstanding options.   

  As
of February 28, 2006, we have issued outstanding options to purchase up to
approximately 4,634,000 shares of common stock with an average exercise price
of $4.11 per share.  The existence of
such rights to acquire common stock at fixed prices may prove a hindrance to
our efforts to raise future equity and debt funding, and the exercise of such
rights will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our stockholders and
may dilute the value of their ownership. 
The possible future sale of shares issuable on the exercise of
outstanding options could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our
common stock.  Further, the holders of
the outstanding stock options may exercise them at a time when we would
otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable
to us.  

   Common
stock available for resale may depress the market price of our common stock.   

  We
have filed a post-effective amendment to a registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), which has been declared effective,
covering the potential resale by one of our shareholders of up to 1,105,153
shares of common stock, or 5.3% of our outstanding common stock.  In addition, we have filed a registration
statement with the SEC, which has not been declared effective, covering the
potential resale by some of our shareholders of up to 2,852,449 shares of our
common stock, or 13.6% of our outstanding common stock.  The existence of a substantial number of
shares of common stock subject to immediate resale could depress the market
price for our common stock and impair our ability to raise needed capital.  

   Our
stock price could decline further because of the activities of short sellers.   

  Our
stock has attracted significant interest from short sellers.  The activities of short sellers could further
reduce the price of our stock or inhibit increases in our stock price.  

39  

The
right of our Board of Directors to authorize additional shares of preferred
stock could adversely impact the rights of holders of our common stock.   

  Our
Board of Directors currently has the right, with respect to the 5,000,000
shares of our preferred stock, to authorize the issuance of one or more
additional series of our preferred stock with such voting, dividend and other
rights as our directors determine.  The
Board of Directors can designate new series of preferred stock without the
approval of the holders of our common stock. 
The rights of holders of our common stock may be adversely affected by
the rights of any holders of additional shares of preferred stock that may be
issued in the future, including without limitation, further dilution of the
equity ownership percentage of our holders of common stock and their voting
power if we issue preferred stock with voting rights.  Additionally, the issuance of preferred stock
could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our
outstanding voting stock.  

   Our
stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a hostile bid for our
company or a change of control transaction to succeed at current market prices
for our stock.   

  We have adopted a stockholder rights
plan.  The power given to the Board of
Directors by the stockholder rights plan may make it more difficult for a
change of control of our company to occur or for our company to be acquired
when the acquisition is opposed by our Board of Directors.  

     ITEM 2.                        UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS   

   Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities.         

(1)              The
Company purchased these shares pursuant to the rescission offer completed on
January 20, 2006.  As of that date, 14
offerees had accepted the Company s offer to rescind the purchase of
approximately 7,300 shares.  The Company
made aggregate payments to such offerees of approximately $41,500, which includes
approximately $31,800 for the purchase of the shares and approximately $9,700
in statutory interest and damages.  

  (2)              On
March 10, 2004, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to
1,500,000 shares of common stock in the open-market or private transactions.
The plan expired on March 10, 2006. At the time of expiration, the Company
had repurchased 290,000 shares of common stock pursuant to this plan.  

     ITEM 6.                        EXHIBITS   

  (a)                                      Exhibits  

  3.1                                     Amended and
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Caldera International, Inc.
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to SCO s Registration Statement on
Form 8-A12G/A (File No. 000-29911)).  

  3.2                                     Certificate of
Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation regarding
consolidation of outstanding shares (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2
to SCO s Registration Statement on Form 8-A12G/A (File No. 000-29911)).  

40  

3.3                                     Certificate of
Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation regarding change
of name to The SCO Group, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to SCO s
Registration Statement on Form 8A12G/A (File No. 000-29911)).  

  3.4                                   Amended and
Restated Bylaws (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to SCO s Registration
Statement on Form 8-A12G/A (File No. 000-29911)).  

  3.5                                     Certificate of
Designation for Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to SCO s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February
9, 2004 (File No. 000-29911)).  

  3.6                                     Certificate of
Correction correcting the Certificate of Designation for Series A-1 Convertible
Preferred Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to SCO s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on February 9, 2004 (File No. 000-29911)).  

  31.1                               Certification
of Darl C. McBride, President and Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule
13a-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

  31.2                               Certification
of Bert B. Young, Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the
Exchange Act, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

  32.1                               Certification
of Darl C. McBride, President and Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Section
1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

  32.2                               Certification
of Bert B. Young, Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Section 1350, Chapter 63
of Title 18, United States Code, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

                                         SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto
duly authorized.  

Date: March 17, 2006  

THE SCO GROUP, INC.  

By:  

/s/ Bert B. Young  

Bert B. Young  

Duly Authorized Officer
  and  

Chief Financial Officer  

(Principal Financial and  

Accounting Officer)  

41   

EXHIBIT
INDEX   

Exhibit   

    Number                                                                      Exhibit
Description   

3.1                                     Amended and
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Caldera International, Inc.
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to SCO s Registration Statement on
Form 8-A12G/A (File No. 000-29911)).  

  3.2                                     Certificate of
Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation regarding
consolidation of outstanding shares (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2
to SCO s Registration Statement on Form 8-A12G/A (File No. 000-29911)).  

  3.3                                     Certificate of
Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation regarding change
of name to The SCO Group, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to SCO s
Registration Statement on Form 8A12G/A (File No. 000-29911)).  

  3.4                                   Amended and
Restated Bylaws (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to SCO s Registration
Statement on Form 8-A12G/A (File No. 000-29911)).  

  3.5                                     Certificate of
Designation for Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to SCO s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February
9, 2004 (File No. 000-29911)).  

  3.6                                     Certificate of
Correction correcting the Certificate of Designation for Series A-1 Convertible
Preferred Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to SCO s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on February 9, 2004 (File No. 000-29911)).  

  31.1                               Certification
of Darl C. McBride, President and Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule
13a-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

  31.2                               Certification
of Bert Young, Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the
Exchange Act, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.  

  32.1                   Certification of Darl C. McBride, President and
Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18,
United States Code, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.  

   32.2                                Certification of Bert Young, Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to
Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

42  

<EX-31.1>
 2
 a06-7069_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
RULE 13A-14   

   OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED,   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

   SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, Darl C. McBride, certify that:  

1.             I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of
The SCO Group, Inc.;  

2.             Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;  

3.             Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.             The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)           Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)           [Paragraph
omitted pursuant to SEC Release Nos. 33-8238 and 34-47986];  

(c)           Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)           Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.             The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions):  

(a)           All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

(b)           Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.  

Date: March 17, 2006  

/s/ Darl C. McBride  

Darl C. McBride  

President and Chief
  Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 a06-7069_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
31.2   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14   

   OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED,   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

   SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, Bert B. Young, certify that:  

1.             I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of
The SCO Group, Inc.;  

2.             Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;  

3.             Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.             The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)           Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)           [Paragraph
omitted pursuant to SEC Release Nos. 33-8238 and 34-47986];  

(c)           Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)           Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.             The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions):  

(a)           All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

(b)           Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 a06-7069_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

   SECTION 906 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In
connection with the quarterly report of The SCO Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on
Form 10-Q, for the period ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Darl C. McBride,
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, that:  

1.                                           The Report fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and  

2.                                           The information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results
of operations of the Company.  

By:  

/s/
  Darl C. McBride  

Darl
  C. McBride  

President
  and Chief Executive Officer  

Date:                        March 17, 2006  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 a06-7069_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.2   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   

   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

   SECTION 906 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In
connection with the quarterly report of The SCO Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on
Form 10-Q, for the period ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Bert B. Young,
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
that:  

1.                                           The Report fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and  

2.                                           The information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results
of operations of the Company.  

By:  

/s/
  Bert B. Young  

Bert
  B. Young  

Chief
  Financial Officer  

Date:                        March 17, 2006  

</EX-32.2>

