<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060316_10-Q_edgar_data_1274150_0000950137-06-003158_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>374528</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>135853</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>152793</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>21</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-003158.hdr.sgml : 20060316
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060316163907
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-003158
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060316
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060316

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001274150
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC SERVICES [4911]
		IRS NUMBER:				200501090
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-32239
		FILM NUMBER:		06692453

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		600 ANTON BOULEVARD
		STREET 2:		SUITE 2000
		CITY:			COSTA MESA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92626
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7142580470

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		600 ANTON BOULDVARD
		STREET 2:		SUITE 2000
		CITY:			COSTA MESA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92626

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AMERICAN ENERGY GROUP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20031222

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BIV57HYUtBybeiwec1ZoOIm8GXDc3rB6GRoZ+C9Xf/7b/rByt7Sx0HbnE1YCcX+h
 zi44LjeAQViIEr7OEJvwxg==

 0000950137-06-003158.txt : 20060316

10-Q
 1
 a18687e10vq.htm
 FORM 10-Q

Commerce Energy Group, Inc. 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form 10-Q 

(Mark One)

For the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006 

or 

For the transition period from       to 

Commission File Number 001-32239 

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

(714) 259-2500  
 (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

Not Applicable  
 (Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Large Accelerated Filer               Accelerated filer               Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act). Yes     No    

As of March 14, 2006, 30,266,809 shares of the registrant s common stock were outstanding.

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

Form 10-Q 
For the Period Ended January 31, 2006 
Index 

i

Table of Contents   

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 

A number of the matters and subject areas discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q contain forward-looking statements reflecting management s current expectations. On one or
more occasions, we may make statements regarding our assumptions, projections, expectations,
targets, intentions or beliefs about future events. All statements other than statements of
historical facts included in this Form 10-Q relating to expectation of future financial
performance, continued growth, changes in economic conditions or capital markets and changes in
customer usage patterns and preferences, are forward-looking statements.

Words or phrases such as  anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   expects,   intends, 
 plans,   predicts,   projects,   targets,   will likely result,   will continue,   may,   could 
or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve
risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from
those expressed. We caution that while we make such statements in good faith and we believe such
statements are based on reasonable assumptions, including without limitation, management s
examination of historical operating trends, data contained in records and other data available from
third parties, we cannot assure you that our expectations will be realized.

In addition to the factors and other matters discussed under the caption  Factors That May
Affect Future Results  in Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, some important factors that could
cause actual results or outcomes for Commerce Energy Group, Inc. or our subsidiaries to differ
materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements include:

regulatory changes in the states in which we operate that could adversely affect our operations; 

our continued ability to obtain and maintain licenses from the states in which we operate; 

changes in the restructuring of retail markets which could prevent us from selling
electricity and natural gas on a competitive basis; 

our dependence upon a limited number of third-party suppliers of electricity and
natural gas; 

our dependence upon a limited number of local electric and natural gas utilities to
transmit and distribute the energy we sell to our customers, and to accurately meter and
bill for the energy we supply our customers; 

fluctuations in market prices for electricity and natural gas; 

our ability to accurately forecast the expected energy needs of our electricity and natural gas customers; 

decisions by electricity and natural gas utilities not to raise their rates to
reflect higher market cost of electricity and natural gas, thereby adversely affecting our
competitiveness; 

our ability to successfully compete in new electricity and natural gas markets that we enter; 

decisions by our energy suppliers to require us to post additional collateral to support our energy purchases; 

our ability to obtain and retain credit necessary to support both current operations and future growth; 

our ability to successfully integrate businesses we may acquire; 

seasonal weather or force majeure events that adversely impact electricity and
natural gas supply and infrastructure and which could prevent us from
competitively servicing the demand requirements of our customers; and 

our dependence upon independent system operators, regional transmission
organizations, natural gas transmission companies, and local distribution
companies to properly coordinate and manage their transmission grids and
distribution networks, and to accurately and timely calculate and allocate the cost
of services to market participants. 

Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and,
except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to
reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the
occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible
for management to predict all such factors.

1

Table of Contents   

PART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Item 1.    Financial Statements.  

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

(In thousands, except per share amounts) 

(Unaudited) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

2

Table of Contents   

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

(In thousands, except per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

3

Table of Contents   

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

(In thousands) 

(Unaudited) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

4

Table of Contents   

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 

(Unaudited) 

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Basis of Presentation  

The condensed financial statements for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 and
2005 of Commerce Energy Group, Inc. ( the Company ), include its two wholly-owned subsidiaries:
Commerce Energy, Inc. ( Commerce ) and Skipping Stone Inc. ( Skipping Stone ). All material
inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Preparation of Interim Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  

These interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company s
management, without audit, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States and in the opinion of management, contain all adjustments (consisting of only normal
recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the Company s consolidated financial position,
results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. Certain information and note
disclosures normally included in consolidated annual financial statements prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted
in these consolidated interim financial statements, although the Company believes that the
disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. The condensed
consolidated results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the interim periods
presented herein are not necessarily indicative of future financial results. These interim
condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the annual
consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company s most recent
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2005.

Uses of Estimates  

The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make certain estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and timing of revenue and expenses, the reported
amounts and classification of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are based on the Company s historical experience as
well as management s future expectations. As a result, actual results could materially differ from
management s estimates and assumptions. In preparing our financial statements and accounting for
the underlying transactions and balances, we apply our accounting policies as disclosed in our
notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies relating to
accounting for derivatives and hedging activities, inventory, independent system operator costs,
allowance for doubtful accounts, revenue and unbilled receivables are those that we consider to be
the most critical to an understanding of our financial statements because their application places
the most significant demands on our ability to judge the effect of inherently uncertain matters on
our financial results.

5

Table of Contents   

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)  
 (Unaudited) 

Revenue Recognition  

Energy sales are recognized when the electricity and natural gas are delivered to the
Company s customers. The Company s net revenue is comprised of the following:

The Company purchases electricity under forward physical delivery contracts to supply
electricity to its retail energy customers based on projected usage. Excess electricity sales
include electricity supply resold back into the wholesale market.

Skipping Stone revenue (which is included in retail electricity sales above), after
elimination of inter-company transactions, for the six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 was
$666 and $594, respectively, representing approximately 1% of total net revenue for each period.

Stock-Based Compensation  

Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payments  ( SFAS 123R ) which revises SFAS
No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees.  SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including
grants of employee stock options, be measured at fair value and expensed in the consolidated
statement of operations over the service period (generally the vesting period). The Company uses
the Black-Scholes option valuation model to value stock options. As a result of the adoption of
SFAS 123R, using the modified prospective application, the Company recognized a pre-tax (tax effect
minimal) charge associated with the expensing of stock options vested for the three and six months
ending January 31, 2006 of $110 and $341, respectively. This expense is included in general and
administrative expenses.

The fair value of options granted is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
model based on the weighted-average assumptions in the table below. The assumption for the expected
life is based on evaluations of historical and expected future exercise behavior. The risk-free
interest rate is based on the US Treasury rates at the date of the grant with maturity dates
approximately equal to the expected life at the grant date. The historical stock volatility of the
Company s common stock is used as the basis for the volatility assumption.

6

Table of Contents   

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)  
 (Unaudited) 

A summary of option activity under the Commonwealth Energy Corporation 1999 Equity Incentive
Plan (the  Incentive Plan ) as of January 31, 2006 and the changes during the quarter then ended is
presented below.

(1) 
       
     Options were granted with exercise prices greater than the fair value of the Company s common
stock at the respective dates of grant. 

(2) 
       
     See Note 8 on cancellation of former officers  options. 

(3) 
       
     Options exercisable as of January 31, 2006 were 7,652 with a weighted average exercise price
of $2.29. 

As of January 31, 2006, there was $190 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
non-vested outstanding stock options, which is expected to be recognized over the period February
1, 2006 through August 1, 2007.

As of January 31, 2006 there were 345,000 shares of restricted stocks issued with a total
market value of $523. The total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested restricted
stocks is nominal and will be amortized over the period of February 1, 2006 through August 1, 2009.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the Company accounted for its employee stock options under
the provision of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees  and related interpretations. The Company s compensation cost, net loss or loss per share,
would have reflected a nominal changes if the stock-based compensation plan had been determined
based on the fair value method (estimated using Black-Scholes option pricing model) at the grant
dates in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123,  Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation,  for the six months ended January 31, 2005.

Amended and Restated 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan  

At the Company s Annual Meeting of Stockholders in January 2006 (the
 Annual Meeting ), the Company s stockholders approved the Amended and Restated 2005 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ). The ESPP allows eligible employees of the Company and its designated
affiliates to purchase shares of the Company s common stock through payroll deductions, subject to
an aggregate limit of 3,000,000 shares of common stock that may be purchased under the ESPP. The
ESPP is intended to be an  employee stock purchase plan  within the meaning of Section 423 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), thereby allowing participating employees to
purchase shares of the Company s common stock at a discount on a tax-favored basis pursuant to the
ESPP. Under the ESPP, twelve monthly offerings (each, an  Offering ) of shares of the Company s
common stock are made each year, generally with each Offering beginning on the first day of each
calendar month and ending on the last day of the same calendar month. Eligible employees may
participate in one or more of the Offerings by electing to make payroll deductions during the
Offering. The Board of Directors intends to register the shares of common stock that will become
available for issuance under the ESPP on a registration statement on Form S-8 to be filed with the
SEC.

7

Table of Contents   

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)  
 (Unaudited) 

2006 Stock Incentive Plan  

At the Annual Meeting, the Company s stockholders approved the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the
 SIP ). The principal difference between the SIP and the Incentive Plan relates to the greater
flexibility that the SIP provides with respect to the types of awards that can be granted. The
Incentive Plan is basically limited to stock option and restricted stock grants, while the SIP
allows grants pursuant to a variety of awards, including options, share appreciation rights,
restricted shares, restricted share units, deferred share units and performance-based awards in the
form of stock appreciation rights, deferred shares and performance units. The Company will not make
additional awards with respect to the shares of common stock that remain available for grant under
the Incentive Plan as of the date of the Annual Meeting. The SIP provides that no more than
1,453,334 shares of the Company s common stock may be issued pursuant to Awards under the SIP. The
Board of Directors intends to register the shares of Common Stock that will become available for
issuance under the SIP on a registration statement on Form S-8 to be filed with the SEC. Awards
under the SIP may be made to key employees and directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries
whose participation in the SIP is determined to be in the best interests of the Company by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

Income Tax  

The Company has established valuation allowances to reserve its net deferred tax assets due to
the uncertainty that the Company will realize the related tax benefits in the foreseeable future.

Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

In accordance with SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities  the Company uses cash flow hedge accounting. The fair value of the derivative contracts
are recorded as a current or long-term derivative assets or liabilities. Subsequent changes in the
fair value of the derivative assets and liabilities are recorded on a net basis in Other
Comprehensive Income, or OCI, and reflected as direct energy cost in the statement of operations as
the energy is delivered. The net Other comprehensive loss on designated cash flow hedged
instruments was $1.0 million and $0 for the six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

Segment Reporting  

The Company s chief operating decision makers consist of members of senior management that
work together to allocate resources to, and assess the performance of, the Company s business.
These members of senior management currently manage the Company s business, assess its performance,
and allocate its resources as the single operating segment of energy retailing. As Skipping Stone,
net of inter-company eliminations, only accounts for approximately 1% of total net revenue, and
geographic information is not significant, no segment information is provided.

Accounts Receivable, Net  

Accounts receivable, net, is comprised of the following:

8

Table of Contents   

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)  
 (Unaudited) 

Inventory  

Inventory represents natural gas in storage as required by state regulatory bodies and
contractual obligations under customer choice programs. Inventory is stated at the lower of
weighted average cost or market.

2. Basic and Diluted Loss per Common Share 

Basic loss per common share was computed by dividing net loss available to common
stockholders, by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted loss per common share reflects the potential dilution that would occur if all outstanding
options or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted and was computed by
dividing net loss by the weighted average number of common shares plus dilutive common equivalent
shares outstanding, unless they were anti-dilutive.

The following is a reconciliation of the numerator loss and the denominator (common shares in
thousands) used in the computation of basic and diluted loss per common share:

For the three and six months ended January 31, 2005, the effects of the assumed exercise
of all stock options are anti-dilutive; accordingly, such assumed exercises and conversions have
been excluded from the calculation of net loss   diluted. If the assumed exercises or conversions
had been used, the fully diluted shares outstanding for the three and six months ended January 31,
2005 would have been 30,845,000 and 30,867,000, and for January 31, 2006 it would have been 30,734,000 and
31,157,000, respectively.

3. Market and Regulatory 

The Company currently serves electricity and gas customers in nine states, operating within
the jurisdictional territory of nineteen different local utilities. Regulatory requirements are
determined at the individual state level, and administered and monitored by the Public Utility
Commission, or PUC, of each state. Operating rules and rate filings for each utility are unique.
Accordingly, the Company generally treats each utility distribution territory as a distinct market.
Among other things, tariff filings by local distribution companies, or LDCs, for changes in their
allowed billing rate to their customers in the markets in which the Company operates, significantly
impact the viability of the Company s sales and marketing plans, and its overall operating and
financial results.

9

Table of Contents   

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)  
 (Unaudited) 

Electricity  

Currently, the Company actively markets electricity in eleven LDC markets within the five
states of California, Pennsylvania, Michigan, New Jersey and Texas.

On April 1, 1998, the Company began supplying customers in California with electricity as an
Electric Service Provider, or ESP. On September 20, 2001, the California Public Utility Commission,
or CPUC, issued a ruling suspending the right of Direct Access, which allowed electricity customers
to buy their power from a supplier other than the electric utilities. This suspension, although
permitting the Company to keep current direct access customers and to solicit direct access
customers served by other ESPs, prohibits the Company from soliciting new non-direct access
customers for an indefinite period of time.

Recently, the CPUC has made several important determinations, including a Resource Adequacy
Requirement and a Renewable Portfolio Standard. The Resource Adequacy Requirement requires load
serving entities, or LSEs, including the Company, to demonstrate that they have, or have acquired,
the capacity to serve their customers including a 15-17% reserve margin beginning in June 2006, and
an initial demonstration was filed in February 2006. The Renewable Portfolio Standard will also
require increasing levels of renewable power supplied by LSEs up to 20% by 2010. Additional costs
to serve customers in California are anticipated from these proceedings, however, the Company
cannot predict the impact of these proceedings and the anticipated CPUC implementation rules will
determine the distribution of those costs across all LSEs.

On November 21, 2005 the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued an order requiring
all California Scheduling Coordinators (SCs), and all Load Serving Entities (LSEs) who act as their
own SCs which includes Commerce Energy, to submit day-ahead schedules that reflect purchased power
equal to 95% of their forecasted daily demand. This change is expected to result in significant
revisions to operating procedures to match the block shapes of the power purchased by SCs to the
load shapes utilized by their customers. Failure to achieve the 95% precision required by the order
may result in additional charges, penalties and/or operational adjustments. The financial impact on
the Company cannot be determined at this time.

In California, the FERC and other regulatory and judicial bodies continue to examine the
behavior of market participants during the California Energy Crisis of 2000 and 2001, and to
recalculate what market clearing prices should or might have been under alternative scenarios of
behavior by market participants. In the event the historical costs of market operations were to be
reallocated among market participants, the Company cannot predict whether the results would be
favorable or unfavorable, or the amount of any resulting adjustment.

Detroit Edison un-bundled their energy and distribution charges in February, 2006. A primary
component of this un-bundling is to shift rate responsibility from commercial to residential
customers. As a result, the commercial and industrial customers will receive a substantial energy
rate decrease which may have a negative impact on the Company s ability to retain and acquire new
commercial customers in the state.

There are no current rate cases or filings in the states of Pennsylvania, New Jersey or Texas
that are anticipated to adversely impact the Company s financial results.

Natural Gas  

Currently, the Company actively markets natural gas in eight LDC markets within the six states
of California, Georgia, Maryland, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Due to significant increases in
the price of natural gas, a number of LDCs have filed or communicated expectations of filing for
approval of rate increases to their customers. Although the impact of these filings cannot
currently be estimated, they are not anticipated to adversely impact the Company s financial
results.

4. Investments 

We had three investments in the following early-stage, energy related entities: Encorp, Inc.,
or  Encorp , Turbocor B.V., or  Turbocor , and Power Efficiency Corporation, or  PEC . In July 29,
2005, we sold our ownership interest in Turbocor for $2,000.

10

Table of Contents   

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)  
 (Unaudited) 

The two remaining companies, which are expected to continue to incur operating losses, have
very limited working capital. As a result, continuing operations will be dependent upon these
companies securing additional financing to meet their respective immediate capital needs. The
Company has no obligation, and currently no intention, to invest additional funds into these
companies. At January 31, 2006, these two remaining investments are carried at a nominal value in
goodwill, intangibles and other assets.

5. Acquisitions 

On February 9, 2005, the Company acquired certain assets of ACN Utility Services, Inc.
( ACNU ), a subsidiary of American Communications Network, Inc. ( ACN ), and its retail electricity
and natural gas sales business. ACNU sells retail electricity in Texas and Pennsylvania and sells
retail natural gas in California, Georgia, Maryland, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania. The aggregate
purchase price was $14,500 in cash and 930,000 shares of the Company s common stock, valued at
$2,000. In addition, as part of the initial purchase price, the Company was required to fund $2,542
of collateralized letters of credit on the closing date to guarantee our performance to various
third parties. The common stock payment was contingent upon ACN meeting certain sales requirements
under a one year, renewable, Sales Agency Agreement between ACN and the Company ( Agreement )
during the year following the acquisition date, and has been placed in an escrow account.

The assets acquired included approximately 80,000 natural gas and electricity residential and
small commercial customers, natural gas inventory associated with utility and pipeline storage and
transportation agreements and natural gas and electricity supply, scheduling and capacity
contracts, software and other infrastructures. No cash or accounts receivables were acquired in the
transaction and none of ACNU s legal liabilities were assumed. The assets purchased and the
operating results generated from the acquisition have been included in the Company s operations as
of February 1, 2005, the effective date of the acquisition.

Based on sales results the contingent consideration will not be earned and goodwill will be
reduced by substantially all of the $2,000. On November 28, 2005, ACN notified Commerce of its
intent not to renew the Agreement between ACN and Commerce. As a result of ACN s intent not to
renew, the Agreement terminated automatically, on February 9, 2006.

With the termination of the Agreement, ACN s network of sales representatives will not offer
the Company s products after February 9, 2006. Commerce believes that the termination of the
Agreement will not materially affect its relationships with existing customers acquired in the ACN
Energy Transaction or subsequently acquired through ACN s network of sales representatives under
the Agreement, and that it s existing internal direct sales force and other developing sales
channels should replace ACN s sales network in the future.

6. Contingencies 

Litigation  

The Company currently is, and from time to time may become, involved in litigation concerning
claims arising out of the Company s operations in the normal course of business. While the Company
cannot predict the ultimate outcome of its pending matters or how they will affect the Company s
results of operations or financial position, the Company s management currently does not expect any
of the legal proceedings to which the Company is currently a party to have a material adverse
effect on its results of operations or financial position.

On February 24, 2006 the Company received a Demand for Arbitration from ACN under the Sales
Agency Agreement previously entered into by Commerce and the Company with respect to alleged future
commissions arising after the termination of the Sales Agency Agreement by ACN, effective February
9, 2006. The Demand for Arbitration alleges claims for anticipatory breach of contract, unjust
enrichment, tortuous interference with prospective economic advantage and prima facie tort alleging
actual and compensatory damages estimated to be no less than $32,287, restitution estimated to be
no less than $6,776 and punitive damages estimated to be no less than $45,395. The Company intends
to vigorously defend this matter.

11

Table of Contents   

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)  
(Unaudited)

7. Derivative Financial Instruments 

The Company s activities expose it to a variety of market risks, principally from commodity
prices. Management has established risk management policies and procedures designed to reduce the
potentially adverse effects that the price volatility of these markets may have on its operating
results. The Company s risk management activities, including the use of derivative instruments such
as forward physical delivery contracts and financial swaps, options and futures contracts, are
subject to the management, direction and control of an internal risk oversight committee. The
Company maintains commodity price risk management strategies that use these derivative instruments,
within approved risk tolerances, to minimize significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations
caused by commodity price volatility.

Supplying electricity and natural gas to retail customers requires the Company to match
customers  projected demand with long-term and short-term commodity purchases. The Company
purchases substantially all of its power and natural gas utilizing forward physical delivery
contracts. These physical delivery contracts are defined as commodity derivative contracts under
SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Using the exemption
available for qualifying contracts under SFAS No. 133, the Company applies the normal purchase and
normal sale accounting treatment to its forward physical delivery contracts. Accordingly, the
Company records revenue generated from customer sales as energy is delivered to retail customers
and the related energy under the forward physical delivery contracts is recorded as direct energy
costs when received from suppliers.

In January 2005, the Company sold two significant electricity forward physical delivery
contracts (on a net cash settlement basis) back to the original supplier in connection with a
strategic realignment of its customer portfolio in the Pennsylvania electricity market, or PJM-ISO,
which resulted in a gain of $7.2 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2005. As a result of that
sale, the normal purchase and normal sale exemption has not been available for the forward supply
costs purchased for the PJM-ISO market.

For forward or future contracts that do not meet the qualifying criteria for normal purchase,
normal sale accounting treatment, the Company elects cash flow hedge accounting, where appropriate.
Under cash flow hedge accounting, the fair value of the contract is recorded as a current or
long-term derivative asset or liability. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the derivative
assets and liabilities are recorded on a net basis in Other Comprehensive Income, or OCI, and
reflected as direct energy cost in the statement of operations as the energy is delivered.

The amounts recorded in OCI at January 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005 related to cash flow hedges
are summarized in the following table:

Certain financial derivative instruments (such as swaps, options and futures), designated
as economic hedges or as speculative, do not qualify or meet the requirements for normal purchase,
normal sale accounting treatment or cash flow hedge accounting and are recorded currently in
operating income (loss) and as a current or long-term derivative asset or liability depending on
their term. The subsequent changes in the fair value of these contracts may result in operating
income (loss) volatility as the fair value of the changes are recorded on a net basis in direct
energy cost in the consolidated statement of operations for each fiscal period. For the three
months ending January 31, 2006, the impact of financial derivatives accounted for as mark-to-market
resulted in a loss of $3.1 million. The mark-to-market loss resulted largely from inaccuracies in
determining exposure in our natural gas portfolio resulting

12

Table of Contents   

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)  
 (Unaudited) 

in ineffective hedging of underlying price exposure. The notional value of these derivatives
outstanding at January 31, 2006 was $16.6 million. As of
January 31, 2006, the Company had total derivative assets of $600 included in Prepaid expenses and other, and $5,100 of total derivative liabilities included in Accrued liabilities.

8. Settlement Agreements with Former Officers 

On November 17, 2005, the Company entered into settlement agreements and general releases with
each of the Company s former President, Peter Weigand, and Chief Financial Officer, Richard L.
Boughrum. Additionally, Peter Weigand submitted his resignation from the Board of Directors,
effective November 17, 2005.

Under the terms of the settlement agreements, the Company agreed to pay Mr. Weigand and Mr.
Boughrum lump sum settlement payments totaling $1,060 in April 2006, and agreed to purchase all of
their 1,414,479 shares of the Company s common stock at a price of $1.50 per share, with 120,000 of
such shares held by Mr. Weigand being purchased by two of the independent directors of the Company.
Payments for the stock by the Company shall be made in several installments, the first installment
representing one half of the amount, was paid on November 28, 2005, and the other half of the
payment shall be made pursuant to a promissory note to be paid in five equal installments
commencing in December 2005. In connection with the term of the settlement agreements, all of
Mr. Weigand s and Mr. Boughrum s stock options, 1,100,000 in the aggregate, were cancelled.

The above-referenced lump sum settlement payments to be made to Messrs. Weigand and Boughrum
in April 2006 pursuant to the Settlement Agreements replaced the monthly severance payments which
otherwise would be made under their respective Employment Agreements. Under the settlement
agreements, each of Mr. Weigand and Mr. Boughrum, and the Company agreed to mutual general releases
of claims that the parties may have had against each other.

The Company entered into a settlement agreement and general release with Eric Alam, Senior
Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Mr. Alam resigned effective December 1, 2005 and agreed to
sell to the Company all of his 174,926 shares of stock for $1.50 per share to be paid in two equal
installments, in November 2005 and February 2006. In connection with the settlement, all 133,000 of
Mr. Alam s stock options were cancelled.

13

Table of Contents   

Item 2.    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Overview 

We are a diversified, independent energy marketer of electricity and natural gas to end-use
customers. We provide retail electricity and natural gas to residential, commercial, industrial and
institutional customers in nine states. Our principal operating subsidiary, Commerce Energy, Inc.,
is licensed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, as a power marketer. In addition
to the states in which we currently operate, we are also licensed to supply retail electricity in
New York, Maryland, Ohio and licensed to supply retail electricity and natural gas in Virginia.

We were founded in 1997 as a retail electricity marketer in California and have grown to serve
electricity and natural gas customers in nineteen utility markets in nine states. Growth has
occurred by a combination of organic means and acquisitions. In the past eighteen months we
acquired Skipping Stone Inc., or Skipping Stone, an energy consulting company, and purchased from
American Communications Network, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries, which we refer to
collectively as ACN, certain assets of ACN s retail electric power and natural gas sales business.

As of January 31, 2006, we delivered electricity to approximately 71,000 customers in
California, Pennsylvania, Michigan, New Jersey and Texas; and natural gas to approximately 57,000
customers in California, Georgia, Maryland, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania. The potential growth
of our business depends upon a number of factors, including the degree of deregulation in each
state, our ability to acquire new customers and retain existing customers, and our ability to
acquire energy for our customers at competitive prices and on favorable credit terms.

The electricity and natural gas we sell to our customers is purchased from third party
suppliers under both short and long-term contracts. We do not own electricity generation or
delivery facilities, natural gas producing properties or pipelines. The electricity and natural gas
we sell is generally metered and delivered to our customers by the local utilities. The local
utilities also provide billing and collection services for many of our customers on our behalf.
Additionally, to facilitate load shaping and demand balancing for our customers, we buy and sell
surplus electricity and natural gas from and to other market participants when necessary. We
utilize third party facilities for the storage of our natural gas.

As used herein, the  Company,   we,   us,  or  our  means Commerce Energy Group, Inc. and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries.  Commerce  refers to Commerce Energy, Inc., our principal operating
subsidiary.

Acquisitions 

ACN Energy Transaction  

On February 9, 2005, the Company acquired certain assets of ACN Utility Services, Inc.
( ACNU ), a subsidiary of American Communications Network, Inc. ( ACN ), and its retail electricity
and natural gas sales business. ACNU sold retail electricity in Texas and Pennsylvania and sold
retail natural gas in California, Georgia, Maryland, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania. The aggregate
purchase price was $14.5 million in cash and 930,000 shares of the Company s common stock, valued
at $2.0 million. In addition, as part of the initial purchase price, the Company was required to
fund $2.5 million of collateralized letters of credit on the closing date to guarantee our
performance to various third parties. The common stock payment was contingent upon ACN meeting
certain sales requirements under a one year, renewable, Sales Agency Agreement between ACN and the
Company, or the Sales Agency Agreement,  during the year following the acquisition date, and has been placed in an
escrow account. Based on sales results the contingent consideration will not be earned and goodwill
will be reduced by substantially all of the $2.0 million. On November 28, 2005, ACN notified the
Company of its intent not to renew the Sales Agency Agreement between ACN and us. As a result of ACN s intent
not to renew, the Sales Agency Agreement terminated automatically, on February 9, 2006.

The assets acquired included approximately 80,000 natural gas-and-electricity residential and
small commercial customers, natural gas inventory associated with utility and pipeline storage and
transportation agreements and natural gas and electricity supply, scheduling and capacity
contracts, software and other infrastructures. No cash or accounts receivables were acquired in the
transaction and none of ACNU s liabilities were assumed. The assets purchased and the operating
results generated from the acquisition have been included in our operations as of February 1, 2005,
the effective date of the acquisition.

14

Table of Contents   

With the termination of the Sales Agency Agreement, ACN s network of sales representatives
will no longer offer our electricity and natural gas products after February 9, 2006. Although we
believe that the termination of the Sales Agency Agreement will not materially affect our
relationships with existing customers acquired in the ACN Energy Transaction or subsequently
acquired through ACN s network of sales representatives under the Sales Agency Agreement, there is
no assurance that we can continue to maintain the relationship with these customers.

Investments 

We had three investments in the following early-stage, energy related entities: Encorp, Inc.,
or  Encorp , Turbocor B.V., or  Turbocor , and Power Efficiency Corporation, or  PEC . In July 29,
2005, we sold our ownership interest in Turbocor for $2.0 million.

The two remaining companies, which are expected to continue to incur operating losses, have
very limited working capital. As a result, continuing operations will be dependent upon these
companies securing additional financing to meet their respective immediate capital needs. We have
no obligation, and currently no intention, to invest additional funds into these companies. At
January 31, 2006, these two remaining investments are carried at a nominal value in goodwill,
intangibles and other assets.

Market and Regulatory 

We currently serve electricity and gas customers in nine states, operating within the
jurisdictional territory of nineteen different local utilities. Although regulatory requirements
are determined at the individual state, and administered and monitored by the Public Utility
Commission, or PUC, of each state, operating rules and rate filings for each utility are unique.
Accordingly, we generally treat each utility distribution territory as a distinct market. Among
other things, tariff filings by local distribution companies, or LDCs, for changes in their allowed
billing rate to their customers in the markets in which we operate, significantly impact the
viability of our sales and marketing plans, and our overall operating and financial results.

Electricity  

Currently, we actively market electricity in eleven LDC markets within the five states of
California, Pennsylvania, Michigan, New Jersey and Texas.

On April 1, 1998, we began supplying customers in California with electricity as an Electric
Service Provider, or ESP. On September 20, 2001, the California Public Utility Commission, or CPUC,
issued a ruling suspending the right of Direct Access, which allowed electricity customers to buy
their power from a supplier other than the electric utilities. This suspension, although permitting
us to keep current direct access customers and to solicit direct access customers served by other
ESPs, prohibits us from soliciting new non-direct access customers for an indefinite period of
time.

Recently, the CPUC has made several important determinations, including a Resource Adequacy
Requirement and a Renewable Portfolio Standard. The Resource Adequacy Requirement requires load
serving entities, or LSEs, to demonstrate that they have, or have acquired, the capacity to serve
their customers including a 15-17% reserve margin beginning in June 2006, an initial demonstration
was filed in February 2006 after an extension was issued by the commission. The Renewable Portfolio
Standard will require increasing levels of renewable power supplied by LSEs up to 20% by 2010.
Additional costs to serve customers in California are anticipated from these proceedings, however,
the Company cannot predict the impact of these proceedings and the anticipated CPUC implementation
rules will determine the distribution of those costs across all LSEs.

On November 21, 2005 the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued an order accepting
the California Independent System Operator s (CAISO s) modification to their tariff amendment
number 72. This change requires all California Scheduling Coordinators (SCs), and all Load Serving
Entities (LSEs) who act as their own SCs which includes Commerce Energy, to submit day-ahead
schedules that reflect purchased power equal to 95% of their forecasted daily demand. This may
result in significant revisions to operating procedures to match the block shapes of the power
purchased by SCs to the load shapes utilized by their customers. Failure to achieve the

15

Table of Contents   

95% precision required by the order may result in additional charges, penalties and/or
operational adjustments. The financial impact on individual LSEs including the Company cannot be
determined at this time.

In California, the FERC and other regulatory and judicial bodies continue to examine the
behavior of market participants during the California Energy Crisis of 2000 and 2001, and to
recalculate what market clearing prices should or might have been under alternative scenarios of
behavior by market participants. In the event the historical costs of market operations were to be
reallocated among market participants, we cannot predict whether the results would be favorable or
unfavorable, or the amount of any resulting adjustment. The payment or receipt of adjustments, if
any, will likely be conducted between FERC, the California ISO and our contracted scheduling
coordinator for the period in question, Automated Power Exchange (APX). APX served as the direct
interface with the now defunct California Power Exchange for the sale and purchase of some volumes
of power by us during 2000 and 2001.

Detroit Edison un-bundled their energy and distribution charges in February, 2006. A primary
component of this un-bundling is to shift rate responsibility from commercial to residential
customers. As a result, the commercial and industrial customers will receive a substantial energy
rate decrease which may have a negative impact on the Company s ability to retain and acquire new
commercial customers in the state.

There are no current rate cases or filings in the states of Pennsylvania, New Jersey or Texas
that are anticipated to impact our financial results.

Natural Gas  

Currently, we actively market natural gas in eight LDC markets within the six states of
California, Georgia, Maryland, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Due to recent and significant
increases in the price of natural gas, a number of LDCs have filed or communicated expectations of
filing for approval of rate increases to their customers. Although the impact of these filings
cannot currently be estimated, they are not anticipated to adversely impact our financial results.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and operating results are
based on our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of this Form 10-Q requires us to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities,
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements, and the
reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from
those estimates and assumptions. In preparing our financial statements and accounting for the
underlying transactions and balances, we apply our accounting policies as disclosed in our notes to
the condensed consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies discussed below are those
that we consider to be most critical to an understanding of our financial statements because their
application places the most significant demands on our ability to judge the effect of inherently
uncertain matters on our financial results. For all of these policies, we caution that future
events rarely develop exactly as forecast, and the best estimates routinely require adjustment.

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities    We purchase
substantially all of our power and natural gas under forward physical delivery contracts
for supply to our retail customers. These forward physical delivery contracts are defined
as commodity derivative contracts under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard, or SFAS
No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Using the
exemption available for qualifying contracts under SFAS No. 133, we apply the normal
purchase and normal sale accounting treatment to a majority of our forward physical
delivery contracts. Accordingly, we record revenue generated from customer sales as energy
is delivered to our retail customers and the related energy cost is recorded as direct
energy costs concurrently. 

As a result of a sale on January 28, 2005 of two significant electricity forward physical
delivery contracts (on a net cash settlement basis) back to the original supplier, the normal
purchase and normal sale exemption has not been available in our Pennsylvania market, or the
PJM-ISO through January 31, 2006. Accordingly, we designate forward physical delivery
contracts entered into for the PJM-ISO, and certain other forward fixed price purchases and
financial derivatives as cash flow hedges, whereby mark-to-market accounting gains or 

16

Table of Contents   

losses are deferred and reported as a component of Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) until
the time of physical delivery and the fair value of the contracts is recorded as a current or
long-term derivative asset or liability. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the
derivative assets and liabilities are recorded on a net basis in Other Comprehensive Income
(Loss) and subsequently reclassified to direct energy cost in our consolidated Statement of
Operations as the power is delivered. To the extent that the hedges are not effective, the
ineffective portion of the changes in fair market value is recorded currently in direct
energy costs. We intend to continue to use financial derivative instruments (such as swaps,
options and futures) as an effective way of assisting in managing our price risk in energy
supply procurement. Additionally, we utilize cash flow hedge accounting, where appropriate.
We anticipated the normal purchase and normal sale exception will again be available to us in
the third quarter of fiscal 2006. 

We also utilize other financial derivatives, primarily swaps, options and futures to hedge
our commodity price risks. Certain derivative instruments, which are designated as economic
hedges or as speculative, do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and require current
period mark-to-market accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 133, with fair market value
being used to determine the related income or expense that is recorded each quarter in the
statement of operations. As a result, the changes in fair value of derivatives that do not
meet the requirements of normal purchase and normal sales accounting treatment or cash flow
hedge accounting are recorded in operating income (loss) and as a current or long-term
derivative asset or liability. The subsequent changes in the fair value of these contracts
could result in operating income (loss) volatility as the fair value of the changes are
recorded on a net basis in direct energy costs in our consolidated statement of operations
for each period. 

We determined that our documentation during fiscal 2005 was inadequate for the contracts that
were designated for cash flow hedge accounting treatment pursuant to the provisions of SFAS
No. 133, resulting in current period mark-to-market accounting for all of our electricity
forward physical contracts and financial derivatives which had previously been designated as
cash flow hedges in fiscal 2005. 

Independent System Operator Costs    Included in direct energy costs, along with
electricity that we purchase, are scheduling coordination costs, certain real-time net
power purchase and sale cost, and other ISO fees and charges. The actual ISO costs are not
finalized until a settlement process by the ISO is performed for each day s activities for
all grid participants. Prior to the completion of settlement (which may take from one to
several months), we estimate these costs based on historical trends and preliminary
settlement information. The historical trends and preliminary information may differ from
actual costs resulting in the need to adjust the previous estimates. 

Transportation and Delivery Costs    Included in direct energy costs, along with natural
gas that we purchase, are interstate pipeline costs and utility service charges. These fees
are recognized in the month incurred and settled in the following month. 

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts    We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for
estimated losses resulting from non-payment of customer billings. If the financial
condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability
to make payments, additional allowances may be required. 

Unbilled Receivables    Our customers are billed monthly during the month on a
sequential basis or on a meter read cycle. Unbilled receivables represent the amount of
electricity and natural gas delivered to customers through the end of each reporting
period, but not yet billed. Unbilled receivables from sales are estimated by us to be the
number of kilowatt-hours or dekatherms delivered, but not yet billed, multiplied by the
current average sales price per kilowatt-hour or dekatherms as applicable. 

Inventory    Inventory represents natural gas in storage as required by state regulatory
bodies and contractual obligations under customer choice programs. Inventory is stated at
the lower of average cost or market. 

Legal Matters    From time to time, we may be involved in litigation matters. We
regularly evaluate our exposure to threatened or pending litigation and other business
contingencies and accrue for estimated losses on such matters in accordance with SFAS No.
5,  Accounting for Contingencies.  As additional information 

17

Table of Contents   

about current or future litigation or other contingencies becomes available, management
assesses whether such information warrants the recording of additional expense. Such
additional expense could potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of
operations and financial position. On February 24, 2006, we received a Demand for Arbitration
relating to the Sales Agency Agreement between American Communications Network, or ACN, and
Commerce Energy, Inc. alleging the Commerce is liable for actual, consequential, restitution
and punitive damages on a variety of causes of actions with respect to alleged future
commissions arising after the termination of the Sales Agency Agreement by ACN. At this time,
management believes that no accrual for this matter is warranted. See  Factors That May
Affect Future Results   Our results of operations and financial condition could be affected
by pending and future litigation.  

Results of Operations 

In the following comparative analysis, all percentages are calculated based on dollars in
thousands. The states of Pennsylvania and New Jersey are within the same ISO territory and
procurement of power is not managed separately, therefore, they are referred to as the Pennsylvania
market below.

Three Months Ended January 31, 2006 Compared to Three Months Ended January 31, 2005  

The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands).

The loss from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2006 increased $1.9
million from the comparable prior year period reflecting a $4.6 million decline in gross profit
partly offset by a $2.7 million reduction in operating expenses. Gross profit for the three months
ended January 31, 2005 includes a gain of $7.2 million resulting from a January, 2005 sale of
electricity supply contracts for the Pennsylvania market.

Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 totaled $3.8 million, a 55% decrease from
$8.4 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2005. For the second quarter of fiscal
2006, gross profit was comprised of $5.1 million from
electricity and a loss of $1.3 million from natural gas.  Gross profit from electricity for the second quarter of fiscal 2006
declined $3.3 million from the comparable quarter of fiscal
2005, reflecting the impact of the gain on sale of the Pennsylvania
electricity supply contracts of $7.2 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2005 and partly offset by higher variable electricity sales prices
during the second quarter of fiscal 2006. The gross margin loss in the natural gas
includes a mark-to-market loss of $2.7 million on supply contracts entered in
December 2005, which decreased in market value due to a significant decline in natural gas prices
in January 2006. The decline in market value and related loss on these contracts required
mark-to-market accounting treatment under SFAS 133. The reduction in quarter over quarter operating
expenses primarily reflects lower employment related settlement and severance costs.

18

Table of Contents   

Net revenue  

The following table summarizes retail net revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2006
and 2005 (dollars in thousands):

Net revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2006 increased 19% from the prior
comparable quarter. This increase reflects a $30.5 million increase in net revenues from markets
(primarily natural gas) added in the February 2005 acquisition of the ACN Energy assets and
customers, partly offset by a $9.3 million decrease in revenues related to the January 2005 sale of
electricity contracts in Pennsylvania.

Retail electricity sales for the three months ended January 31, 2006 were $44.1 million just
slightly below the same period in 2005, as higher sales prices offset a 38% decrease in sales
volume. For the three months ending January 31, 2006, we sold 421 million kWh, at an average retail
price per kWh of $0.105, as compared to 681 million kWh sold at an average retail price per kWh of
$0.065 for the comparable prior year period. California sales were 171 million kWh at an average
price per kWh of $0.096; compared to 190 million kWh sold at an average price per kWh of $0.075.
Pennsylvania and New Jersey sales were 143 million kWh at an average price per kWh of $0.120,
compared to 301 million kWh at an average price of $0.062. Sales in Michigan decreased to 76
million kWh at an average price per kWh of $0.088 in 2006, compared to 190 million kWh at an
average price per kWh of $0.060. Texas sales were 31 million kWh at an average price per kWh of
$0.122.

We acquired our natural gas business in six states in February 2005. For the three months
ending January 31, 2006, natural gas sales were $26.8 million. We sold approximately 2.1 million
dekatherms, or DTH, during this period at an average price of $12.60 per DTH.

We had approximately 71,000 retail electricity customers at January 31, 2006, a decrease of
24% from 94,000 at January 31, 2005. The majority of the decline in our retail electricity
customers occurred in our Pennsylvania market where, beginning in April 2005, we returned
approximately 21,000 residential and small commercial customers to the incumbent utility as we
could no longer offer competitive service. This customer attrition in our retail electricity also
largely reflects the impact of increased sales prices to our customers resulting from higher
wholesale electricity supply and transmission costs without corresponding price increases from
incumbent utilities due to the lack of market responsive ratemaking, and a lagging regulatory
approval process. Additionally, the decline in our customer base is partly attributed to our focus
on increasing our commercial and industrial base. We also had approximately 57,000 natural gas
customers at January 31, 2006.

19

Table of Contents   

Direct Energy Costs  

Direct energy costs, which are recognized concurrently with related energy sales, include the
commodity cost of natural gas and electricity, electricity transmission costs from the ISOs,
transportation costs from LDCs and pipelines, other fees and costs incurred from various
energy-related service providers and energy-related taxes that cannot be passed directly through to
the customer.

Direct energy costs for the three months ended January 31, 2006 totaled $40.9 million and
$28.0 million for electricity and natural gas, respectively.

Electricity costs averaged $0.093 per kWh for the three months ended January 31, 2006, as
compared to $0.066 per kWh for the same period last year. This increase of $.027 per kWh or 41% was
due to large increases in wholesale electricity pricing driven primarily by increased wholesale
natural gas (used to produce much of the electricity we buy) prices. Direct energy costs for
natural gas for the three months ended January 31, 2006 averaged $13.20 per DTH.

Operating Expenses  

Selling and marketing expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2006 were $0.5 million higher
than the comparable three months ended January 31, 2005 due primarily to increased commission
costs. General and administrative expenses decreased $3.2 million from the comparable quarter of
fiscal 2005 reflecting a $4.1 million decrease in employment related settlements and severance
costs and lower legal expenses, offset in part by $1.6 million of added direct costs related to the
acquired operations of the ACN energy assets.

Initial Formation Litigation Expenses  

In the three months ended January 31, 2005, we incurred $0.2 million of initial formation
litigation costs related to our initial formation compared to no such costs during the three months
ended January 31, 2006. Initial formation litigation expenses include legal and litigation costs
associated with the initial capital raising efforts by former employees, various board member
matters, and the legal complications arising from those activities.

Benefit from Income Taxes  

No provision for, or benefit from, income taxes was recorded for the three months ended
January 31, 2006 or 2005. We provided valuation allowances equal to our calculated tax due to the
uncertainty that we would realize these tax benefits in the foreseeable future.

20

Table of Contents   

Six Months Ended January 31, 2006 Compared to Six Months Ended January 31, 2005  

The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the six months ended January
31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands).

The loss from operations for the six months ended January 31, 2006 increased $3.2 million
from the comparable prior year period due primarily to a decline in gross profit. Gross profit for
the six months ended January 31, 2006 was $12 million, a 23% decrease from $15.6 million for the
same period in fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily due to the $7.2 million gain on the sale of
the electricity forward supply contracts in Pennsylvania in January 2005 offset by higher
electricity sale prices in California and Pennsylvania and a $0.6 million gross profit contribution
from the ACN Energy assets. Operating expenses decreased slightly as lower severance and employment
related settlement costs were largely offset by added direct costs related to the acquired
operations of the ACN energy assets.

Net Revenue  

The following table summarizes retail net revenues for the six months ended January 31, 2006
and 2005 (dollars in thousands):

Net revenues for the six months ended January 31, 2006 were $137.0 million, a 15%
increase compared to net revenues of $119.5 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005. The
increase in net revenue was primarily

21

Table of Contents   

attributable to the addition of the ACN Energy Assets partly offset by the impact of lower
sales volumes in the Company s traditional electricity markets in Pennsylvania and Michigan.

Retail electricity sales for the six months ended January 31, 2006 were $93.8 million, a 3%
decrease from the same period in 2005. For the six months ending January 31, 2006, we sold 972
million kWh, at an average retail price per kWh of $0.097, as compared to 1,456 million kWh sold at
an average retail price per kWh of $0.066 in the same prior year period. California sales were 376
million kWh at an average price per kWh of $0.091; compared to 436 million kWh sold at an average
price per kWh of $0.076. Pennsylvania and New Jersey sales were 334 million kWh at an average price
per kWh of $0.105, compared to 620 million kWh at an average price of $0.064. Sales in Michigan
decreased to 186 million kWh at an average price per kWh of $0.078 in 2006, compared to 399 million
kWh at an average price per kWh of $0.058. Texas sales were 76 million kWh at an average price per
kWh of $0.130.

We acquired our natural gas business in six states in February, 2005. For the six months
ending January 31, 2006, natural gas sales were $35.7 million. We sold approximately 2.8 million
dekatherms, or DTH, during this period at an average price of $12.57 per DTH.

Excess electricity sales decreased to $6.9 million in the six months ended January 31, 2006
compared to 22.0 million during the same period in 2005. This decrease reflects a one-time sale in
January 2005 of $9.3 million of electricity supply contracts in Pennsylvania and lower sales of
excess electricity in California and Pennsylvania.

We had approximately 71,000 retail electricity customers at January 31, 2006, a decrease of
24% from 94,000 at January 31, 2005. This customer attrition in our retail electricity markets
largely reflects the impact of increased sales prices to our customers resulting from higher
wholesale electricity supply and transmission costs without corresponding price increases from
incumbent utilities due to the lack of market responsive ratemaking and a lagging regulatory
approval process. The majority of the decline in our retail electricity customers occurred in our
Pennsylvania market whereby, beginning in April 2005, we returned approximately 21,000 residential
and small commercial customers to the incumbent utility since we could no longer offer competitive
service. Additionally, the decline in our customer base is partly attributed to our focus on
increasing our commercial and industrial base. We also had approximately 57,000 natural gas
customers at January 31, 2006.

Direct Energy Costs  

Direct energy costs, which are recognized concurrently with related energy sales, include the
commodity cost of natural gas and electricity, electricity transmission costs from the ISOs,
transportation costs from LDCs and pipelines, other fees and costs incurred from various
energy-related service providers and energy-related taxes that cannot be passed directly through to
the customer.

Direct energy costs for the six months ended January 31, 2006 totaled $89.3 million and $35.7
million for electricity and natural gas, respectively.

Electricity costs averaged $0.084 per kWh for the six months ended January 31, 2006, as
compared to $0.062 per kWh for the same period last year. Direct energy costs for natural gas for
the six months ended January 31, 2006 averaged $12.60 per DTH.

Operating Expenses  

Selling and marketing expenses for the six months ended January 31, 2006 were $0.2 million higher
than the comparable six months ended January 31, 2005 due to added commission costs related to the
acquisition of the ACN operations slightly offset by lower payroll expenses. General and
administrative expenses for the six months ended January 31, 2006 decreased $0.6 million from the
six months ended January 31, 2005. This decrease reflects $4.1 million in employment related
settlements and severance costs for the second quarter fiscal 2005 and lower payroll expenses
related to a reduction in headcount in 2006, offset in part by $3.4 million of added direct costs
related to the acquired operations of the ACN energy assets.

22

Table of Contents   

Initial Formation Litigation Expenses  

In the six months ended January 31, 2005, we incurred $1.6 million of initial formation
litigation costs related to Commonwealth Energy Corporation s formation compared to no such costs
in the six months ended January 31, 2006. Initial formation litigation expenses include legal and
litigation costs associated with the initial capital raising efforts by former Commonwealth Energy
Corporation employees, various board member matters, and the legal complications arising from those
activities.

Benefit from Income Taxes  

No provision for, or benefit from income taxes was recorded for the six months ended January
31, 2006 or 2005. Starting in fiscal 2004, and continuing through the current period, we
established a valuation allowance equal to our calculated tax benefit, because we believed it was
not certain that we would realize these tax benefits in the foreseeable future.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

As of January 31, 2006, cash and cash equivalents were $13.4 million compared to $33.3 million
at July 31, 2005. This decrease of $20.0 million reflects using cash to fund a $10.0 million
increase in accounts receivable, $2.3 million increase in letters of credit, $4.7 million increase
in prepaid energy, and a $1.2 million decrease in accounts payable. These changes in part reflect
the seasonal nature of natural gas sales that require inventory buildup and the funding of
additional purchases during the winter months. Restricted cash and cash equivalents were $10.5
million, compared to $8.2 million at July 31, 2005. Our principal sources of liquidity to fund
ongoing operations were existing cash and cash equivalents.

Cash flow used in operations for the six months ended January 31, 2006 was $13.6 million,
compared to the cash flow used in operations of $3.2 million in the six months ended January 31,
2005 primarily because of the items discussed in the preceding paragraph.

Cash flow used in investing activities for the six months ended January 31, 2006 consisted of
capital expenditures.

The Company does not have open lines of credit for direct unsecured borrowings or letters of
credit. Credit terms from our suppliers of electricity often require us to post collateral against
our energy purchases and against our mark-to-market exposure with certain of our suppliers. We
currently finance these collateral obligations with our available cash. If we are required to post
such additional security, a portion of our cash would become restricted, which could adversely
affect our liquidity. As of January 31, 2006, we had $10.5 million in restricted cash to secure
letters of credit required by suppliers and other entities, and $9.9 million in deposits used as
collateral in connection with energy purchase agreements.

Based upon our current plans, level of operations and business conditions, we believe that our
cash and cash equivalents, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our
capital requirements and working capital needs for the foreseeable future. However, there can be no
assurance that we will not be required to seek other financing in the future or that such
financing, if required, will be available on terms satisfactory to us.

Contractual Obligations  

For the six months ended January 31, 2006, we have entered into additional electricity
purchase contracts in the normal course of doing business for $33.8 million. These contracts are
for one year or less and are with various suppliers.

23

Table of Contents   

Factors That May Affect Future Results 

If competitive restructuring of the retail energy market is delayed or does not result in viable
competitive market rules, our business will be adversely affected.  

The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, has maintained a strong commitment to the
deregulation of wholesale electricity markets. The new provisions of EPA 2005 should serve to
further enhance the reliability of the electric transmission grid which our electric marketing
operations depend on for delivery of power to our customers. This movement at the federal level has
in part helped spur deregulation measures in the states at the retail level. Twenty-three states
and the District of Columbia have either enacted enabling legislation or issued a regulatory order
to implement retail access. In 18 of these states, retail access is either currently available to
some or all customers, or will soon be available. However, in many of these markets the market
rules adopted have not resulted in energy service providers being able to compete successfully with
the local utilities and customer switching rates have been low. Our business model depends on other
favorable markets opening under viable competitive rules in a timely manner. In any particular
market, there are a number of rules that will ultimately determine the attractiveness of any
market. Markets that we enter may have both favorable and unfavorable rules. If the trend towards
competitive restructuring of retail energy markets does not continue or is delayed or reversed, our
business prospects and financial condition could be materially adversely impaired.

Retail energy market restructuring has been and will continue to be a complicated regulatory
process, with competing interests advanced not only by relevant state and federal utility
regulators, but also by state legislators, federal legislators, local utilities, consumer advocacy
groups and other market participants. As a result, the extent to which there are legitimate
competitive opportunities for alternative energy suppliers in a given jurisdiction may vary widely
and we cannot be assured that regulatory structures will offer us competitive opportunities to sell
energy to consumers on a profitable basis. The regulatory process could be negatively impacted by a
number of factors, including interruptions of service and significant or rapid price increases. The
legislative and regulatory processes in some states take prolonged periods of time. In a number of
jurisdictions, it may be many years from the date legislation is enacted until the retail markets
are truly open for competition.

Other aspects of EPA 2005, such as the repeal of PUHCA 1935 and replacing it with PUHCA 2005,
also may impact our business to the extent FERC does not continue the SEC s precedent of not
regulating electric and gas marketers under PUHCA. A rulemaking implementing PUHCA 2005 is
currently pending before FERC. If marketers and their parent companies and affiliates are to be
regulated under PUHCA 2005, FERC may have access to their books and records and has oversight of
their affiliate transactions. Various parties participating in FERC rulemaking have urged FERC not
to so regulate marketers and other entities that do not own or operate gas or electric facilities.

In addition, although most retail energy market restructuring has been conducted at the state
and local levels, bills have been proposed in Congress in the past that would preempt state law
concerning the restructuring of the retail energy markets. Although none of these initiatives has
been successful, we cannot assure stockholders that federal legislation will not be passed in the
future that could materially adversely affect our business.

We face many uncertainties that may cause substantial operating losses and we cannot assure
stockholders that we can achieve and maintain profitability.  

We intend to increase our operating expenses to develop and expand our business, including
brand development, marketing and other promotional activities and the continued development of our
billing, customer care and power procurement infrastructure. Our ability to operate profitably will
depend on, among other things:

our ability to attract and to retain a critical mass of customers at a reasonable cost; 

our ability to continue to develop and maintain internal corporate organization and systems; 

the continued competitive restructuring of retail energy markets with viable competitive market rules; 

24

Table of Contents   

our ability to effectively manage our energy procurement and shaping requirements, and
to sell our energy at a sufficient profit margin; and 

our ability to obtain and retain necessary credit necessary to support future growth
and profitability. 

We may have difficulty obtaining a sufficient number of customers.  

We anticipate that we will incur significant costs as we enter new markets and pursue
customers by utilizing a variety of marketing methods. In order for us to recover these expenses,
we must attract and retain a large number of customers to our service.

We may experience difficulty attracting customers because many customers may be reluctant to
switch to a new supplier for a commodity as critical to their well-being as electricity and natural
gas. A major focus of our marketing efforts will be to convince customers that we are a reliable
provider with sufficient resources to meet our commitments. If our marketing strategy is not
successful, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially
adversely affected.

We depend upon internally developed, and, in the future will rely on vendor-developed, systems and
processes to provide several critical functions for our business, and the loss of these functions
could materially adversely impact our business.  

We have developed our own systems and processes to operate our back-office functions,
including customer enrollment, metering, forecasting, settlement and billing. We are currently in
the process of replacing a number of our internally developed legacy software systems with
vendor-developed systems. Problems that arise with the performance of such back-office functions
could result in increased expenditures, delays in the launch of our commercial operations into new
markets, or unfavorable customer experiences that could materially adversely affect our business
strategy. Any interruption of these services could also be disruptive to our business. As we
transition from our own systems to new vendor-developed systems, we may incur duplicative expenses
for a period of time and we may experience installation and integration issues with the new systems
or delays in the implementation of the new systems. If we experience some or all of these new
system implementation risks, we may not be able to establish a sufficient operating history for
Sarbanes-Oxley 404 Attestation requirements, which we expect we must meet by no later than fiscal
year ending July 31, 2007.

Substantial fluctuations in electricity and natural gas prices or the cost of transmitting and
distributing electricity and natural gas could have a material adverse affect on us.  

To provide electricity and natural gas to our customers, we must, from time to time, purchase
the energy commodity in the short-term or spot wholesale energy markets, which can be highly
volatile. In particular, the wholesale electricity market can experience large price fluctuations
during peak load periods. Furthermore, to the extent that we enter into contracts with customers
that require us to provide electricity and natural gas at a fixed price over an extended period of
time, and to the extent that we have not purchased the commodity to cover those commitments, we may
incur losses caused by rising wholesale prices. Periods of rising prices may reduce our ability to
compete with local utilities because their regulated rates may not immediately increase to reflect
these increased costs. Energy Service Providers like us take on the risk of purchasing power for an
uncertain load and if the load does not materialize as forecast, it leaves us in a long position
that would be resold into the wholesale electricity and natural gas market. Sales of this surplus
electricity could be at prices below our cost. Long positions of natural gas must be stored in
inventory and are subject to the lower of cost or market valuations that can produce unrealized
losses. Conversely, if unanticipated load appears that may result in an insufficient supply of
electricity or natural gas, we would need to purchase the additional supply. These purchases could
be at prices that are higher than our sales price to our customers. Either situation could create
losses for us if we are exposed to the price volatility of the wholesale spot markets. Any of these
contingencies could substantially increase our costs of operation. Such factors could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition.

We are dependent on local utilities for distribution of electricity and natural gas to our
customers over their distribution networks. If these local utilities are unable to properly operate
their distribution networks, or if the operation of their distribution networks is interrupted for
periods of time, we could be unable to deliver electricity or

25

Table of Contents   

natural gas to our customers during those interruptions. This would result in lost revenue to
us, which could adversely impact the results of our operations.

If our net worth declines, our energy suppliers who extend credit to us may demand that we
pledge additional cash or other collateral to support extensions of credit to us, which could
adversely affect our liquidity and our operations.  

Credit terms from our energy suppliers often require us to post collateral
against our energy purchases and against our mark-to-market exposures with certain of our
suppliers. If our net worth declines, our suppliers could require us to post additional
collateral to support our energy purchases. Such action could adversely affect our liquidity and our operations.

We do not utilize bank lines of credit at this time and may have limited access to additional
credit from banks and commodity suppliers.  

As of January 31, 2006, we believe that we have adequate cash and liquidity and supplier lines
of credit to sustain our business operations in the near term. To expand our business in the
future, we will likely pursue external financing from banks, other financial institutions and
commodity suppliers. In connection with financing arrangements, we may choose to pledge our
accounts receivable and commodity inventory or commodity contracts as collateral to support the
extension of credit. Additionally, we have issued and will continue to issue parent company
guarantees of subsidiary obligations for commercial credit in connection with the arrangements for
unsecured credit from commodity suppliers. Such action could adversely affect our liquidity and our
operations.

If the wholesale price of electricity decreases, we may be required to post letters of credit for
margin to secure our obligations under our long term energy contracts.  

As the price of the electricity we purchase under long-term contracts is fixed over the term
of the contracts, if the market price of wholesale electricity decreases below the contract price,
the power generator may require us to post margin in the form of a letter of credit, or other
collateral, to protect themselves against our potential default on the contract. If we are required
to post such security, a portion of our cash would become restricted, which could adversely affect
our liquidity.

Some suppliers of electricity have been experiencing deteriorating credit quality.  

We continue to monitor the credit quality of our energy suppliers to attempt to reduce the
impact of any potential counterparty default. As of January 31, 2006, the majority of our
counterparties are rated investment grade or above by the major rating agencies. These ratings are
subject to change at any time with no advance warning. Deterioration in the credit quality of our
energy suppliers could have an adverse impact on our sources of electricity purchases.

We are required to rely on utilities with whom we compete to perform some functions for our
customers.  

Under the regulatory structures adopted in most jurisdictions, we are required to enter into
agreements with local utilities for use of the local distribution systems, and for the creation and
operation of functional interfaces necessary for us to serve our customers. Any delay in these
negotiations or our inability to enter into reasonable agreements with those utilities could delay
or negatively impact our ability to serve customers in those jurisdictions. This could have a
material negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We are dependent on local utilities for maintenance of the infrastructure through which
electricity and natural gas is delivered to our customers. We are limited in our ability to control
the level of service the utilities provide to our customers. Any infrastructure failure that
interrupts or impairs delivery of electricity or natural gas to our customers could have a negative
effect on the satisfaction of our customers with our service, which could have a material adverse
effect on our business. Regulations in many markets require that the services of reading our
customers  energy meters and the billing and collection process be retained by the local utility.
The local utility s systems and procedures may limit or slow down our ability to add customers.

We are required to rely on utilities with whom we compete to provide us accurate and timely data.  

26

Table of Contents   

In some states, we are required to rely on the local utility to provide us with our customers 
energy usage data and to pay us for our customers  usage based on what the local utility collects
from our customers. We may be limited in our ability or unable to confirm the accuracy of the
information provided by the local utility. In addition, we are unable to control when we receive
customer payments from the local utility. If we do not receive payments from the local utility on a
timely basis, our working capital may be impaired. In the event we do not receive timely or
accurate usage data, our ability to generate timely and accurate bills to our customers will be
adversely affected which, in turn, will impact the ability of our customers to pay bills in a
timely manner.

We are subject to federal and state regulations in our electricity and natural gas marketing
business and the rules and regulations of regional Independent System Operators, or ISOs, in our
electricity business.  

The rules under which we operate are imposed upon us by federal and state regulators, the
regional ISOs and interstate pipelines. The rules are subject to change, challenge and revision,
including revision after the fact.

In California, the FERC and other regulatory and judicial bodies continue to examine the
behavior of market participants during the California Energy Crisis of 2000 and 2001, and to
recalculate what market clearing prices should have or might have been under alternative scenarios
of behavior by market participants. In the event the historical costs of market operations were to
be reallocated among market participants, we cannot predict whether the results would be favorable
or unfavorable for us nor can we predict the amount of such adjustments. The payment or receipt of
adjustments, if any, will likely be conducted between FERC, the California ISO and our contracted
scheduling coordinator for the period in question, Automated Power Exchange, or APX. APX served as
the direct interface with the now defunct California Power Exchange for the sale and purchase of
some volumes of power by the Company during 2000 and 2001.

In Pennsylvania, beginning in December 2004, the ISO established a Seams Elimination Charge
Adjustment, or SECA, to compensate transmission owners for the change in the Regional Through and
Out Rates, or RTOR, which eliminated some transmission charges and revenues from the ISO system
operations. The impact on us, if any, is uncertain at this time. Compensatory payments to
transmission owners are likely, but the recovery mechanism from customers, utilities or other load
serving entities, such as us, is uncertain. We can not predict the amount of these adjustments, if
any, that it might be charged at this time.

In some markets, we are required to bear credit risk and billing responsibility for our customers.  

In some markets, we are responsible for the billing and collection functions for our
customers. In these markets, we may be limited in our ability to terminate service to customers who
are delinquent in payment. Even if we terminate service to customers who fail to pay their utility
bill in a timely manner, we may remain liable to our suppliers of electricity or natural gas for
the cost of the electricity or natural gas and to the local utilities for services related to the
transmission and distribution of electricity or natural gas to those customers. The failure of our
customers to pay their bills in a timely manner or our failure to maintain adequate billing and
collection programs could materially adversely affect our business.

Our revenues and results of operations are subject to market risks that are beyond our control.  

We sell electricity and natural gas that we purchase from third-party power generation
companies and natural gas producers to our retail customers on a contractual or monthly basis. We
are not guaranteed any rate of return through regulated rates, and our revenues and results of
operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for electricity and
natural gas in our regional markets. These market prices may fluctuate substantially over
relatively short periods of time. These factors could have an adverse impact on our revenues and
results of operations.

Volatility in market prices for electricity and natural gas results from multiple factors,
including:

weather conditions, including hydrological conditions such as precipitation, snow pack and stream flow; 

seasonality; 

unexpected changes in customer usage; 

27

Table of Contents   

transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; 

planned and unplanned plant or transmission line outages; 

demand for electricity; 

natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal supply availability to generators
from whom we purchase electricity; natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other
catastrophic events; and 

federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. 

We may experience difficulty in successfully integrating and managing acquired businesses and in
realizing anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner  

In February 2005, we completed an acquisition of assets in connection with the ACN Energy
Transaction. The ultimate success of this acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to
realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating the
assets and the relationships acquired in the ACN Energy Transaction into our existing businesses.

If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately
report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders
could lose confidence in our financial reporting which would harm our business and the trading
price of our stock.  

Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and
effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our
operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover,
areas of our internal controls that need improvement. For example, in January 2005, we sold
electricity commodity supply contracts related to a strategic realignment of our customer portfolio
in the Pennsylvania electricity market and the discontinuation of service to certain classes of
residential and small commercial customers. As a result of timing issues related to realigning the
portfolio and inaccurately forecasting the resulting required electricity supply, we had
transitional electricity supply obligations which could have been served more cost effectively with
the original supply contract rather than with the current market cost of the replacement power. In
the execution of this portfolio realignment, we observed deficiencies in our internal controls
relating to monitoring the operational progress of the realignment. These internal control
deficiencies constituted reportable conditions, and collectively, a material weakness that caused
us to restate our second quarter reported results. In connection with the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2005, we determined that (a)
certain electricity forward physical contracts and financial derivatives designated as cash flow
hedges lacked adequate documentation of our method of measurement and testing of hedge
effectiveness to meet the cash flow hedge requirements of SFAS No. 133 and (b) a forward physical
contract and several financial derivative contracts had been inappropriately accounted for as
exempt from hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. These errors in the proper application of the
provisions of SFAS No. 133 required us to restate our previously reported results for each of the
first three quarters in fiscal 2005 and led us to conclude and report the existence of a material
weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. We purchase substantially all of our
power and natural gas under forward physical delivery contracts, which are defined as commodity
derivative contracts under SFAS No. 133. We also utilize other financial derivatives, primarily
swaps, options and futures, to hedge our price risks. Accordingly, proper accounting for these
contracts is very important to our overall ability to report timely and accurate financial results.

We have devoted significant resources to remediate and improve our internal controls. Although
we believe that these efforts have strengthened our internal controls and addressed the concerns
that gave rise to the reportable conditions and material weaknesses in fiscal 2005 and 2006, we are
continuing to work to improve our internal controls, particularly in the area of energy accounting.
We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate
controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement
required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm
our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal
controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which
could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock.

28

Table of Contents   

Investor confidence and share value may be adversely impacted if our independent auditors are
unable to provide us with the attestation of the adequacy of our internal controls over financial
reporting as of July 31, 2007, as applicable, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002.  

As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange
Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on our
internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K that contains an
assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In
addition, our independent auditors must attest to and report on management s assessment of the
effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement will first apply
to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2007. How companies should be
implementing these new requirements, including internal control reforms, if any, to comply with
Section 404 s requirements, and how independent auditors will apply these new requirements and test
companies  internal controls, are subject to uncertainty. Although we are diligently and vigorously
reviewing our internal controls over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the new
Section 404 requirements, if our independent auditors are not satisfied with our internal controls
over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or
reviewed, or if the independent auditors interpret the requirements, rules or regulations
differently than we do, then they may decline to attest to management s assessment or may issue a
report that is qualified. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due
to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately
could negatively impact the market price of our shares.

We have initiated a company-wide review of our internal controls over financial reporting as
part of the process of preparing for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
and as a complement to our existing overall program of internal controls over financial reporting.
As a result of this on-going review, we have made numerous improvements to the design and
effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting through the period ended January
31, 2006. We anticipate that improvements will continue to be made.

Our results of operations and financial condition could be affected by pending and future
litigation.  

On February 24, 2006, we received a Demand for Arbitration relating to the Sales Agency
Agreement between American Communications Network, or ACN, and Commerce Energy, Inc. alleging that
Commerce is liable for actual and consequential damages estimated to be no less than $32,286,564,
restitution estimated to be no less than $6,776,009 and punitive damages estimated to be no less
than $45,395,438 with respect to alleged future commissions arising after the termination of the
Sales Agency Agreement by ACN. Although we
intend to pursue the claims vigorously in arbitration, we cannot predict the outcome of this
arbitration or any litigation. In addition, we may become subject to additional lawsuits in the
future. If we are held liable for significant damages in any arbitration or lawsuit, our operations
and financial condition may be harmed. In addition, we could incur substantial expenses in
connection with any such litigation, including substantial fees for attorneys and other
professional advisors. These expenses could adversely affect our operations and cash position if
they are material in amount. In addition, any future litigation could result in the diversion of
management s attention from the implementation of our business strategy.

Item 3.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  

There have been no material changes to information called for by this Item 3 of Part II to
this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q from the disclosures set forth in Part II, Item 7A in the
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2005.

As of January 31, 2006, we had 96% of our forecasted fixed-priced energy load through July 31,
2006 covered through either fixed price power purchases with counterparties, or price protected
through financial hedges.

29

Table of Contents   

Item 4.    Controls and Procedures.  

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded, based upon their
evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report, that our disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined under Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) are effective to ensure that all information required to be
disclosed by the Company in the reports filed or submitted by it under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules
and forms, and include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the Company s
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate,
and allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

No change in the Company s internal control over financial reporting occurred during the
period covered by this Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.

PART II   OTHER INFORMATION 

Item 1.    Legal Proceedings.  

On February 24, 2006 the Company received a Demand for Arbitration from ACN under the Sales
Agency Agreement previously entered into by Commerce and the Company with respect to alleged future
commissions arising after the termination of the Sales Agency Agreement by ACN, effective February
9, 2006. The Demand for Arbitration alleges claims for anticipatory breach of contract, unjust
enrichment, tortuous interference with prospective economic advantage and prima facie tort alleging
actual and compensatory damages estimated to be no less than $32,286,564, restitution estimated to
be no less than $6,776,009 and punitive damages estimated to be no less than $45,395,438. The
Company intends to vigorously defend this matter.

The Company currently is, and from time to time may become, involved in litigation concerning
claims arising out of the Company s operations in the normal course of business. While the Company
cannot predict the ultimate outcome of its pending matters or how they will affect the Company s
results of operations or financial position, the Company s management currently does not expect any
of the legal proceedings to which the Company is currently a party to have a material adverse
effect on its results of operations or financial position.

Item 1A.    Risk Factors.  

None.

30

Table of Contents   

Item 2.    Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.  

Stock Repurchases 

The following table details our common stock repurchases for the three months ended January
31, 2006:

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

(1) 
       
     Pursuant to Settlement Agreement and General Release Agreements dated November 17, 2005
entered into separately with each of Peter Weigand and Richard Boughrum, the Company
repurchased 994,479 and 300,000 shares of the Company s common stock from Messrs. Weigand
and Boughrum, respectively, for a price of $1.50 per share. Each Settlement and General
Release Agreement became effective on November 25, 2005. In each case, one-half of the
purchase price was paid on November 28, 2005 and the remaining half is being paid pursuant
to a promissory note paid in five equal monthly installments
commencing in December 2005. In addition, pursuant to the
respective Settlement Agreements, Mr. Weigand s and Mr.
Boughrum s options to purchase common stock of the Company, 1,100,000 in the aggregate, were cancelled. 

(2) 
       
     In connection with his Settlement Agreement and General Release entered into on
November 17, 2005, Mr. Weigand sold an aggregate of 120,000 shares of the Company s common
stock to two independent directors of the Company, 100,000 shares to Mr. Charles E. Bayless
for $1.50 per share and 20,000 shares to Mr. Mark Juergensen for $1.50 per share. Messrs.
Bayless and Juergensen each paid the full purchase price in their transaction with Mr.
Weigand on November 28, 2005. 

(3) 
       
     Pursuant to a Settlement Agreement and General Release Agreement dated November 17,
2005 entered into by and among the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiary, Commerce Energy,
Inc. and Eric Alam, the Company repurchased 174,926 shares of the Company s common stock
from Mr. Alam for a price of $1.50 per share. Mr. Alam was paid one-half of the purchase
price on November 28, 2005 and the remainder on
February 27, 2006. In addition, pursuant to the Settlement
Agreement, all of Mr. Alam s options to purchase common stock of the Company, 133,333 in the aggregate, were cancelled. 

31

Table of Contents   

Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.  

The results of the voting at the Company s annual meeting of stockholders held on January 26,
2006 were previously reported on a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 1, 2006.

Item 5.    Other Information  

On March 10, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company amended and restated the Company s
Non-Employee Director Compensation Policy to (i) provide for a supplemental quarterly retainer of
$4,000 for the non-executive Chairman of the Board and (ii) clarify the policy regarding
reimbursement of travel expenses related to meeting attendance. A copy of the Amended and Restated
Non-Employee Director Compensation Policy, effective March 10, 2006, is attached hereto as Exhibit
99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.

32

Table of Contents   

Item 6.    Exhibits.  

The exhibits listed below are hereby filed with the Commission as part of this Report.

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  

3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Commerce Energy Group, Inc.,
previously filed with the Commission on July 6, 2004 as Exhibit 3.3 to Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form 8-A and incorporated herein by reference. 

3.2

Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Commerce
Energy Group, Inc. dated July 1, 2004 previously filed with the Commission on July 6,
2004 as Exhibit 3.4 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form 8-A
and incorporated herein by reference. 

3.3

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Commerce Energy Group, Inc., previously filed with the
Commission on July 6, 2004 as Exhibit 3.6 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Registration
Statement on Form 8-A and incorporated herein by reference. 

Material Contracts Relating to Management Compensation Plans or Arrangements 

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  

10.1

Settlement Agreement and General Release dated November 17, 2005 by and among Peter T.
Weigand, Commerce Energy Group, Inc. and Commerce Energy, Inc., previously filed with
the Commission on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.1 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.2

Promissory Note dated November 17, 2005 by and between Commerce Energy Group, Inc. and
Peter T. Weigand, previously filed with the Commission on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit
99.2 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein
by reference. 

10.3

Voting and Standstill Agreement dated November 17, 2005, by and between Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. and Peter T. Weigand, previously filed with the Commission on November 23,
2005 as Exhibit 99.3 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.4

Amendment No. 1 to Executive Employment Agreement dated November 17, 2005, by and among
Commerce Energy Group, Inc., Commerce Energy, Inc. and Peter T. Weigand, previously
filed with the Commission on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.4 to Commerce Energy Group,
Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.5

Amendment No. 1 to Agreement Not to Engage in Prohibited Activities dated November 17,
2005 by and among Commerce Energy Group, Inc., Commerce Energy, Inc. and Peter T.
Weigand, previously filed with the Commission on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.5 to
Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.6

Amendment No. 1 to Agreement Not to Compete dated November 17, 2005 by and among
Commerce Energy Group, Inc., Commerce Energy, Inc. and Peter T. Weigand, previously
filed with the Commission on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.6 to Commerce Energy Group,
Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.7

Agreement and Release dated November 17, 2005, by and among, Commerce Energy Group,
Inc., Commerce Energy, Inc., Paul, Hastings, Janofsky   Walker LLP, Eric G. Alam, Bruno
R. Kvetinskas, Greg M. Lander and Peter T. Weigand, previously filed with the Commission
on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.7 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on
Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.8

Settlement Agreement and General Release dated November 17, 2005 by and among Richard L.
Boughrum, Commerce Energy Group, Inc. and Commerce Energy, Inc., previously filed with
the Commission on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.8 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. 

33

Table of Contents   

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  

10.9

Promissory Note dated November 17, 2005 by and between Commerce Energy Group, Inc. and
Richard L. Boughrum, previously filed with the Commission on November 23, 2005 as
Exhibit 99.9 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.10

Voting and Standstill Agreement dated November 17, 2005, by and between Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. and Richard L. Boughrum, previously filed with the Commission on November
23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.10 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K
and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.11

Amendment No. 1 to Executive Employment Agreement dated November 17, 2005, by and among
Commerce Energy Group, Inc., Commerce Energy, Inc. and Richard L. Boughrum, previously
filed with the Commission on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.11 to Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.12

Amendment No. 1 to Agreement Not to Engage in Prohibited Activities dated November 17,
2005 by and among Commerce Energy Group, Inc., Commerce Energy, Inc. and Richard L.
Boughrum, previously filed with the Commission on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.12 to
Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.13

Settlement Agreement and General Release dated November 17, 2005, by and among Commerce
Energy Group, Inc., Commerce Energy, Inc. and Eric G. Alam, previously filed with the
Commission on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.13 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.14

Employment Agreement, dated December 1, 2005 between Lawrence Clayton, Jr. and Commerce
Energy Group, Inc., previously filed with the Commission on December 6, 2005 as Exhibit
99.1 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein
by reference. 

10.15

Stock Option Agreement dated December 1, 2005 between Lawrence Clayton, Jr. and Commerce
Energy Group, Inc., previously filed with the Commission on December 6, 2005 as Exhibit
99.2 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein
by reference. 

10.16

Restricted Stock Agreement dated December 1, 2005 between Lawrence Clayton, Jr. and
Commerce Energy Group, Inc., previously filed with the Commission on December 6, 2005 as
Exhibit 99.3 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.17

Indemnification Agreement dated December 1, 2005 between Lawrence Clayton, Jr. and
Commerce Energy Group, Inc., previously filed with the Commission on December 6, 2005 as
Exhibit 99.4 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.18

Restricted Stock Agreement dated December 12, 2005 between Andrew Coppola and Commerce
Energy Group, Inc., previously filed with the Commission on December 15, 2005 as Exhibit
99.1 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein
by reference. 

10.19

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement pursuant to the Commonwealth Energy Corporation 1999
Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (Time Vesting Version), previously filed with the
Commission on December 15, 2005 as Exhibit 99.2 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current
Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.20

Amended and Restated 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan previously filed with the
Commission on February 1, 2006 as Exhibit 99.1 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current
Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. 

10.21

2006 Stock Incentive Plan previously filed with the Commission
on February 1, 2006 as Exhibit 99.2 to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report on
Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. 

34

Table of Contents   

Other Material Contracts 

35

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

Date: March 16, 2006

By:

/s/ STEVEN S. BOSS 

Steven S. Boss 

Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

Date: March 16, 2006

By:

/s/ LAWRENCE CLAYTON, JR. 

Lawrence Clayton, Jr. 

Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial Officer) 

36

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

The exhibits listed below are hereby filed with the Commission as part of this Report.

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 

3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of Commerce Energy
Group, Inc., previously filed with
the Commission on July 6, 2004 as
Exhibit 3.3 to Commerce Energy Group,
Inc. s Registration Statement on Form
8-A and incorporated herein by
reference. 

3.2

Certificate of Designation of Series
A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock of Commerce Energy Group, Inc.
dated July 1, 2004 previously filed
with the Commission on July 6, 2004
as Exhibit 3.4 to Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. s Registration Statement
on Form 8-A and incorporated herein
by reference. 

3.3

Amended and Restated Bylaws of
Commerce Energy Group, Inc.,
previously filed with the Commission
on July 6, 2004 as Exhibit 3.6 to
Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s
Registration Statement on Form 8-A
and incorporated herein by reference. 

Material Contracts Relating to Management Compensation Plans or Arrangements 

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 

10.1

Settlement Agreement and General
Release dated November 17, 2005 by
and among Peter T. Weigand, Commerce
Energy Group, Inc. and Commerce
Energy, Inc., previously filed with
the Commission on November 23, 2005
as Exhibit 99.1 to Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.2

Promissory Note dated November 17,
2005 by and between Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. and Peter T. Weigand,
previously filed with the Commission
on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.2
to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.3

Voting and Standstill Agreement dated
November 17, 2005, by and between
Commerce Energy Group, Inc. and Peter
T. Weigand, previously filed with the
Commission on November 23, 2005 as
Exhibit 99.3 to Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.4

Amendment No. 1 to Executive
Employment Agreement dated November
17, 2005, by and among Commerce
Energy Group, Inc., Commerce Energy,
Inc. and Peter T. Weigand, previously
filed with the Commission on November
23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.4 to Commerce
Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report
on Form 8-K and incorporated herein
by reference. 

10.5

Amendment No. 1 to Agreement Not to
Engage in Prohibited Activities dated
November 17, 2005 by and among
Commerce Energy Group, Inc., Commerce
Energy, Inc. and Peter T. Weigand,
previously filed with the Commission
on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.5
to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.6

Amendment No. 1 to Agreement Not to
Compete dated November 17, 2005 by
and among Commerce Energy Group,
Inc., Commerce Energy, Inc. and Peter
T. Weigand, previously filed with the
Commission on November 23, 2005 as
Exhibit 99.6 to Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.7

Agreement and Release dated November
17, 2005, by and among, Commerce
Energy Group, Inc., Commerce Energy,
Inc., Paul, Hastings, Janofsky  
Walker LLP, Eric G. Alam, Bruno R.
Kvetinskas, Greg M. Lander and Peter
T. Weigand, previously filed with the
Commission on November 23, 2005 as
Exhibit 99.7 to Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.8

Settlement Agreement and General
Release dated November 17, 2005 by
and among Richard L. Boughrum,
Commerce Energy Group, Inc. and
Commerce Energy, Inc., previously
filed with the Commission on November
23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.8 to Commerce
Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report 

37

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 

on Form 8-K and incorporated herein
by reference. 

10.9

Promissory Note dated November 17,
2005 by and between Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. and Richard L. Boughrum,
previously filed with the Commission
on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.9
to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.10

Voting and Standstill Agreement dated
November 17, 2005, by and between
Commerce Energy Group, Inc. and
Richard L. Boughrum, previously filed
with the Commission on November 23,
2005 as Exhibit 99.10 to Commerce
Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report
on Form 8-K and incorporated herein
by reference. 

10.11

Amendment No. 1 to Executive
Employment Agreement dated November
17, 2005, by and among Commerce
Energy Group, Inc., Commerce Energy,
Inc. and Richard L. Boughrum,
previously filed with the Commission
on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.11
to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.12

Amendment No. 1 to Agreement Not to
Engage in Prohibited Activities dated
November 17, 2005 by and among
Commerce Energy Group, Inc., Commerce
Energy, Inc. and Richard L. Boughrum,
previously filed with the Commission
on November 23, 2005 as Exhibit 99.12
to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.13

Settlement Agreement and General
Release dated November 17, 2005, by
and among Commerce Energy Group,
Inc., Commerce Energy, Inc. and Eric
G. Alam, previously filed with the
Commission on November 23, 2005 as
Exhibit 99.13 to Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.14

Employment Agreement, dated December
1, 2005 between Lawrence Clayton, Jr.
and Commerce Energy Group, Inc.,
previously filed with the Commission
on December 6, 2005 as Exhibit 99.1
to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.15

Stock Option Agreement dated December
1, 2005 between Lawrence Clayton, Jr.
and Commerce Energy Group, Inc.,
previously filed with the Commission
on December 6, 2005 as Exhibit 99.2
to Commerce Energy Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K and
incorporated herein by reference. 

10.16

Restricted Stock Agreement dated
December 1, 2005 between Lawrence
Clayton, Jr. and Commerce Energy
Group, Inc., previously filed with
the Commission on December 6, 2005 as
Exhibit 99.3 to Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.17

Indemnification Agreement dated
December 1, 2005 between Lawrence
Clayton, Jr. and Commerce Energy
Group, Inc., previously filed with
the Commission on December 6, 2005 as
Exhibit 99.4 to Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.18

Restricted Stock Agreement dated
December 12, 2005 between Andrew
Coppola and Commerce Energy Group,
Inc., previously filed with the
Commission on December 15, 2005 as
Exhibit 99.1 to Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.19

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement
pursuant to the Commonwealth Energy
Corporation 1999 Equity Incentive
Plan, as amended (Time Vesting
Version), previously filed with the
Commission on December 15, 2005 as
Exhibit 99.2 to Commerce Energy
Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form
8-K and incorporated herein by
reference. 

10.20

Amended and Restated 2005 Employee
Stock Purchase Plan previously filed
with the Commission on February 1,
2006 as Exhibit 99.1 to Commerce
Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report
on Form 8-K and incorporated herein
by reference. 

10.21

2006 Stock Incentive Plan previously filed
with the Commission on February 1,
2006 as Exhibit 99.2 to Commerce
Energy Group, Inc. s Current Report
on Form 8-K and incorporated herein
by reference. 

38

Table of Contents   

Other Material Contracts 

39

<EX-31.1>
 2
 a18687exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 31.1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Steven S. Boss, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Commerce Energy Group, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this quarterly report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this quarterly report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this quarterly report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
quarterly report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officers and I am responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14)
for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this quarterly report is being prepared;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect the registrant s internal controls over
financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial reporting.

Date: March 16, 2006

By:

/s/ STEVEN S. BOSS 

Steven S. Boss 

Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 a18687exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 31.2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Lawrence Clayton, Jr., certify that:

1. I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Commerce Energy Group, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this quarterly report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this quarterly report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this quarterly report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
quarterly report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officers and I am responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14)
for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this quarterly report is being prepared;

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect the registrant s internal controls over
financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial reporting.

Date: March 16, 2006

By:

/s/ LAWRENCE CLAYTON, JR. 

Lawrence Clayton, Jr. 

Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 a18687exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 32.1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
RULE 13(a)-14(b) AND 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Commerce Energy Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form
10-Q for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), Steven S. Boss, Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to his knowledge:

1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

Date: March 16, 2006

By:

/s/ STEVEN S. BOSS 

Steven S. Boss 

Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 5
 a18687exv32w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Exhibit 32.2 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
RULE 13(a)-14(b) AND 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Quarterly Report of Commerce Energy Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form
10-Q for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), Lawrence Clayton, Jr., Chief Financial Officer of the
Company, hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to his knowledge:

1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

Date: March 16, 2006

By:

/s/ LAWRENCE CLAYTON, JR. 

Lawrence Clayton, Jr. 

Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 6
 a18687exv99w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 99.1

Exhibit 99.1 

Exhibit 99.1 

COMMERCE ENERGY GROUP, INC. 

AMENDED AND RESTATED NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION POLICY  
Effective March 10, 2006

On March 10, 2006, the Board of Directors of Commerce Energy Group, Inc. amended and restated
the following compensation policy with respect the Company s non-employee directors. This policy
may be changed by the Board of Directors from time-to-time.

Cash Compensation.  Each non-employee director is paid a quarterly retainer of $8,000, a fee of
$1,000 for each Board meeting which the Board member attends in person and a fee of $750 for each
Board meeting which the Board member attends telephonically. The non-executive Chairman of the
Board will also receive a supplemental quarterly retainer of $4,000. Directors who served on Board
committees (other than the chairman of such committee) are paid $750 for each committee meeting the
Board member attends in person and a fee of $500 for each Committee meeting which the Board member
attends telephonically. Committee chairpersons are paid $1,000 for each committee meeting the
chairperson attends, whether in person or telephonically. In addition, each non-employee director
is entitled to receive reimbursement for reasonable travel expenses in accordance with the
Company s travel expense policy with respect to each Board or Board committee meeting that such
non-employee director attends in person if the director resides 25 miles or more from the site of
the meeting.

Equity-Based Awards.  Each non-employee director who first becomes a member of the Company s
Board of Directors will be granted an option to purchase 50,000 shares of the Company s common
stock, par value $.001 per share ( Common Stock ) following his/her appointment or election to the
Board of Directors, with the following terms and conditions: (a) the option shall be subject to all
terms and conditions of the Company s 2006 Stock Incentive Plan or any successor plan; (b) the
options shall vest quarterly at a rate of 12,500 shares on each three-month anniversary of the date
of grant, with any unvested shares being forfeited if the Board member s service is terminated; (c)
the options shall have a term of 10 years from the date of grant; (d) any vested options may be
exercised during the time the Board member is serving as a director or, after such person ceases to
be a director, prior to the expiration of the term of the option; and (e) the exercise price per
share shall be the greater of the fair market value or the cash value of a share of Common Stock on
the date of grant.

In addition, on or following the close of business on the date of each annual meeting of
stockholders at which directors are elected, each non-employee director who is either re-elected as
a non-employee director or who continues in office as an incumbent director, will be (a) issued
10,000 shares of restricted Common Stock pursuant to the Company s 2006 Stock Incentive Plan or any
successor plan and such shares shall vest in full on January 1 of the next succeeding calendar year
after the date of issuance, and (b) granted an option to purchase 20,000 shares of Common Stock
pursuant to the Company s 2006 Stock Incentive Plan or any successor plan, with the following terms
and conditions: (i) the options shall be subject to all terms and conditions of the Company s 2006
Stock Incentive Plan or any successor plan, as applicable; (ii) the options shall vest quarterly at
a rate of 5,000 shares on each three month anniversary of the date of grant, with any unvested
shares being forfeited if the Board member s service is terminated; (iii) the options shall have a
term of 10 years from the date of grant; (iv) any vested options may be exercised during the time
the Board member is serving as a director or, after such person ceases to be a director, prior to
the expiration of the term of the option; and (v) the exercise price per share shall be the greater
of the fair market value or the cash value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no shares of restricted stock, options or
other equity-based awards shall be issued or granted to the non-employee directors pursuant to this
Policy until a Form S-8 Registration Statement relating to such equity-based awards is on file and
effective with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the Company s 2006 Stock
Incentive Plan or, if the Company s 2006 Stock Incentive Plan is no longer in effect, any successor
plan.

</EX-99.1>

