<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060315_10-Q_edgar_data_1205431_0001047469-06-003472_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>837018</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>217383</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>430697</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>65</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>3</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-06-003472.hdr.sgml : 20060315
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060315160325
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-06-003472
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		4
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20060131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060315
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060315

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SSA GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001205431
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES [7371]
		IRS NUMBER:				841542338
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-51330
		FILM NUMBER:		06688366

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		500 W. MADISON
		STREET 2:		SUITE 2200
		CITY:			CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60661
		BUSINESS PHONE:		312-258-6000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		500 W. MADISON
		STREET 2:		SUITE 2200
		CITY:			CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60661

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SSA GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20021109

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 KYOxSkNviKZ5QHMxbNS/AMzKLgmJ8u4/Hv32kSWukXeRjJeT5xX+3Hv782KUaZ5k
 xNqHsLER+QguJWX0RpqN/A==

 0001047469-06-003472.txt : 20060315

10-Q
 1
 a2168345z10-q.htm
 10-Q

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549     

   FORM 10-Q     

Commission File Number: 000-51330     

   SSA Global Technologies, Inc.      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

500 W. Madison, Suite 2200, Chicago, Illinois 60661      (Address of principal executive offices)   

   (312) 258-6000      (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)   

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes     No       

          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer (see definition of "accelerated filer
and large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). (Check one):   

  Large
accelerated filer     Accelerated filer     Non-accelerated
filer       

          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.    Yes     No       

          On February 28, 2006, the registrant had 69,573,597 shares of common stock outstanding.   

TABLE OF CONTENTS            

PART I FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

Item 1.  

Financial Statements (Unaudited)  

Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 31, 2006 and 
July 31, 2005  

1  

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Three and Six Months Ended January 31, 2006 and 2005  

3  

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Six Months Ended January 31, 2006 and 2005  

4  

Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  

5  

Item 2.  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

28  

Item 3.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

59  

Item 4.  

Controls and Procedures  

60  

PART II OTHER INFORMATION   

Item 1.  

Legal Proceedings  

62  

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors  

63  

Item 2.  

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  

74  

Item 6.  

Exhibits  

75  

SIGNATURES  

76  

i  

PART I FINANCIAL INFORMATION            

Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements            

SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiaries        CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        (in millions)        (unaudited)            

See
accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.   

  1  

See
accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.   

  2  

SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiaries              CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS              (in millions, except per share amounts)              (unaudited)     

See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.   

  3  

SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiaries              CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS              (in millions)   (unaudited)            

See
accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.   

  4  

SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiaries              NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited)              January 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005     

NOTE A BASIS OF PRESENTATION     

          The condensed consolidated interim financial statements included herein have been prepared by SSA Global Technologies, Inc. (hereafter "SSA Global" or the
"Company") pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of July 31, 2005 is derived from audited
consolidated financial statements. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted
accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations regarding interim financial statements. These condensed consolidated financial statements
should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in SSA Global's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended July 31, 2005, filed with the SEC on October 21, 2005.   

          The
unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included herein reflect all adjustments (which include normal recurring adjustments and restructuring charges in each of the
periods presented) which are, in the opinion of management, necessary to state fairly the financial position of SSA Global as of January 31, 2006 and its results of operations for the three and
six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005.   

   NOTE B EARNINGS PER SHARE     

          Basic and diluted earnings per common share have been computed using the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Basic
and diluted earnings per preferred share have been computed using the weighted average number of shares of preferred stock outstanding during the three and six months ended January 31, 2005.   

Basic
earnings (loss) per common share are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. For the three and six months ended January 31, 2005, basic earnings
per common share included the effect of 4,785,000 common shares issued on February 25, 2004, in connection with an amendment to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation that reclassified each
share of outstanding Series A convertible preferred stock into one share of such stock and 1.595 shares of common stock.   

          Basic
earnings (loss) attributed to common shares include the allocated share of undistributed earnings. The undistributed loss for the three and six months ended January 31, 2005
was allocated to common stock since, according to the terms of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, the convertible preferred stock outstanding during that period was not obligated to share in
the losses of the Company. No shares of preferred stock were outstanding during the three or six months ended January 31, 2006.   

          Diluted
earnings (loss) per common share is based on the combination of basic shares outstanding and potentially dilutive shares. For the three and six months ended January 31,
2006, potentially dilutive shares consisted of stock options, restricted stock units, subordinated convertible notes and warrants. For the three and six months ended January 31, 2005,
potentially dilutive shares consisted of stock options, subordinated convertible notes, stock appreciation rights, warrants and Series A convertible preferred stock and the accumulated
dividends thereon. The Company had outstanding stock options to purchase 11,589,607 and 10,062,507 shares of common stock as of January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company had
50,085,754 and 48,983,625 weighted average common shares underlying its Series A convertible preferred stock for the three and six months ended January 31,   

  5  

2005,
respectively, including common shares underlying accrued dividends. The convertible preferred shares were converted to common shares upon the completion of the Company's initial public offering
("IPO") in May 2005. The number of weighted average common shares assumes conversion of the Series A convertible preferred stock plus accrued dividends at the beginning of the period
presented.   

          The
Company excludes potentially dilutive securities from its diluted net earnings (loss) loss per share computation when their effect would be anti-dilutive to earnings
(loss) per share amounts. For the three months ended January 31, 2005, 54,913,407 potentially dilutive securities were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share as
their effect was
anti-dilutive. Of those amounts, 4,089,384 shares related to stock options, 610,998 shares related to subordinated convertible notes, 127,281 shares related to stock appreciation rights
and 50,085,754 shares related to Series A convertible preferred stock including common shares underlying accrued dividends thereon. For the six months ended January 31, 2005, 53,811,278
potentially dilutive securities were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share as their effect was anti-dilutive. Of those amounts, 4,089,384 shares related to
stock options, 610,998 shares related to subordinated convertible notes, 127,281 shares related to stock appreciation rights and 48,983,625 shares related to Series A convertible preferred
stock including common shares underlying accrued dividends thereon. For the three and six months ended January 31, 2006, 610,998 potentially dilutive securities related to the subordinated
convertible notes were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share in the period as their effect was anti-dilutive.   

The
following table sets forth the computations of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common share and preferred share for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 and
2005:   

6  

NOTE C STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION     

         Effective July 31, 2003, the Company implemented a stock-based equity incentive plan ("the Plan"). Prior to August 1, 2005, the Company accounted
for stock-based awards to employees in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25,    "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,"    ("APB 25") and related interpretations and it complied with the disclosure provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123,     "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation"    ("SFAS 123"). Effective August 1, 2005, the Company adopted the fair value recognition
provisions of 6 SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiaries SFAS 123(R),    "Share-Based Payment"    ("SFAS 123(R)"), using the
"modified prospective" transition method. Under "modified prospective" transition method, compensation cost recognized for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 includes compensation
expense for all awards granted after the required effective date and for the unvested portion of awards granted between June 4, 2004, the date that the Company initially filed its Registration
Statement on Form S-1 relating to its IPO of common
stock, and July 31, 2005 that remain outstanding at the date of adoption, in addition to the stock-based compensation to be recorded for options granted with exercise prices below fair value.
Results for prior periods have not been restated.   

          On
December 14, 2005, the Company amended individual stock option agreements of certain officers and non-officer employees, to conform to the requirements of Internal
Revenue Code Section 409A and related regulations. Accordingly:   

effective
December 31, 2005, approximately 4.8 million unexercised stock options originally granted at an exercise price of $2.06 were repriced to an exercise
price of $6.34;
           cash
payments totaling $8.5 million, pro-rated in accordance with the individuals' respective option holdings based on the number of options outstanding
on December 31, 2005, are to be made in equal installments, within thirty days of the end of each 2006 calendar quarter after the first installment payment made in January 2006; and
           restricted
stock awards of 273,690 units with an aggregate value of $5.0 million were issued in January 2006 and will vest on June 30, 2008 or earlier
if employment terminates due to death, disability or if employment is terminated by the Company without cause or by the individual for good reason.    

The
repricing of these stock options, cash compensation and restricted stock awards are considered a modification of stock options for accounting purposes. This modification will result
in a reduction of stock option expense of approximately $1.1 million over 30 months. The restricted stock awards of $5.0 million will be expensed on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period. The remaining cash payments associated with the modification of stock options are recorded as a component of accrued compensation and related benefits and a reduction of
additional paid-in capital in the condensed consolidation balance sheet to the extent they are vested.   

  7  

Non-cash
stock compensation expense, including stock compensation expense related to restricted stock awards, under the provisions of SFAS 123(R) and APB 25 for the
three and six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, was comprised as follows:   

The
following table illustrates the effect on net income if the Company had applied the fair-value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 to stock-based compensation for
the three and six months ended January 31, 2005:   

8  

The
fair value of each stock option is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model that uses the following assumptions:   

Stock
price on the date of grant;
           Exercise
price of the option (usually the same as the stock price);
           Expected
term of the stock option;
           Risk-free
interest rate over the expected term;
           Expected
dividend yield; and,
           Expected
volatility of the underlying stock.    

Stock Price     

          The stock price is the market price of the stock on the date of grant.   

   Exercise Price     

          Since the Company's initial stock option grants on July 31, 2003, the exercise price has equaled the market price of the stock on the date of grant, but in
the future, the Company may grant options with exercise prices that may differ from that price. Under APB 25, if the stock price exceeded the exercise price on the date of grant, compensation expense
was required to be recorded for the intrinsic value (spread between the stock and exercise prices) of the stock options over the vesting period.   

   Expected Term     

          The expected term of stock options granted is based on historical data and represents the period of time that stock options granted are expected to be
outstanding. The Company has had very limited stock option exercise experience to date, making the Company's determination of the "expected term" judgmental. In Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 107, the SEC staff allows the use of an "acceptable" methodology on which to base an estimate of expected term when the company does not have sufficient historical exercise experience on
which to base its expected term assumption. The Company has followed this methodology by averaging the graded vesting term of four years with the contractual term of ten years to determine the
expected term used in the Black-Scholes option pricing model for all stock option grants coincident with and subsequent to its IPO in May 2005.   

   Risk-free Interest Rate     

          The risk-free rate of the stock options is based on the "stripped" coupon rate for U.S. Treasury securities in effect at the time of grant with a
maturity approximating the expected term.   

Expected Dividend Yield     

          The Company does not intend to pay dividends on its common stock for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, uses a dividend yield of zero in the Black-Scholes
option pricing model.   

  9  

Expected Volatility     

          Options granted prior to June 4, 2004 used a "minimum value" for the fair value of options (volatility of zero), as permissible for a
non-public entity. The fair value of options granted after June 4, 2004 includes expected volatility as the Company met the definition of a public entity for accounting purposes.
Due to its limited public company stock trading experience, the Company computes expected volatility based on a comparable group of companies for the period of the expected term discussed above.   

   Estimated Forfeitures     

          The Company has estimated employee stock option forfeitures for two groups of employees (a) senior management and directors and (b) all other
employees, using employee attrition statistics. Estimated forfeitures will be adjusted to actual forfeiture experience as needed.   

For
purposes of calculating the compensation costs consistent with SFAS 123(R), the fair value of each grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions used for grants for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006:   

No
options were granted during the three and six months ended January 31, 2005.   

          The
weighted average grant date fair value of options granted during the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 were $12.25 and $12.13 per option share, respectively.   

  10  

NOTE D COMPREHENSIVE INCOME     

          The following table summarizes the changes in comprehensive income for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005:   

NOTE E INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING     

          On May 26, 2005, the Company sold 9,000,000 shares of common stock at $11.00 per common share in its IPO. The net proceeds of $85.8 million (gross
proceeds of $99.0 million less expenses of the offering) were used to repay $81.2 million of the amount owed (excluding accrued and unpaid interest thereon) under the promissory notes
issued on July 18, 2003 to Madeleine L.L.C., an affiliate of Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. ("Cerberus") and investment entities affiliated with General Atlantic LLC ("General Atlantic"), in
the aggregate principal amount of $130.1 million, which were due on November 15, 2006 and accrued interest at a rate of 1.23% per annum, with the remaining $4.6 million retained
for general working capital purposes. On June 16, 2005, the underwriters of the IPO exercised the over-allotment option to purchase 1,350,000 shares of common stock at the IPO price
of $11.00 per share. The net proceeds of $13.8 million (gross proceeds of $14.8 million less an underwriting discount of $1.0 million) and the remaining proceeds from the shares
sold on May 26, 2005 were used to fund the acquisition of Boniva, Inc. ("Boniva") and to fund a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition of Epiphany, Inc. ("Epiphany") on
August 1, 2005 and September 29, 2005, respectively.   

          The
following tables summarize the pro forma effect of the IPO on the consolidated statements of operations for the three and six months ended January 31, 2005.   

          The
"Adjustments for the Conversion of Preferred Shares" column reflects the conversion of Series A convertible preferred stock into common stock and the elimination of dividends
on preferred stock.   

          The
"Adjustments for the Debt Modification" column reflects the effects of the modification of the terms of approximately $151.8 million of related-party indebtedness to provide
for an interest rate equal to the average three-month LIBOR plus 2.75%, a three-year term and a senior unsecured ranking. The adjustments reflect the reduction of interest expense, net of
tax, as a result of the modification of related-party debt upon the consummation of the IPO.   

          The
"Adjustments for the Offering Transactions" column reflects the issuance of common shares in the IPO, exercise of the over-allotment option and the reduction of interest
expense, net of tax, related   

  11  

to
the use of approximately $81.2 million of the net proceeds to repay certain related-party indebtedness.   

On
December 19, 2005, the Company filed a registration statement on Form S-1 to register 9,000,000 shares of common stock to be sold by its controlling
stockholders and certain members of senior management in a secondary public offering. As of January 31, 2006, Cerberus and General Atlantic owned 62.2% and 22.8%, respectively, or a total of
85.0%, of the Company's outstanding common stock.   

12  

NOTE F DEBT FINANCING     

          On September 22, 2005, the Company entered into a $225.0 million senior secured credit facility ("senior secured credit facility") with a syndicate
of financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and Citicorp USA, Inc., as syndication agent. The following is a summary of the material terms of the credit
agreement that governs the senior secured credit facility (the "credit agreement").   

            Structure        The senior secured credit facility consists of (1) a term facility of
$200.0 million (the "term facility"), and (2) a revolving facility, of up to $25.0 million (the "revolving facility").   

          The
full amount of the term facility was drawn on September 22, 2005 to refinance $151.8 million of existing related-party indebtedness, to fund permitted acquisitions and
to pay fees and expenses in connection with the senior secured credit facility. Subject to customary conditions, including the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties, and the absence
of any default under the credit agreement, amounts available under the revolving facility may be borrowed, repaid and reborrowed, and letters of credit may be issued, until September 22, 2010.
The revolving facility may be   

  13  

used
for general corporate purposes, including to finance acquisitions permitted under the credit agreement and to fund working capital requirements.   

          Subject
to the terms and conditions set forth in the credit agreement (including that no default then exists under the credit agreement and that the Company's leverage ratio, after
giving pro forma effect to the incremental term loan, does not exceed 2.75 to 1), the Company may incur incremental term loans in an aggregate amount not to exceed $100.0 million.   

Maturity, Amortization and Prepayment        The term facility matures in September 2011 and
amortizes in twenty equal, consecutive quarterly installments of $0.5 million, in an aggregate annual amount equal to $2.0 million during the first five years thereof, with the balance
of $190.0 million payable in four equal quarterly installments in 2011. Unless terminated earlier, the revolving facility matures in five years.   

          The
senior secured credit facility may be prepaid at the Company's option. The senior secured credit facility is subject to mandatory prepayment with, in general, (i) 100% of the
net cash proceeds of certain asset sales, subject to certain reinvestment rights and minimum thresholds; (ii) 100% of the net cash proceeds of certain insurance and condemnation payments,
subject to certain reinvestment rights and minimum thresholds; (iii) subject to certain exceptions, 50% of the net cash proceeds of equity offerings; and (iv) 100% of the net cash
proceeds of future debt issuances, other than debt issuances permitted under the credit agreement.   

            Interest and Fees        The loans under the credit agreement bear interest, at the Company's option, at a
rate per annum equal to either: (1) the base rate plus an applicable margin, or (2) the Eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin.   

          The
applicable margin is as set forth in the following table:   

The
applicable margin was initially set at 1.00% for base rate loans and 2.00% for Eurodollar loans. During the existence of an event of default under the credit agreement, the
applicable margin shall be 1.25% for base rate loans and 2.25% for Eurodollar loans. Interest has been fixed on $150.0 million of this indebtedness using an interest rate swap. See
note G.   

            Guarantees and Security        The obligations under the credit agreement are guaranteed by each of the
Company's existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, other than its foreign subsidiaries. Subject to certain customary exceptions, the Company and each of the guarantors granted to the
senior lenders a first priority security interest in and lien on substantially all of the Company's respective present and future property and assets to secure all of the obligations under the senior
secured credit facility and any interest rate swap or similar agreements with a lender (or an affiliate of a lender) under the credit agreement.   

  14  

Fees        Certain customary fees are payable to the lenders and the agents under the senior secured credit
facility, including, without limitation, a commitment fee equal to 0.75% per annum times the daily average undrawn portion of the revolving facility and letter of credit fees and issuer fronting fees.   

            Covenants        The senior secured credit facility contains various customary affirmative and negative
covenants (subject to customary exceptions and certain existing obligations and liabilities), including, but not limited to, restrictions on the Company's ability and the ability of its subsidiaries
to: (i) incur additional indebtedness; (ii) create liens on the Company's assets; (iii) engage in mergers or consolidations; (iv) make investments, loans, guarantees or
acquisitions; (v) dispose of the Company's assets; (vi) enter into sale and leaseback transactions; (vii) enter into hedging agreements; (viii) pay certain restricted
payments and dividends and make payments on subordinated indebtedness; (ix) engage in certain transactions with affiliates; (x) enter into agreements that restrict the Company's ability
or the ability of its subsidiaries to grant liens or make distributions; or (xi) amend certain material agreements.   

          The
Company has obtained a waiver from the lenders to pay cash compensation of $8.5 million related to amended individual stock option agreements of certain officers and
non-officer employees to conform to the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and related regulations as discussed in note C.   

          In
addition, under the senior secured credit facility, the Company is required to comply with a minimum interest coverage ratio and a leverage ratio. The interest coverage ratio is the
ratio of the Company's EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) to its consolidated interest expense for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters. The minimum interest coverage ratio is 3 to
1. The leverage ratio is the ratio of the Company's total indebtedness (as defined in the senior secured credit facility) to the Company's EBITDA for the most recent four consecutive fiscal quarters.
It is the same ratio used to determine the applicable margin on the Company's interest rate. The maximum leverage ratio is 3 to 1.   

          The
Company was in compliance with all debt covenants at January 31, 2006.   

          The
Company is permitted to make acquisitions within certain parameters, primarily that (a) no event of default has occurred at the time of acquisition and (b) that the
Company would be in compliance with the debt covenants on a pro forma basis calculated in accordance with SEC Regulation S-X and further adjusted to reflect the impact of detailed
cost savings that are factually supportable and certified by the Chief Financial Officer as reasonably expected to be achieved within 180 days.   

          The
credit agreement also restricts the maximum amount of capital expenditures by the Company and its subsidiaries in any fiscal year to $25.0 million, subject to increase as a
result of permitted acquisitions. Capital expenditures are, subject to certain exceptions, additions to property, plant and equipment and other capital expenditures that are required to be set forth
in a consolidated statement of cash flows in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and capital lease obligations and synthetic lease obligations.   

Events of Default        The senior secured credit facility contains customary events of default (subject to
customary exceptions, thresholds and grace periods), including, without limitation: (i) nonpayment of   

  15  

principal
or interest; (ii) failure to perform or observe covenants; (iii) inaccuracy or breaches of representations and warranties; (iv) cross-defaults with certain other
indebtedness; (v) certain bankruptcy-related events; (vi) impairment of security interests in collateral; (vii) invalidity of guarantees; (viii) monetary judgment defaults;
(ix) certain ERISA matters; and (x) certain changes of control.   

   NOTE G INTEREST RATE SWAP     

          On November 1, 2005, the Company entered into an interest rate swap to hedge a portion of its variable interest rate exposure under the senior secured
credit facility. The pay fixed, receive floating interest rate swap agreement has a total notional amount of $150.0 million effective December 28, 2005 and maturing on
December 28, 2008. The Company did not enter into this derivative transaction for speculative or trading purposes.   

Under
the interest rate swap, the Company agreed with JP Morgan Chase, N.A. to exchange, at specified intervals beginning December 28, 2005, the difference between an agreed fixed
rate of 4.90% (before contractual margin of 2.00%) and the variable floating London interbank offered ("LIBO") rate interest payments required under its term loan obligation, calculated by reference
to the agreed notional principal amount. The Company will pay the fixed rate and will receive the floating rate under the swap agreement. The interest expense on the unhedged portion of the debt will
fluctuate based on the LIBO rate plus the applicable contractual margin in accordance with the senior secured credit agreement.   

Changes
in the fair value of an interest rate swap designated as a hedging instrument that effectively offsets the variability of cash flows associated with a variable-rate,
long-term debt obligation are reported in other comprehensive income. This amount is subsequently reclassified into interest expense as a yield adjustment of the hedged interest payment in
the same period in which the related interest affects earnings. The impact of the swap was to increase interest expense for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 by
$0.1 million in both periods. There were no amounts representing cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, arising from differences between the critical terms of the interest rate swap and the hedged
debt obligation, that affected earnings or that were recorded as interest expense for these periods. The Company measures hedge effectiveness of its hedging relationships both at hedge inception and
on an ongoing basis. As of January 31, 2006, the hedge liability was $0.4 million.   

   NOTE H ACQUISITIONS     

          The Company completed two acquisitions in the six months ended January 31, 2006, Boniva and Epiphany, collectively referred to as the "fiscal 2006
acquisitions."   

          On
August 1, 2005, the Company acquired Boniva, a provider of human capital management applications, for $2.5 million in cash including transaction costs.   

On
September 29, 2005, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock of Epiphany. Each holder of Epiphany common stock received a total of $4.20 per share. The
transaction was funded with a combination of Epiphany and SSA Global cash on hand. The total purchase price, paid to date, net of cash acquired, and including transaction costs, was
$107.1 million. The purpose of   

  16  

the
acquisition was to enhance and expand the existing CRM product functionality within the Company's portfolio of solutions.   

The
fiscal 2006 acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the results of operations of these companies are included in the Company's
consolidated statements of operations since the respective dates of acquisition. Operating results for the three months ended January 31, 2006 include the results of Boniva and Epiphany for the
entire period, while results for the six months ended January 31, 2006 include six months of results from Boniva and approximately four months of results from Epiphany.   

          The
purchase price allocation for Epiphany is preliminary and subject to change upon receipt of additional information related primarily to restructuring costs (primarily lease
obligations), pre-acquisition contingencies and income taxes.   

          The
Epiphany acquisition has resulted in a significant portion of the purchase price being allocated to goodwill. Factors that contributed to this include the nature of the business
acquired, which did not have a significant amount of tangible net assets and the value created for the Company by expanding its product lines and customer base.   

          The
Company recorded a charge of $1.7 million during the six months ended January 31, 2006 for the value of acquired in-process research and development
("IPR D") projects and technologies which had no alternative future use and had not reached technological feasibility at the date of acquisition. IPR D is included in research and development expense
in the condensed consolidated statement of operations.   

          The
following unaudited pro forma results of operations data for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 were prepared in accordance with SFAS 141,     "Business Combinations"    and
assumes the Epiphany acquisition occurred on August 1, 2004:   

The
pro forma presentation above also reflects the effect of the IPO (see note E) and the credit facility (see note F) as proceeds from these transactions were used to fund
the Epiphany acquisition.   

  17  

NOTE I CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE COSTS AND ACQUIRED TECHNOLOGY     

          Capitalized software and acquired technology costs and accumulated amortization at January 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005 are as follows:   

Amortization
expense related to capitalized software costs and acquired technology was $5.2 million and $4.2 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively, and was $9.8 million and $9.1 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

   NOTE J GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS     

The following summarizes the carrying amounts of amortizable intangible assets as of January 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005 and related amortization
expense:   

18  

The
changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the six months ended January 31, 2006 are as follows:   

NOTE K RESTRUCTURING     

          In conjunction with the consummation of the Epiphany acquisition, the Company's Board of Directors evaluated the consolidation of its operations and approved a
reorganization and workforce reduction plan (the "Plan"). As part of the Plan, the Company will be reducing the size of its combined workforce, after giving effect to the acquisition, by approximately
200 employees. The objectives of the Plan are to eliminate redundant costs resulting from the acquisition and improve efficiencies in overall operations. A majority of notifications to employees
occurred immediately and all of the workforce reductions are expected to be completed by April 30, 2006. As a result, the Company incurred costs in the form of severance and related benefits of
approximately $9.2 million, all of which is expected to be paid over the ensuing twelve months. The charge recorded in the condensed consolidated statement of operations associated with the
Plan, as discussed below, was approximately $5.8 million as it relates to the involuntary termination of SSA Global employees.   

  19  

The
following table summarizes the components of the Epiphany restructuring accrual as of January 31, 2006, which were recorded as a component of the purchase price allocation:   

The
$11.5 million accrued for office space as of January 31, 2006 is net of contractual and estimated sublease income for six primary offices that were fully or partially
vacated by Epiphany prior to the acquisition and office space vacated by the Company subsequent to the acquisition date. The accrued amount is subject to change as a result of potential lease
settlements with the respective landlords and changes in estimated sublease income based on real estate market conditions. In January 2006, the Company paid $2.2 million (included in
office space payments in the table above) and issued a note in the principal amount of $3.5 million as payment for the Company's early termination of a lease for an
Epiphany facility in Needham, Massachusetts. The promissory note is payable in 35 equal monthly installments of $100,000 starting in August 2006 with a final payment of approximately $43,000.
As the note has no stated interest rate, the Company discounted this note at 6.52% per annum to $3.1 million and records interest expense on the payments monthly. The obligation is presented as
long-term debt and is classified as both current and long-term reflecting the due dates of the payments. The reclassification to debt column reflects a reclassification of
$3.1 million to long-term debt for the promissory note.   

          In
connection with the workforce reduction plan announced at the time of the Epiphany acquisition, approximately $5.8 million was charged to the condensed consolidated statement
of operations for the six months ended January 31, 2006 in connection with the involuntary termination of SSA Global employees. The following table summarizes the components of the general
restructuring accrual as of January 31, 2006:   

In
June 2004, in conjunction with the acquisition of the Marcam business division of Invensys Systems, Inc. and certain of its affiliates ("Marcam"), the Company recorded a
restructuring cost of $5.7 million. The costs related to reducing headcount by approximately 47 employees and eliminating costs associated with certain office space. This cost was recorded as a
component of goodwill.   

  20  

The
following table summarizes the components of the restructuring accrual as of January 31, 2006:   

NOTE L ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES     

          Accounts payable and other accrued liabilities are comprised of the following as of January 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005:   

NOTE M GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENTS AND ACQUIRED COMPANY INFORMATION     

          The Company's chief operating decision maker is its President and CEO. While the President and CEO is apprised of a variety of financial metrics and information,
the Company is principally managed on a geographic basis in terms of revenue and segment profit performance. The Company's four geographic business segments are: North America, which consists of the
United States and Canada; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); Asia Pacific, which consists of Asia, the Pacific Rim and Japan; and Latin America, which consists of Mexico and Central and South
America. Each segment derives its revenue from licensing enterprise application software and through providing support and services to customers. Assets are not identified with geographic segments,
except for long-lived tangible assets managed within each region, because the President and CEO does not evaluate that information to make resource allocation decisions.   

          Revenues
are defined as revenues generated from unaffiliated customers and are based on the country in which billing originates. The segment profit reported for the geographic segments
is computed by subtracting direct costs incurred by the geographic segment from segment revenue. These costs include cost of license fees, cost of support, services and other revenue, cost of direct
sales and marketing as well as local costs for research and development and general and administrative functions. Corporate costs include overhead costs and global marketing and research and
development costs that are not included in the segment profit measure.   

          Accounting
policies for each of the reportable segments are the same as those used on a consolidated basis.   

  21  

The
following tables present summary operating information by geographic segment for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005:   

22  

Revenue
attributable to the United States was $80.9 million and $69.0 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and
$161.4 million and $138.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

          Under
the enterprise-wide disclosure requirements of SFAS 131,    "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information"    ("SFAS 131"), total revenues by acquired company are as follows for three and six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005:   

(1)    Product
lines owned for the entire three and six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005.    

          Selected
financial results for each acquisition are tracked for a complete year following the year of acquisition.   

          Under
the enterprise-wide disclosure requirements of SFAS 131, total long-lived tangible assets by major geographic region reflect the
long-lived tangible assets managed within each region. Total long-lived tangible assets by major geographic region are as follows as of January 31, 2006 and
July 31, 2005:   

No
single customer accounted for 10% or more of the consolidated revenues of the Company in the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005.   

  23  

NOTE N RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS     

   SFAS 123(R)     

          On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standard Board ("FASB") issued SFAS 123(R). This statement is a revision of FASB 123     "Accounting for
Stock Based Compensation,"    as amended, supersedes APB 25,    "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees"    and its related implementation guidance and amends SFAS 95,    "Statement of Cash Flows."    SFAS 123(R) eliminates
the alternative to use the intrinsic value method of accounting that was provided in SFAS 123, which generally resulted in no compensation expense recorded in the financial statements related
to the issuance of equity awards to employees. SFAS 123(R) also requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. It
establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share-based payment arrangements and requires all companies to apply a fair-value-based measurement method in
accounting for generally all share-based payment transactions with employees. The Company adopted SFAS 123(R) effective August 1, 2005, using a modified prospective transition method.
This method requires the Company to record compensation expense for all awards granted after the required effective date and for the unvested portion of awards granted between June 4, 2004 and
July 31, 2005 that were outstanding at the date of adoption, in addition, to the stock-based compensation to be recorded for options granted with exercise prices below fair value.   

          The
Company expects the following impacts for stock options outstanding as of January 31, 2006 after estimating the impact of forfeitures over the requisite service periods:   

*    This
amount includes $6.5 million of stock-based compensation expense recorded in the six months ended January 31, 2006.    

          Actual
stock option expense may differ from these estimated expense impacts due to the impact of future stock option grants and differences in actual forfeitures from the rate of
estimated forfeitures, as well as modifications to the stock options outstanding at this time. See note C for discussion and impacts of implementing SFAS 123(R) effective
August 1, 2005.   

   SFAS No. 153     

          On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153,    "Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion
No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions"    ("SFAS 153")   .    SFAS No. 153 addresses the measurement of
exchanges of nonmonetary assets and redefines the scope of transactions that should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged. The provisions in SFAS 153 are effective for
nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after   

  24  

June 15,
2005, which became effective with the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results
of operations or cash flows.   

   FSPs 109-1 and 109-2     

          On October 22, 2004, the President signed the    "American Jobs Creation Act of 2004"    (the "Act"). On
December 21, 2004, the FASB issued two FASB Staff Positions ("FSPs") regarding the accounting implications of the Act related to (1) the deduction for qualified domestic production
activities ("FSP SFAS No. 109-1") and (2) the one-time tax benefit for the repatriation of foreign earnings ("FSP SFAS No. 109-2"). The
guidance in the FSPs applies to financial statements for periods ending after the date the Act was enacted.   

          FSP
SFAS 109-1,    "Application of FASB Statement No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes,' to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production
Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004,"    clarifies that the tax deduction for domestic manufacturers under the Act should be accounted for as a special
deduction in accordance with SFAS 109   , "Accounting for Income Taxes."    The Company is currently evaluating the impact, if any, of FSP
SFAS 109-1 on its consolidated financial statements.   

          FSP
SFAS 109-2,    "Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of
2004,"    provides enterprises more time (beyond the financial reporting period during which the Act took effect) to evaluate the Act's impact on the enterprise's plan for
reinvestment or repatriation of certain foreign earnings for purposes of applying the FASB Statement. The Act provides for a special one-time tax deduction of 85 percent dividends
received deduction on certain foreign earnings repatriated in fiscal 2005 or 2006. The deduction would result in an approximate 5.1 percent federal tax on a portion of the foreign earnings
repatriated. State, local and foreign taxes could apply as well. To qualify for this federal tax deduction, the earnings must be reinvested in the United States pursuant to a domestic reinvestment
plan. Certain other criteria in the Act must be satisfied as well. The Company studied the provisions of
the Act related to the repatriation of earnings and does not intend to repatriate any earnings as of January 31, 2006.   

   SFAS No. 154     

          In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,    "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections A replacement of APB
Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 30"    ("SFAS 154"). SFAS 154 replaces APB Opinion No. 20,    "Accounting
Changes,"    and SFAS No. 3,    "Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements,"    and changes the requirements
for the accounting for, and reporting of, a change in accounting principles. This statement applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principles and changes required by an accounting
pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions. Under previous guidance, changes in accounting principle were recognized as a cumulative
effect in the net income of the period of the change. SFAS 154 requires retrospective application of changes in accounting principle, limited to the direct effects of the change, to prior
periods' financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. Additionally, SFAS 154 requires that a change
in depreciation, amortization or depletion method for long-lived, nonfinancial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate affected by a change in accounting principle   

  25  

and
that correction of errors in previously issued financial statements should be termed a "restatement." The provisions in SFAS 154 are effective for accounting changes and correction of
errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005, which is effective with the first quarter of fiscal 2007 beginning on August 1, 2006. The Company intends to adopt the
disclosure requirements upon the effective date of the pronouncement. The Company does not believe that the adoption of this pronouncement will have a material effect on its consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.   

   NOTE O OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION     

          Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information follow:   

Six Months Ended 
January 31,    

2006    
     
   2005    

(in millions)      

Cash paid during the period for:  

Interest related parties  
     
  $  
  2.9  
     
  $  
  4.1  

Interest other  

3.6  

0.5  

Income taxes  

0.8  

1.1  

Non-cash investing and financing activities:  

Preferred stock dividends  
     
  $  

$  
  15.4  

Preferred stock dividends in excess of stated amount  

21.4  

Adjustment to additional paid-in capital for deferred stock compensation  

0.4  

Financed purchase of property and equipment  

1.3  

Lease settled by issuance of note payable  

3.1  

NOTE P COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES     

          The Company and certain of the Company's subsidiaries are party to certain labor, product liability, and intellectual property infringement claims and litigation.
With respect to acquired companies, substantially all of such litigation and claims were commenced prior to acquisition. In accordance with SFAS 5,    "Accounting for
Contingencies,"    the Company accrued $14.5 million as of January 31, 2006 for the litigation and related legal fees where the Company believes a loss is probable
and reasonably
estimable. The Company believes it has good defenses in connection with many of these claims and intends to vigorously contest such claims or seek to reach settlements to the extent appropriate.   

          On
February 27, 2004, Peavey Electronics Corporation ("Peavey") filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Lauderdale County, Mississippi against Baan U.S.A., Inc. ("Baan
USA"). The complaint includes claims that Baan USA breached its warranties and obligations under the software license and support agreement and the professional services agreement entered into by the
parties. In addition, the complaint includes claims of fraud, fraudulent misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation and breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing against Baan USA. These
claims are based on allegations by Peavey of defects and deficiencies in, and failed implementation of, Baan USA's software.   

  26  

Peavey's
complaint asserts losses of $28.5 million, which Peavey claims is the amount spent by Peavey on the software and implementation, including license and consulting fees, and seeks
punitive damages, in an unspecified amount, interest and attorneys' fees. On April 1, 2004, Baan USA filed a motion to dismiss Peavey's complaint, which the Court granted in part, as well as an
answer to the complaint claiming a number of defenses. On September 13, 2005, the Court entered judgment dismissing claims for fraud, fraudulent misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation,
breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing and money had and received. The Court found that each of these claims is barred by the applicable statute of limitation. The parties participated in
Court ordered non-binding mediation on October 10 and 11, 2005. The parties did not reach a settlement during that mediation. The Company believes several of Peavey's remaining
claims are also barred by the statute of limitations. In addition, the Company has evidence that, in its view, suggests that there were no defects or deficiencies in the software and consulting
services provided to Peavey from Baan USA which could have caused the damages alleged by Peavey, and the Company believes that any such damages were caused by actions taken by Peavey to alter the Baan
USA software. Accordingly, the Company believes Baan USA has meritorious defenses in connection with the claims alleged by Peavey and intends to vigorously contest such claims. The Company has not
recorded any reserves associated with this case.   

          In
February 2005 New York University ("NYU"), filed a complaint against Epiphany, Inc. in the United States District Court in the Southern District of New York, and, the
complaint was served on Epiphany in May 2005, after discussions between the parties failed to resolve the matter. After its acquisition of Epiphany, SSA Global Technologies, Inc. was
added as a defendant in the lawsuit. The complaint alleges patent infringement of U.S. Patent Number 6,236,978. By its complaint, NYU seeks a permanent injunction against acts of infringement,
unspecified damages, attorney's fees, interest and costs. Although the Company is still evaluating the claims alleged by NYU, it believes it has meritorious defenses against such claims and demands
and intends to vigorously contest them.   

          The
Company is and may from time to time in the future become subject to certain other legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business. These routine litigation
matters are settled or defended, depending on the circumstances of each claim. While any legal proceeding has elements of uncertainty, the Company does not believe, based on historical experience and
current
facts, that the amount of any liability incurred in connection with these types of claims would have a material effect on the Company's financial condition or on the results of the Company's
operations.   

   NOTE Q SUBSEQUENT EVENT     

          On March 8, 2006, the Company acquired Provia Software, Inc. ("Provia"), a provider of supply chain execution solutions for approximately
$21.6 million in cash. The transaction was financed with cash on hand. The purpose of the acquisition was to enhance the Company's supply chain execution solutions for the small and
medium-size company market.   

  27  

Item 2.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.     

CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS            

          This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain the words
"believe," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate," "intend," "project," "plan," "will be," "will likely continue," "will likely result," or words or phrases with similar meaning. All of these
forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions made by our management that, although we believe to be reasonable, are inherently uncertain. Forward-looking statements involve risks
and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, economic, competitive, governmental and technological factors outside of our control, that may cause our business, strategy or actual results to
differ materially from the forward-looking statements. We operate in a changing environment in which new risks can emerge from time to time. It is not possible for management to predict all of these
risks, nor can it assess the extent to which any factor, or a combination of factors, may cause our business, strategy or actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking
statements. Factors you should consider that could cause these differences include, among other things:   

General
economic and business conditions, including exchange rate fluctuations;
           Our
ability to identify acquisition opportunities and effectively and cost-efficiently integrate acquisitions that we consummate;
           Our
ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting;
           Our
ability to attract and retain personnel, including key personnel;
           Our
success in developing and introducing new services and products; and,
           Competition
in the software industry, as it relates to both our existing and potential new customers.    

See
"Item 1A. Risk Factors" for other risks affecting our business. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.   

  28  

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS   OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS            

The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with all of the consolidated
historical financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q and Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also,
see "Item 6. Selected Financial Data" of our annual report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see "Cautionary Statement Concerning
Forward-Looking Statements" for a discussion of certain of the uncertainties, risks, and assumptions associated with these statements. References to fiscal 2004 and 2005 are to the twelve months
ending July 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Except as otherwise indicated herein, or as the context may otherwise require, the words "we," "our," "us," "SSA," "SSA Global" and "our company"
refer to SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.   

   Overview     

Company Background     

We are a leading global provider of enterprise software applications and related services. Our products and services are designed to help customers increase
operating efficiency and productivity by automating key business processes, improving collaboration among their customers, suppliers, employees and other partners, and facilitating analysis of
business trends. Our enterprise software applications are designed to improve various core enterprise resource planning, or ERP, functions, including accounting, human resource, inventory management,
manufacturing, payroll and purchase and sales processing. We also provide applications that are integrated extensions to our core ERP products, including corporate performance, customer relationship,
product lifecycle, supplier relationship and supply chain management products. We license our products to companies in a wide range of industries, including discrete and process manufacturing, retail,
wholesale, technical information services and the public sector, providing these industries with functionality that addresses their unique business requirements. We also provide after-market
maintenance and professional services. As of January 31, 2006, we had approximately 13,700 customer accounts, including customers that license through reseller
agreements and that are parties to revenue producing transactions with us at some time during the past three fiscal years. Due to this time-based measurement for customer accounts, our
customer count can change over time. The number of customers we serve generally increases as we acquire businesses and enter into arrangements with new customers and decreases when customers choose
not to renew annual support agreements. We expect our customer count figure to decrease by several thousand beginning in fiscal 2007 due to acquisitions crossing the three-year mark from
acquisition dates with customers that were not active during the three years. Headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, we employed 3,606 people in over 50 locations worldwide as of January 31, 2006.   

Operating Environment and Impact on our Industry and Business Strategy     

    Economic Conditions and Industry Environment     

Our operating performance for any time period is impacted by global macroeconomic trends. Beginning in calendar 2001 and through the first half of calendar 2003,
global economic conditions, especially in the United States and Europe, contracted and then stabilized. During the second half of calendar 2003 through calendar 2005, economic conditions have improved
with improvements in U.S. gross domestic product and some employment gains. Nevertheless, economic uncertainties coupled with continuing uncertainties associated with global terrorism and hostilities
and other influences that we can not control can lead to a challenging business environment for most businesses, including enterprise application software vendors such as SSA Global.   

          As
a result of these economic challenges and a maturing of the enterprise software market in general, we believe enterprise software preferences are undergoing a shift to lower cost,
modular,   

  29  

single-vendor
solutions that can be installed quickly and demonstrate a compelling return on investment.   

Impact of Economic Conditions on Our Business Strategy     

We believe challenging economic conditions have made it difficult for smaller, niche software vendors to thrive and achieve or maintain profitability and postive
cash flows. In addition, we believe that many smaller enterprise software vendors with quality products and customer relationships have less certain futures as compared to larger,
full-suite software vendors. In part, this has led to lower valuations at times for some of these vendors and has created an opportunity for us as we selectively pursue strategic
acquisitions from time to time to enhance our product lines and customer base. Our acquisitions of the interBiz division of Computer Associates International, Inc., or interBiz, Infinium
Software, Inc., or Infinium, EXE Technologies, Inc., or EXE and Epiphany are examples of this. We believe that additional acquisition opportunities may present themselves in the future.   

In
addition, recent enterprise software pricing trends have fluctuated between stable to declining, which can bring the price of enterprise software within reach of additional
mid-market customers, our largest target market.   

Impact of Economic Conditions on Our Operations     

The general economic conditions in recent years have resulted in corporations being more cautious and deliberate than in prior years in establishing and executing
on information technology, or IT, capital spending budgets, which include spending on enterprise application software initiatives. While we have not been immune to this impact, the productivity of our
sales force and other revenue-related personnel has either improved or remained stable during this time period. Even though there has been a general improvement in market conditions and the capital
spending environment in calendar 2004 and 2005, we may not be able to sustain our performance if economic conditions deteriorate in the future.   

Acquisitions Fiscal 2006     

On
August 1, 2005, we acquired Boniva Software, Inc., a provider of human capital management applications, for $2.5 million in cash.
           On
September 29, 2005, we acquired CRM solution provider Epiphany, for $107.1 million in cash including transaction costs. The transaction was financed with a
combination of Epiphany and SSA cash on hand. The purpose of the acquisition was to enhance and expand the existing CRM product functionality within our portfolio of solutions.
           On
March 8, 2006, we acquired Provia, a provider of supply chain execution solutions, for approximately $21.6 million in cash. No revenues were recorded in the
three or six months ended January 31, 2006 related to this acquisition.    

As
a key part of our growth strategy, we continuously evaluate acquisition opportunities and from time to time enter into non-binding letters of intent with potential
acquisition targets.   

Components of Statements of Operations     

Revenues.       Revenues consist of license fees, support and services and other revenues. License fee revenues is derived from
licensing of our software and third-party software products. Support revenues results from maintaining, supporting and providing periodic unspecified upgrades for previously licensed products.
Services and other revenues include revenues from consulting and education services, hardware and reimbursed expenses.   

  30  

We
recognize revenues in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' Statement of Position, or SOP 97-2,    "Software Revenue
Recognition,"    as amended by SOP 98-9,    "Modification of SOP 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to Certain
Transactions,"    and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 104,    "Revenue Recognition,"    or SAB 104. For software
license agreements that do not require significant modifications or customization of the software, we recognize license fees revenues when:   

persuasive
evidence of an agreement exists (it is our practice to enter into written contracts and to only recognize revenues on such contracts after they have been signed
by all parties and become effective);
           delivery
or performance has occurred (delivery is usually deemed to have occurred on the date the product is shipped, unless the terms of the contract provide otherwise);
           the
fee is fixed or determinable (a fee is fixed or determinable when it is required to be paid at a set amount within twelve months of the agreement date and not subject to
refund or adjustment); and
           collection
is probable (probability of collection is assessed based on the creditworthiness of the customer).    

We
typically enter into multiple element arrangements, which include both license and support arrangements. Revenues are allocated to each element based upon its fair value as determined
by vendor-specific objective evidence. Vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value for all elements of an arrangement is based upon the normal pricing when those products and services are sold
separately, and for support by the renewal rate offered to the customer for perpetual licenses. We allocate revenues to the perpetual license element of the arrangement using the residual value
method. This method requires us to defer revenues from the total fees associated with the arrangement in an amount equal to the fair value of the elements of the arrangement that has not been
delivered (support). Under the residual method, the remaining portion of the fee is allocated to the delivered element (perpetual license), which is recognized as revenue. We provide consulting and
education services, which are separately priced and are generally not essential to the functionality of our software products. We recognize revenues for consulting or education services as services
are performed. When we provide services deemed to be essential to the functionality of the software products licensed or when the licensed software requires significant production, modification or
customization, we recognize revenues on a percentage-of-completion basis in accordance with SOP 81-1   , "Accounting for Performance of
Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts."    In these cases, software license revenues are deferred and recognized based on labor hours incurred to date compared
to total estimated labor hours for the contract.   

          We
provide term licenses to a small percentage of our customers. The length of multi-year term licenses ranges from two to five years. Multi-year term licenses
are typically sold with a maintenance period equaling the term of the license. As a consequence, we determined that we would no longer be providing sufficient separate annual maintenance renewals to
our customers for multi-year term contracts and, therefore, would not have vendor-specific objective evidence of the fair value of maintenance. Accordingly, we
recognize the full value of the multi-element, multi-year term license contracts on a ratable basis over the length of the contract when the license and maintenance fees are bundled.   

           Cost of revenues.       Cost of revenues consists of cost of license fees revenues and cost of support, services and other
revenues.   

The
principal components of cost of license fees are commissions paid to resellers, amortization of capitalized software costs and acquired technology and royalties paid to
third-party software vendors.    
 
  31  

The
principal components of cost of support, services and other revenues are salaries paid to our customer support personnel and professional services personnel, amounts
paid for contracted professional services personnel and third-party resellers, maintenance royalties paid to third-party software vendors and hardware costs.    

Operating expenses.       Operating expenses consist principally of:   

Sales
and marketing expenses, which include salaries, commissions and other direct employment costs of our sales, marketing and pre-sales professionals, as well
as other marketing costs, including advertising, costs of trade shows and production of sales materials.
           Research
and development expenses, which consist primarily of salaries, other direct employment expenses and consulting fees associated with product development,
enhancements, upgrades, testing, quality assurance and documentation, as well as in-process research and development costs expensed at the time of an acquisition.
           General
and administrative expenses, which include salaries and other direct employment expenses of our administrative and management employees, as well as legal, accounting
and consulting fees and bad debt expense.
           Amortization
of intangible assets that we acquired, such as customer lists and patents.
           Restructuring
charges (benefit) consist of severance-related costs and related benefits for involuntarily terminated employees, costs of office and facilities closures and
contract terminations.    

Other income (expense).       Historically, other income (expense) has consisted primarily of interest expense related to
related-party debt and other indebtedness. Also included are miscellaneous non-operating gains and losses, such as gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and interest income.   

          Our
international sales are predominately invoiced and paid in foreign currencies and accounted for on a local functional currency basis. Our consolidated revenues and expenses are
affected by the fluctuation of foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar. See "Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk."   

Summary of Operating Results and Financial Metrics     

We use a number of financial metrics to evaluate our operations and establish financial performance targets. We focus on:   

revenue
mix, which consists of contributions from our core product lines and acquisitions to each of our three sources of revenues, license fees, support and services and
other revenues, as a percentage of total revenues;
           percentage
of total revenues for functional expense categories such as sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative costs;
           workforce
productivity measures such as revenues per employee and ratios thereof; and
           customer
contracting metrics such as average selling price of our software and annual customer support renewal rates. We have provided a summary of these and other key
financial and operational metrics as supplementary information to help you assess our performance.    
 
  32  

(1)    Refers
to our product lines owned for the entire current and prior fiscal year periods.
      (2)    Includes
cost of revenues.
      (3)    Annualized.
   
  33  

Results of Operations as a Percentage of Total Revenues     

          The following table sets forth certain components of our results of operations as a percentage of total revenues for the fiscal periods indicated:   

Revenues     

License Fee Revenues      

License fee revenues increased by $5.8 million, or 11% to $56.8 million during the quarter ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the quarter
ended January 31, 2005 and by $16.4 million, or 18%, to $108.8 million during the six months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to the comparable prior year period as a
result of increased transaction volumes associated with our products, increased average selling price and the Epiphany acquisition.   

          License
fees increased to 30% of total revenues during both the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to 29% and 27% of total revenues in the three and six
months ended January 31, 2005, respectively. Sales of our extension products, such as supply chain management and   

  34  

customer
relationship management software, represented 18% and 23% of license fees revenues in the three and six months ended January 31, 2005 and 26% of license fees revenues in both the three
and six months ended January 31, 2006, respectively. The increase in extension products as percentage of total license fee revenues is largely as a result of the Epiphany acquisition in
September 2005.   

          The
average contract value for licensed software was approximately $77,000 and $83,000 for software contracts signed in the three months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006,
respectively, and approximately $78,000 and $87,000 for contracts signed in the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively.   

In
the three months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, new customers represented approximately 10% and 8%, respectively, of software license contracts signed and 8% in both periods
of software licenses dollars associated with the contracts signed. In the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, new customers represented approximately 9% and 8%, respectively, of
software license contracts signed and 9% in both periods of software licenses dollars associated with the contracts signed. We believe tracking new customer and existing customer license fees is
important because:   

new
customers provide a future revenue growth platform for follow-on sales opportunities;
           new
customers provide an indicator of market acceptance of our products; and
           it
helps guide our resource allocation, including human capital and marketing decisions, as well as other investment decisions.    

The
percentage mix of sales to new and existing customers may vary from period to period.   

Support Revenues     

Support revenues increased by 5% to $90.9 million during the three months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to $86.9 million in the three
months ended in January 31, 2005 and increased 2% to $175.9 million during the six months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to $172.3 million in the six months ended in
January 31, 2005. As a percentage of total revenues, total support revenues remained constant at 48% in both the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to 49% and 50% in
the three and six months ended January 31, 2005, respectively, due to the inclusion of the support revenues from fiscal 2006 acquisitions and the increase in license fee revenue.   

Excluding
the impact of the fiscal 2006 acquisitions, our support revenue decreased approximately 4% during the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 compared to the prior
year periods. Although our support contract renewal percentages continue to be high, we have experienced an adverse dollar impact on our support revenues due to a stronger U.S. dollar (primarily
against the Euro, British pound and Japanese yen) this year as well as pricing pressure on support renewals.   

Services and Other Revenues     

Services and other revenues was 22% of total revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2006 and 2005 and the six months ended January 31, 2006
and 23% for the six months ended January 31, 2005. We pursue consulting service engagements at acceptable rates in relation to the nature of the
services performed for our customers and we may outsource services where it is difficult to differentiate ourselves from other vendors.   

Total Revenues by Employee     

Annualized revenues per average employee increased by 5% and 6% in the three and six months ended January 31, 2006, respectively, compared to the three and
six months ended January 31, 2005. The improvement in annualized revenues per average employee for the three and six months ended January 31, 2006 was attributable to:   

improved
sales force productivity;
           the
Epiphany acquisition; and
           improved
workforce productivity.    
 
  35  

Operating Expenses     

    Depreciation, amortization, in-process research and development and non-cash stock option expense     

The primary components of non-cash operating expenses are amortization charges, in-process research and development charges associated
with acquisitions and non-cash stock option charges. Amortization expense was $10.6 million and $12.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006,
respectively, and $21.9 million and $23.6 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. The six months ended January 31, 2006 results included a
$1.7 million in-process research and development charge associated with the Epiphany acquisition. Non-cash stock compensation expense was approximately
$2.4 million and $3.2 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively, and approximately $4.9 million and $6.5 million for the six months
ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively.   

          Effective
August 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R) requiring us to expense the fair value of stock options granted over the related requisite service period. We expect to
record stock-based compensation expense of $13.2 million in fiscal 2006, including $6.5 million recorded in the six months ended January 31, 2006, and $9.4 million,
$7.6 million, $4.8 million and $0.2 million in fiscal 2007 through 2010, respectively, for a total of $35.2 million based on option grants through January 31, 2006.
These amounts will increase in the future if additional stock option grants are made. See note C to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this quarterly report
on Form 10-Q.   

All other operating expenses     

All other operating expenses increased 6% and 7% in the three and six months ended January 31, 2006, respectively, as compared to the comparable prior year
periods, largely as a result of restructuring costs in fiscal 2006 and the Epiphany acquisition. Excluding these costs, cost per employee remained relatively constant between periods.   

Liquidity, Financial Condition and Capital Resources     

Cash and cash equivalents decreased $29.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006 to $136.0 million as of January 31, 2006
from $165.4 million as of July 31, 2005 primarily as a result of using cash to fund the Epiphany acquisition, partially offset by net proceeds from the debt financing, net of repayments
related-party debt.   

          In
September 2005, we entered into a $200.0 million term senior secured credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
administrative agent and Citicorp USA, Inc., as syndication agent. The proceeds from the senior secured credit facility were used to repay $151.8 million in related-party debt plus
accrued interest and provided funds for the Epiphany acquisition. A $25.0 million revolving credit facility is also made available. We recorded a charge of $3.3 million to
write-off the unamortized deferred financing fees associated with the related-party debt during the six months ended January 31, 2006. As of January 31, 2006, there was
$199.0 million outstanding under the term credit facility and no borrowings outstanding under the revolving facility. See " Liquidity and Capital Resources" below and note F
to our condensed consolidated financial statements.   

          In
the event we choose to make additional acquisitions, we may use cash on hand, incur additional debt or raise additional equity capital, or a combination thereof, to finance any such
acquisition.   

Critical Accounting Policies     

Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States of America. Some accounting policies require us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions about future events
that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and the accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined   

  36  

with
absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment, and actual results could differ from those estimates. We believe that the following accounting
policies are critical to understanding our historical and future performance as these policies affect the reported results and relate to the more significant areas involving management's judgments and
estimates:   

Revenue
recognition;
           Valuation
of accounts receivable;
           Capitalized
software costs and acquired technology;
           Valuation
of long-lived assets;
           Deferred
tax assets and liabilities;
           Restructuring
costs; and
           Stock-based
compensation.    

Our
accounting policies and related procedures are described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and
Result of Operation Critical Accounting Policies" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2005. Certain of our critical accounting
policies or portions thereof, have been included in this Form 10-Q due to the impact of events in the current fiscal year period, such as the Epiphany acquisition and adoption of
SFAS 123(R).   

           Business Combinations.       We have made a number of significant acquisitions and we plan to selectively pursue acquisitions in
the future. When recording acquisitions, we allocate the purchase price of the acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair
values. Valuation studies are performed to assist in determining the fair values of identifiable intangibles, including acquired technology, customer lists, patents and trade names. These valuations
require us to make significant estimates and assumptions.   

          In
addition, acquired deferred revenue is recognized at fair value to the extent it represents a legal obligation assumed by us in accordance with EITF 01-03,     "Accounting in a Business Combination for Deferred Revenue of an
Acquiree,"    or EITF 01-03. For EITF 01-03 purposes, we consider
post-contract customer support, or PCS, contracts in their entirety and service contracts to be legal obligations of the acquired entity. We are required to estimate the fair value of
acquired deferred revenue, which is determined by prices paid by willing participants in recent exchange transactions. We have recorded approximately $16.2 million, in aggregate, of acquired
deferred revenue as a result of the fiscal 2006 acquisitions, including approximately $15.2 million of deferred support revenue.   

          We
expect to fulfill all of the obligations underlying the customer support arrangements including "help desk" and technical support, "bug fixes" and periodic unspecified software
upgrades, when and if available. We consider the acquired PCS arrangement to be a single unit of accounting when determining the legal obligation assumed from the acquired entity. We have fulfilled
each underlying obligation element of the PCS arrangement and expect to fulfill these obligations in future acquisitions as well. However, in the event we acquire a business in the future and do not
intend to perform software development activities post-acquisition to provide unspecified software upgrades, when and if available, the fair value of acquired deferred support revenue
would be reduced at the acquisition date. If we had not committed to perform these obligations for the fiscal 2006 acquisitions, we estimate it would have resulted in a 38% aggregate decrease in
acquired deferred support revenue, or $5.7 million in aggregate, at the respective acquisition dates and a subsequent $5.7 million aggregate decrease in post-acquisition
revenue recognized, primarily in fiscal 2006.   

          We
make estimates of fair value based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of
acquired companies. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include future expected cash flows from license sales and customer contracts, acquired technologies and patents, as
well as   

  37  

assumptions
regarding the period of time the acquired technology or customer relationships will continue and the discount rate. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions
may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur.   

           Valuation of Long-Lived Assets.       Long-lived assets consist primarily of (a) property and
equipment, (b) goodwill, (c) customer lists, (d) patents, (e) trade names, (f) capitalized software costs and (g) acquired technology. Long-lived
assets subject to depreciation, amortization and impairment totaled $581.8 million at January 31, 2006, including $148.3 million related to the fiscal 2006 acquisitions. We
periodically evaluate the estimated useful life of property and equipment and identifiable intangible assets and, when appropriate, adjust the useful life, thereby increasing or decreasing the
depreciation and amortization expense recorded in the current period and in future reporting periods. The estimated economic useful lives of our long-lived assets may change based upon the
intended use of the asset or the period of time over which revenues are expected to be generated. To date, we have not been required to change the estimated useful life of any long-lived
assets. As of January 31, 2006, $190.4 million of our long-lived assets were subject to depreciation and amortization, including $46.2 million related to the fiscal
2006 acquisitions. If the useful lives of our identifiable intangible assets were reduced by one year, our amortization expense would increase by $15.8 million annually.   

          We
also assess the carrying value of property and equipment, customer lists, patents and acquired technology for impairment, or when changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable. Factors that could trigger an impairment review include the following:   

significant
underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results;
           significant
changes in technology or in the manner of use of our acquired assets or the strategy of our overall business; and
           significant
negative industry or economic trends.    

When
we determine that the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we measure
recoverability based on the undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the related asset or asset group. If we determine that a long-lived asset or asset group is not recoverable,
we measure the impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in the business. This process is
subjective as it requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future cash flows. To date, there have been no asset impairment charges based on these reviews. In addition, at each
reporting date, we compare the net realizable value of capitalized software development costs to the unamortized capitalized costs. To the extent the unamortized capitalized costs exceed the net
realizable value, the excess amount is written off.   

          We
have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, subject to amortization consisting of customer lists, patents, and trade names, on our balance sheet. As of January 31,
2006, customer lists, patents and trade names, net of accumulated amortization, were approximately $132.0 million, representing approximately 14% of our total assets and approximately 23% of
long-lived assets subject to depreciation, amortization and impairment. In the future, identifiable intangible assets may increase as a result of additional acquisitions we may do. Any
future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of the identifiable intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet could have an adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.   

          We
perform an annual impairment test for goodwill as of May 31 of each year as required by SFAS No. 142,    "Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets,"    or SFAS 142. SFAS 142 requires us to compare the fair value of our reporting units to the carrying amount, including goodwill, on an annual basis to
determine if there is potential impairment. We have determined that we have four reporting units for purposes of this test. We determined that our reporting units are equivalent to our operating
segments for SFAS 142 purposes. Fair value of the reporting units is determined by reference to our quoted   

  38  

market
value and using valuation methods including discounted cash flows, comparable company analysis and recent transaction analysis. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value,
goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered impaired. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test must be performed to
measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. We completed the annual impairment test in each of fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005. The results of those tests indicated no impairment of goodwill.   

          We
have recorded a significant amount of goodwill on our balance sheet. As of January 31, 2006, goodwill was approximately $391.4 million, representing approximately 41% of
our total assets and approximately 67% of our long-lived assets subject to depreciation, amortization and impairment. In the future, goodwill may increase as a result of additional
acquisitions we may do. Goodwill is recorded on the date of acquisition and is reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the
performance of our business, adverse market conditions and a variety of other circumstances. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of the goodwill
recorded on our balance sheet could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   

           Restructuring Costs.       Restructuring costs are primarily comprised of severance costs and related benefits, costs to eliminate
or vacate duplicate facilities and costs to terminate certain contractual commitments. Restructuring costs incurred in conjunction with the acquisitions have been accounted for under EITF
95-3,    "Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with Purchase Business Combinations,"    or EITF 95-3, and have been recognized as
a liability assumed in the purchase business combination. We account for restructuring costs not related to acquisitions in accordance with SFAS No. 146,    "Accounting for
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities,"    or SFAS 146. SFAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit plan or disposal activity
be recognized when the liability is incurred. SFAS 146 establishes that fair value is the objective for initial measurement of the liability. Accordingly, we record liabilities as they are
incurred as a restructuring charge in the statements of operations. Restructuring costs are based on plans that have been committed to by management. Restructuring cost estimates may change as
additional information becomes available and as management finalizes execution of the restructuring plan. Changes to the estimates of executing the plans accounted for under EITF 95-3 are
recorded as an adjustment to goodwill within one year of the acquisition date and to the results of operations thereafter. Changes in estimates to restructuring plans accounted for under
SFAS 146 are recorded in our results of operations as an adjustment to restructuring charges. A restructuring benefit of $1.8 million was recorded in the consolidated statement of
operations for fiscal 2005 resulting primarily from accrual adjustments related to actual Baan-related settlements for less than the amount previously accrued. A restructuring charge of
$5.4 million was recorded in the condensed consolidated statement of operations during the six months ended January 31, 2006 as a result of involuntary terminations of our employees.
Also, we recorded $22.5 million of restructuring liabilities at the time of the Epiphany acquisition of
which approximately $19.4 million of this amount related to remaining lease obligations for vacated office space, much of which is sublet for amounts less than our cost. We are presently
negotiating settlements with the respective landlords, which may result in changes to our estimated liability. We settled the lease related to certain Epiphany operations in Needham, Massachusetts in
January 2006 in order to terminate our obligations to lease the unoccupied space, in exchange for $2.2 million in cash and $3.5 million payable over 36 months.   

          Inherent
in the estimation of the costs related to our restructuring efforts are assessments related to the most likely expected outcome of the significant actions to accomplish lease
terminations. Changing business and real estate market conditions may effect the assumptions related to the timing and extent of our ability to terminate or sublease vacated space. We review the
status of restructuring liabilities on a quarterly basis and, if appropriate, we record changes to our restructuring liabilities based on management's most current estimates.   

  39  

Stock-Based Compensation.       On August 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS 123(R) effective August 1,
 2005, using a
modified prospective transition method. SFAS 123(R) eliminates the alternative to use the intrinsic value method of accounting that was provided in SFAS 123, which generally resulted in
no compensation expense recorded in the financial statements related to the issuance of equity awards to employees. SFAS No. 123(R) requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment
transactions be recognized in the financial statements. It establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for stock-based payment arrangements and requires all companies to apply a
fair-value-based measurement method in accounting for generally all share-based payment transactions with employees. This application will require us to record compensation expense for all
awards granted after the required effective date of SFAS 123(R) and for the unvested portion of awards granted between June 4, 2004 and July 31, 2005 that were outstanding at the
date of adoption, in addition, to the stock-based compensation to be recorded for options granted with exercise prices below fair value.   

The
Company expects the following impacts for stock options outstanding as of January 31, 2006 after estimating the impact of forfeitures over the requisite service periods (in
millions):   

*    This
amount includes $6.5 million of stock-based compensation expense recorded in the six months ended January 31, 2006.    

          Actual
stock option expense will differ from these estimated expense impacts due to the impact of future stock option grants and differences in actual forfeitures from the rate of
forfeitures estimated, as well as any future modifications to the stock option options outstanding at this time. The application of SFAS 123(R) allows management to choose from different
valuation methodologies and requires estimates that are inherently uncertain and unpredictable to value stock options, such as:   

Expected
term of the stock options;
           Risk-free
interest rate over the expected term;
           Expected
volatility of the underlying stock; and,
           Estimated
stock option forfeitures.    

While
management believes its valuation methodology and related assumptions are reasonable, actual experience may differ. See note C to our condensed consolidated financial
statements for discussion and impacts of implementing SFAS 123(R) effective August 1, 2005.   

   Results of Operations     

   Three Months Ended January 31, 2005 Compared to Three Months Ended January 31, 2006     

General     

          The Boniva and Epiphany acquisitions were completed in August and September 2005, respectively. The operating results for the quarter ended
January 31, 2006 include Boniva and Epiphany results for the entire period. References to our "core product lines" refer to our product lines owned during the entire three month periods ended
January 31, 2005 and 2006.   

  40  

Revenues       Total revenues     

Total
revenues were $178.0 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005 compared to $187.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006, an
increase of $9.9 million or 6%. The three months ended January 31, 2006 included $15.5 million of incremental revenues from the fiscal 2006 acquisitions. Revenues from our core
product lines were $178.0 million and $172.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. This decrease in revenues from our core product lines
resulted from a 6% decline in support, services and other revenue partially offset by a 3% increase in license fees.   

          Annualized
revenue per average employee increased as a result of additional license fee revenues and the Epiphany acquisition.   

   Segment Revenues and Profits     

          We primarily manage our business on a geographic basis. Our four geographic business segments are:   

North
America, which consists of the United States and Canada;
           Europe,
Middle East and Africa, or our EMEA region;
           Asia
Pacific, which consists of Asia, the Pacific Rim and Japan; and
           Latin
America, which consists of Mexico and Central and South America.    

Revenues by Segment     

41  

Segment Profit     

Revenues
from North America increased $12.6 million or 17% for the three months ended January 31, 2006 over the prior year period. The fiscal 2006 acquisitions accounted
for $10.2 million of the increase while license fee and support revenues from our core product lines increased $2.6 million. The increase in license fee revenues was principally
attributable to customer orders for the SSA ERP LN , one of our enterprise resource planning products, as well as extension products.   

          Segment
profits from North America increased $3.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the prior year period. Segment profits from North
America were 48% of revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2005 and 46% for the three months ended January 31, 2006. The increase in segment profit was attributable to the
increase in license fee revenue.   

          For
the three months ended January 31, 2006, revenues from EMEA decreased $0.9 million or 1% as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2005 as a result of a
$6.5 million drop in support, services and other revenues from core product lines. This was partially offset by $5.0 million of increased revenues attributable to the fiscal 2006
acquisitions. Much of the decrease in core revenue was attributable to decreased support revenue attributable to a stronger U.S. dollar during the three months ended January 31, 2006.   

Segment
profits from EMEA increased $0.3 million in the three months ended January 31, 2006 compared to the prior year period. Segment profits from EMEA were 19% of
revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2005 and 20% for the three months ended January 31, 2006.   

          Revenues
from the Asia Pacific segment decreased $4.5 million or 20% in the three months ended January 31, 2006 compared to the three months ended January 31, 2005
largely due to decreased revenues in Japan.   

          Segment
profits from Asia Pacific decreased $2.8 million in the three months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2005. Segment
profits from Asia Pacific were 16% of segment revenues in the three months ended January 31, 2005 and 4% in the three months ended January 31, 2006 as a result of the revenue decrease.   

          Revenues
from Latin America increased $2.7 million or 36% in the three months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the prior year period primarily as a result higher
service license fee revenues.   

          Segment
profits from Latin America increased $2.2 million in the three months ended January 31, 2005 to $1.5 million due to increased license fee revenues and lower
bad debt expense.   

          Sales
outside the United States accounted for approximately 61% and 57% of our total revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively.   

  42  

License fee revenue     

Total
license fee revenues were $51.0 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $56.8 million for the three months ended January 31,
2006, an increase of $5.8 million or 11%. For the three months ended January 31, 2006, $4.2 million of the incremental license fee revenues came from the fiscal 2006 acquisitions.
The increase of $1.6 million from our core product lines reflected increased customer orders for the SSA ERP LN  product and extension products and an increased average selling price.
Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate differentiations between periods, license fee revenues from core product lines increased 7% in the three months ended January 31, 2006 as compared
to the prior year period.   

   Support revenues     

Total
support revenues were $86.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $90.9 million for the three months ended January 31,
2006, an increase of $4.0 million or 5%. The increase of $7.4 million attributable to the fiscal 2006 acquisitions was partially offset by a reduction in support revenues of
$3.4 million attributable to our core product lines due primarily to a stronger U.S. dollar in fiscal 2006.   

   Services and other revenues     

Total
services and other revenues were $40.1 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $40.2 million for the three months ended
January 31, 2006, an increase of $0.1 million. Services and other revenues attributable to our core product lines were $40.1 million and $36.3 million for the three months
ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. The decrease this year is due to a decrease in hardware revenue.   

  43  

Cost of Revenues       Cost of license fee revenue     

Total
cost of license fee revenues were $10.3 for the three months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $13.7 million for the three months ended January 31, 2006,
an increase of $3.4 million or 33%. The $1.0 million change in capitalized software and acquired technology amortization was due to the impact of the fiscal 2006 acquisitions. The
remaining increase in total cost for the three months ended January 31, 2006 was due to a greater mix of third-party products and reseller volume.   

   Cost of support, services and other revenue     

Cost
of support and services and other revenues was $49.1 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $50.0 million for the three months ended
January 31, 2006, an increase of $0.9 million or 2%. Approximately $3.9 million of this increase was attributable to the impact of the fiscal 2006 acquisitions. The decrease in
core product line cost of $3.0 million was largely attributable to reduced hardware costs.   

          The
gross profit related to support and services and other revenues increased from 61% in the three months ended January 31, 2005 to 62% in the three months ended
January 31, 2006 largely as a result of lower hardware costs related to a decrease in hardware revenues.   

  44  

Operating Expenses     

   Total operating expenses     

Total
operating expenses were $101.6 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $108.8 million for the three months ended January 31,
2006, an increase of $7.2 million or 7%. Operating expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2006 included $9.4 million in incremental expenses from the fiscal 2006
acquisitions.   

          Included
in operating expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006 were $6.4 million and $7.2 million, respectively, of amortization expense
associated with acquisitions, and $2.3 million and $3.2 million, respectively, of non-cash stock compensation expense. The increase in non-cash stock compensation
expense reflected the adoption of SFAS 123(R).   

   Sales and marketing expenses     

Total
sales and marketing expenses were $46.6 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $49.2 million for the three months ended
January 31, 2006, an increase of $2.6 million or 6%. For the three months ended January 31, 2006, approximately $3.9 million of incremental expense was due to the fiscal
2006 acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease of $1.9 million in our core product lines reflecting lower spending for marketing.   

  45  

Research and development expenses     

Total
research and development expenses were $25.5 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $28.5 million for the three months ended
January 31, 2006, an increase of $3.0 million or 12%. For the three months ended January 31, 2006, research and development expenses increased due primarily to the impact of the
fiscal 2006 acquisitions.   

General and administrative expenses     

Total
general and administrative expenses were $23.1 million for the three months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $23.0 million for the three months ended
January 31, 2006, a decrease of $0.1 million. General and administrative expenses increased $1.7 million as a result of the fiscal 2006 acquisitions and declined by
$1.6 million in our core product lines due to lower bad debt expense.   

Restructuring changes (benefits)     

For the three months ended January 31, 2006, restructuring was a charge of $0.9 million. There was no restructuring charge or benefit recorded in
the three months ended January 31, 2005. See note K to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.   

   Other Income (Expense)     

           Interest expense.       Interest expense related parties was $4.1 million for the three months ended
January 31, 2005 and $0 for the three months ended January 31, 2006, a decrease of $4.1 million, reflecting the repayment of $81.2 million of related-party debt with
proceeds from our initial public offering in June 2005 and the repayment in September 2005 of the remaining related-party debt with the proceeds of the new $200.0 million senior
secured term credit facility. See the discussion of debt financing in " Liquidity and Capital Resources".   

           Other income (expense).       We recorded income of $0.2 million and expense of $0.3 million in the three months
ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively, reflecting net foreign exchange gains and   

  46  

losses
in the periods. The net foreign exchange gain and loss in each period reflected the impact of exchange rate changes on intercompany balances between our subsidiaries.   

           Provision for income tax expense.       The provision for income tax was $5.2 million and $5.7 million in the three
months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 39% and 46% for the three months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. The
effective rates exceeded the U.S. statutory rate of 34% in both periods due to state income taxes, income tax rate differences in foreign countries and losses in entities where tax net operating
losses already have a full valuation allowance. We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 46% for the remainder of fiscal 2006.   

   Earnings (Loss) per Share     

For
the three months ended January 31, 2005, we calculated basic earnings per share using the two-class method. Under the two-class method, net income for
any given period was allocated between common stock and the Series A convertible preferred stock outstanding prior to our initial public offering in May 2005, on the basis of weighted
average number of shares outstanding during the period. Net loss was allocated solely to the common stockholders since, according to the terms of our prior Certificate of Incorporation, the
Series A convertible preferred stock was not obligated to share in our losses. In connection with our initial public offering, all of our Series A convertible preferred stock converted
into shares of our common stock.   

          Basic
earnings per common share is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. For the three months ended January 31, 2005, basic earnings per common share
included the effect of 4,785,000 common shares issued on February 25, 2004, in connection with an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation that reclassified each share of Series A
convertible preferred stock into one share of Series A convertible preferred stock and 1.595 shares of common stock. Basic earnings attributed to common shares included the allocated share of
undistributed earnings.   

   Six Months Ended January 31, 2005 Compared to Six Months Ended January 31, 2006     

   General     

          The Boniva and Epiphany acquisitions were completed in August and September 2005, respectively. The operating results for the six months ended
January 31, 2006 include Boniva results for the entire period and approximately four months of Epiphany results. References to our "core product lines" refer to our product lines owned during
the entire six month periods ended January 31, 2005 and 2006.   

  47  

Revenues     

   Total revenues     

Total
revenues were $344.5 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $365.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006, an increase of
$20.9 million or 6%. The six months ended January 31, 2006 included $21.5 million of incremental revenues from the fiscal 2006 acquisitions. Revenues from our core product lines
were $344.5 million and $343.9 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. This decrease in revenues from our core product lines resulted from a 4%
overall decline in support, services and other revenue partially offset by an 11% increase in license fees revenue.   

Annualized
revenue per average employee increased as a result of additional license fee revenues and improved productivity of the market-facing personnel in our business.   

   Revenues by Segment     

Segment Profit     

48  

Revenues
from North America increased $25.1 million or 17% in the six months ended January 31, 2006 over the prior year period. The fiscal 2006 acquisitions accounted for
$14.0 million of the increase while revenues from our core product lines increased $11.6 million. This increase was principally attributable to SSA ERP LN  orders, as well as
extension product orders.   

          Segment
profits from North America increased $12.0 million in the six months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the prior year period. Segment profits from North America
were 47% of revenues for both the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006. The increase in profit was attributable to the increase in license fee revenue.   

          For
the six months ended January 31, 2006, revenues from EMEA decreased $1.4 million or 1% as compared to the six months ended January 31, 2005 as a result of an
overall decrease of $9.0 million in support, services and other revenues, partially offset by a $7.3 million increase attributed to the fiscal 2006 acquisitions. The decrease in core
support, services and other revenues was mainly attributable to a stronger U.S. dollar this year and some pricing pressure on support contracts.   

          Segment
profits from EMEA decreased $2.8 million in the six months ended January 31, 2006 compared to the prior year period. Segment profits from EMEA were 18% of segment
revenues for the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 17% for the six months ended January 31, 2006. The decrease in segment profits was attributable to the decline in revenue and
changes in the revenue mix.   

          Revenues
from the Asia Pacific segment decreased $4.9 million or 12% in the six months ended January 31, 2006 compared to the six months ended January 31 2005
largely due to decreased revenue in Japan.   

          Segment
profits from Asia Pacific decreased $4.2 million in the six months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the six months ended January 31, 2005. Segment
profits from Asia Pacific were 16% of segment revenues in the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 6% in the six months ended January 31, 2006 as a result of lower revenue.   

          Revenues
from Latin America increased $2.1 million or 13% in the six months ended January 31, 2006 as compared to the prior year period primarily as a result of an increase
in service revenue.   

          Segment
profits from Latin America increased $0.4 million in the six months ended January 31, 2005 to $1.7 million as compared to $1.3 million in the prior
year. Segment profits from Latin America were 8% of segment revenues in the six months ended January 31, 2005 versus 9% of segment revenues in the six months ended January 31, 2006 due
to lower bad debt expense.   

          Sales
outside the United States accounted for approximately 60% and 56% of our total revenues for the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively.   

   License fee revenue     

49  

Total license fee revenues were $92.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $108.8 million for the six months ended January 31,
2006, an increase of $16.4 million or 18%. For the six months ended January 31, 2006, $6.1 million of the incremental license fee revenue came from the fiscal 2006 acquisitions.
An increase of $10.3 million came from our core product lines, primarily from orders for the SSA ERP LN  product and extension products. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate
differentiations between periods, license fee revenues from core product lines increased 13% in the six months ended January 31, 2006 compared to the prior year period.   

   Support revenues     

Total
support revenues were $172.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $175.9 million for the six months ended
January 31, 2006, an increase of $3.6 million on 2%. The increase of $10.0 million attributable to the fiscal 2006 acquisitions was partially offset by a reduction of
$6.4 million attributable to our core product lines. Lower current year core product revenues resulted from a stronger U.S. dollar in fiscal 2006 and some pricing pressure.   

   Services and other revenues     

Total
services and other revenues were $79.8 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $80.7 million for the six months ended
January 31, 2006, an increase of $0.9 million or 1%. Services and other revenues attributable to our core product lines were $79.8 million and $75.3 million for the six
months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively, reflecting a decline in hardware revenue this year.   

   Cost of Revenues     

   Cost of license fee revenue     

Cost
of license fee revenues were $20.5 on for the six months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $25.8 million for the six months ended
January 31, 2006, an increase of $5.3 million or 26%. Approximately $1.1 million of the change in capitalized software and acquired technology amortization   

  50  

was
due to the impact of the fiscal 2006 acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease in amortization from prior acquisitions. The remaining increase was due a greater mix of third-party products and
reseller volume.   

   Cost of support, services and other revenue     

Cost
of support and services and other revenues was $95.7 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $100.3 million for the six
months ended January 31, 2006, an increase of $4.6 million or 5%. Approximately $5.3 million of this increase was attributed to the impact of the fiscal 2006 acquisitions.   

          The
gross profit related to support and services and other revenues decreased from 62% in the six months ended January 31, 2005 to 61% in the six months ended January 31,
2006 primarily as a result of reduced hardware revenues in our core product line discussed above.   

   Operating Expenses     

   Total operating expenses     

Total
operating expenses were $197.6 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $213.6 million for the six months ended
January 31, 2006, an increase of $16.0 million or 8%. Approximately $13.0 million of this increase resulted from increased operating expenses from our fiscal 2006 acquisitions.
Included in operating expenses for the six months ended January 31, 2005 were approximately $12.8 million of amortization expense associated with acquisitions compared to
$13.8 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006 and $4.7 million of non-cash stock compensation expense compared to $5.9 million in the six months ended
January 31, 2006. The increase in non-cash stock compensation expense reflects the adoption of SFAS 123(R). Total operating expenses for the six months ended
January 31, 2006 also included a $1.7 million in-process research and development charge related to the Epiphany acquisition. Core operating expenses, excluding intangible
asset amortization, stock compensation expense and in-process research and development and the impact of the fiscal 2006 acquisitions, were comparable between periods.   

  51  

Sales and marketing expenses     

Total
sales and marketing expenses were $90.9 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $95.6 million for the six months ended
January 31, 2006, an increase of $4.7 million or 5%. For the six months ended January 31, 2006, approximately $5.3 million of incremental expense was due to the fiscal 2006
acquisitions. Core product line costs decreased as a result of lower spending on marketing partially offset by investments made in our sales force.   

   Research and development expenses     

Total
research and development expenses were $49.8 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $55.6 million for the six months
ended January 31, 2006, an increase of $5.8 million or 12%. For the six months ended January 31, 2006, research and development expenses increased $5.0 million due to the
fiscal 2006 acquisitions and $1.7 million related to an in-process research and development charge in connection with the Epiphany acquisition.   

   General and administrative expenses     

Total
general and administrative expenses were $45.6 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 as compared to $43.2 million for the six
months ended January 31, 2006, a decrease of $2.4 million or 5%. General and administrative expenses declined by $4.9 million for core product lines due to lower bad debt expense
and infrastructure costs. This decrease was partially offset by a $2.7 million increase in expense attributable to the fiscal 2006 acquisitions.   

  52  

Restructuring changes (benefits)     

          Restructuring charges (benefits) were a benefit of $1.5 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 and a charge of $5.4 million for
the six months ended January 31, 2006. See note K to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.   

Other Income (Expense)     

           Interest expense.       Interest expense related parties was $8.0 million for the six months ended
January 31, 2005 and $1.5 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006, a decrease of $6.5 million, reflecting the repayment of $81.2 million of related-party
debt with proceeds from our initial public offering in June 2005 and the repayment in September 2005, of the remaining $151.8 million of related-party debt with the proceeds of
the new $200.0 million senior secured term credit facility. The loss on the early retirement of related-party debt resulted in non-cash, non-operating charge of
approximately $3.3 million of unamortized financing fees.   

           Other income (expense).       We recorded income of $1.2 million and expense of $2.1 million in the six months ended
January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively, reflecting net foreign exchange gains and losses in the periods. The net foreign exchange gain and loss in each period reflected the impact of exchange
rates movements on intercompany balances between our subsidiaries.   

           Provision for income tax expense.       The provision for income tax was $9.6 million and $7.8 million in the six
months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 40% and 51% for the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. The effective
rates exceeded the U.S. statutory rate of 34% in both periods due to state income taxes, income tax rate differences in foreign countries and losses in entities where tax net operating losses already
have a full valuation allowance. The effective tax rate for the six months ended January 31, 2006 was also increased by the $1.7 million in-process research and development
charge related to Epiphany, which is not tax deductible.   

   Earnings (Loss) per Share     

See
the discussion of our earnings (loss) per share calculation and components included in the discussion of the three months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006.   

  53  

Liquidity and Capital Resources     

          Our principal sources of liquidity and capital resources historically have been funds derived from operations, borrowings pursuant to promissory notes, the
issuance of convertible preferred stock, the issuance of common stock in our initial public offering and the credit facility we entered into in September 2005. The proceeds from our initial
public offering were largely used to pay down our existing debt. We intend to fund future operating capital needs through cash on hand, future operating cash flows, and potential debt or equity
financings in the future. In September 2005, we entered into a $225.0 million senior secured credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
administrative agent and Citicorp USA, Inc., as syndication agent, including a $200.0 million term facility and a $25.0 million revolving credit facility. Proceeds from the term
facility were used to refinance approximately $154.7 million of senior unsecured related party indebtedness (approximately $151.8 million of principal plus accrued interest) and to fund
the Epiphany acquisition. As of January 31, 2006, there was $199.0 million outstanding under the term credit facility and no amounts were outstanding under the revolving facility.   

We
believe that the amounts available from these and other sources will be sufficient to fund operations and capital requirements for the foreseeable future. However, changes in business
circumstances or acquisition opportunities may require us to raise additional equity capital or debt in the future. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that changing business circumstances will not
cause us to require additional capital for reasons that are not currently anticipated or that the additional capital will be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. If funding is insufficient
it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.   

Days
sales outstanding, or DSOs, in accounts receivable were 97 days as of January 31, 2005 and 89 days as of January 31, 2006. DSOs are calculated based on
net accounts receivable divided by average daily revenue for the quarters ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, excluding the impact of acquisitions consummated during the respective quarter. The
decrease in DSOs as compared to January 31, 2005 was largely related to favorable collection trends. There were not any significant changes in payment terms or credit policies in the twelve
months ended January 31, 2006. Our DSOs tend to be highest in our second quarter ending January 31 and lowest in the quarters ending July 31 and October 31 due to
seasonality of support renewal billings.   

          As
of July 31, 2005, we had net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, that could offset approximately $276.0 million of future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax
purposes. The utilization of $244.0 million of these tax losses, however, is restricted under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code to the extent they relate to acquired businesses,
with an annual limit of $9.2 million available for use.
Under Section 382, if an ownership change occurs, such as an acquisition, the ability to utilize NOLs may be subject to restriction. In addition, we had NOLs of approximately
$505.0 million at July 31, 2005 million that would enable us to offset future taxable income of our foreign subsidiaries. Approximately $368.4 million of these foreign NOLs
expire at various dates through 2013. We estimate we will pay cash taxes totaling between approximately $3.0 million and $4.0 million related to federal, state and foreign income taxes
in fiscal 2006. As a result of the Epiphany acquisition, our NOLs for U.S. federal income taxes and foreign income taxes increased by approximately $295.0 million and $51.0 million,
respectively. The utilization of the U.S. NOLs will be limited to approximately $100.0 million, with an annual limit of $5.0 million under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue
Code.   

Cash Flows     

Operating Activities.       The principal drivers of our cash flow from operating activities are the cash portion of operating
income (operating income plus non-cash operating expense items such as depreciation, amortization, in-process research and development charges, and non-cash stock   

  54  

compensation)
less cash paid for interest, income taxes, restructuring costs and other changes in working capital.   

During
the six months ended January 31, 2006, our cash flows provided by operations were $41.0 million compared to $20.2 million during the six months ended
January 31, 2005. The primary driver of this change was working capital changes in the six months ended January 31, 2006 associated with support revenue renewal cycles and DSO
improvements.   

Investing and Financing Activities.     

The following narrative summarizes our historical investing and financing activities for each period presented.   

Investing
activities resulted in cash outflows totaling $3.7 million and $116.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Investing
activities for the six months ended January 31, 2005 included cash outflows of $4.7 million for capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs, while investing
activities for the six months ended January 31, 2006 included $109.6 million (net of cash acquired) for the Epiphany and Boniva acquisitions and $6.7 million for capital
expenditures and capitalized software development costs.   

          Financing
activities resulted in net cash outflows of $26.7 million and net cash inflows of $44.1 million for six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006,
respectively. Financing cash outflows for the six months ended January 31, 2005 included $25.0 million for a cash dividend paid to preferred stockholders and scheduled payments of
$1.7 million under promissory notes and other debt payments. Financing cash inflows for the six months ended January 31, 2006 included $200.0 million of proceeds from the senior
secured term credit facility of which $151.8 million of these proceeds were used to repay existing related-party debt plus accrued interest. Other financing cash flows for the six months ended
January 31, 2006 netted a cash outflow of $4.1 million, including outflows of $1.9 million of stock issuance costs related to our initial public offering paid in this period,
$4.4 million in debt principal payments and $3.3 million of debt financing costs related to the new senior secured term credit facility. Financing cash inflows included
$3.3 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $2.2 million from the release of restricted cash balances.   

Debt and Credit Sources     

On September 22, 2005, we entered into a senior secured credit agreement, which is referred to as the credit agreement, with a syndicate of financial
institutions in which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., was administrative agent, and Citicorp USA, Inc., was syndication agent. Pursuant to the credit agreement, the lenders made a
$200.0 million term loan, maturing September 22, 2011, or the term facility, and a five-year revolving credit facility of up to $25.0 million, or the revolving
facility. The revolving facility is available for loans and for letters of credit to support payment obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business. Proceeds of the term facility were used to
repay all related-party debt of approximately $151.8 million of principal and accrued interest, with the remainder used to pay fees related to the financing and to partially fund the Epiphany
acquisition. The term facility and the revolving facility are collateralized by substantially all of our assets and the assets of our domestic subsidiaries and guaranteed by all of our domestic
subsidiaries. We were in compliance with all debt covenants at January 31, 2006. As of January 31, 2006, $199.0 million was outstanding under the term facility. See note F
for discussion of the debt financing, including discussion of debt convents and guarantees.   

          On
June 4, 2004, in connection with the Arzoon acquisition, we issued subordinated convertible notes in the aggregate principal amount of $12.0 million to Arzoon and
certain of its investors. The interest rate on the notes is 5% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears on the first day of each calendar quarter, until maturity, conversion or repayment. The maturity
date on the promissory notes is   

  55  

June 4,
2007. Upon a change of control of our company where our successor is a publicly traded company or the initial public offering of our successor company if it is a
privately-held company when it acquires us, each noteholder has the right to convert any portion of the amount then outstanding on such note into shares of our common stock at a conversion
price of $19.64 per share, subject to an anti-dilution adjustment. As of January 31, 2006, we had an aggregate of $12.0 million principal outstanding on the notes.   

As
of January 31, 2005, we had $7.3 million in outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds, which are collateralized. The pledged collateral is reflected on our balance
sheet as restricted cash. The letters of credit for long-term commitments, such as facilities leases, renew annually and at reduced levels through 2016.   

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements     

In the normal course of business, we are a party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, such as bank letters of credit, performance or
surety bonds and other obligations, such as operating leases, which are not reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Such financial instruments are valued based on the amount of
exposure under the instrument and likelihood of performance being required. Management does not expect any material losses to result from these off-balance sheet instruments and,
therefore, is of the opinion that their fair value is zero.   

Contractual Obligations     

We lease office facilities under operating leases, which generally require us to pay operating costs, including property taxes, insurance and maintenance. We also
lease certain computer equipment under noncancelable operating leases. Rent expense under such leases aggregated $5.5 million and $4.5 million for the three months ended
January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively, and $10.6 million and $9.0 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively.   

          On
November 1, 2005, we entered into an interest rate swap with JPMorgan Chase, N.A. effective December 28, 2005 whereby we fixed our base interest rate at 4.90% (before
contractual margin of 2.00%) on $150.0 million of variable rate debt (based on the London interbank offered rate, or LIBO rate, plus a contractual margin) for three years. The interest expense
on the unhedged portion of the debt will fluctuate based on the LIBO rate in accordance with the credit agreement. For purposes of reflecting contractual interest commitments on this table, interest
was computed using the interest rate of 6.90% in effect under the interest rate swap on the term credit facility until December 28, 2008 on both the hedged and unhedged portions of the
outstanding debt, as well as for the period subsequent to December 28, 2008. This rate was used since it is the most objective rate available at the time of this filing.   

56  

Other
commercial commitments as of January 31, 2006 include the following:   

The
Company's purchase commitments represent long-term minimum usage obligations under telecommunications arrangements.   

   Capital Expenditures     

          Our capital expenditures were $3.4 million and $2.8 million for the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Our capital
expenditures have been minimal due to the reuse of computers and networking equipment obtained through our acquisitions and due to our leasing of equipment under operating leases. For the remainder of
fiscal 2006, we expect our capital expenditures and capitalized software to be approximately $11.5 million as we replace and invest in computer hardware and invest in our products.   

   Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements     

   SFAS 123(R)     

          On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123(R). This statement is a revision of FASB 123,    "Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation,"    as amended, supersedes APB 25   , "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees"    and its related implementation guidance
and amends SFAS 95,    "Statement of Cash Flows."    SFAS 123(R) eliminates the alternative to use the intrinsic value method of accounting that was
provided in SFAS 123, which generally resulted in no compensation expense recorded in the financial statements related to the issuance of equity awards to employees. SFAS 123(R) also requires
that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. It establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share-based
payment arrangements and requires all companies to apply a fair-value-based measurement method in accounting for generally all share-based payment transactions with employees. We will
adopt SFAS 123(R) effective August 1, 2005, using a modified prospective transition method. This method will require that we record compensation expense for all awards granted after the
required effective date and for the unvested portion of awards granted between June 4, 2004 and July 31, 2005 that were outstanding at the date of adoption, in addition to the
stock-based compensation to be recorded for options granted with exercise prices below fair value.   

  57  

We
expect the following impacts for stock options outstanding as of January 31, 2006 after estimating the impact of forfeitures over the requisite service periods:   

*    This
amount includes $6.5 million of stock-based compensation expense recorded in the six months ended January 31, 2006.    

          Actual
stock option expense may differ from these estimated expense impacts due to the impact of future stock option grants and differences in actual forfeitures from the rate of
forfeitures estimated, as well as modifications to the stock option options outstanding at this time. See note C for discussion and impacts of implementing SFAS 123(R) effective
August 1, 2005.   

   SFAS No. 153     

          On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153,    "Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion
No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions,"    or SFAS 153. SFAS No. 153 addresses the measurement of exchanges of nonmonetary assets and redefines the
scope of transactions that should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged. The provisions in SFAS 153 are effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal
periods beginning after June 15, 2005, which became effective with our first quarter of fiscal 2006. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.   

   FSPs 109-1 and 109-2     

          On October 22, 2004, the President signed the    "American Jobs Creation Act of 2001"    or the Act. On
December 21, 2004, the FASB issued two FASB Staff Positions, or FSPs regarding the accounting implications of the Act related to (1) the deduction for qualified domestic production
activities ("FSP SFAS No. 109-1") and (2) the one-time tax benefit for the repatriation of foreign earnings ("FSP SFAS No. 109-2"). The
guidance in the FSPs applies to financial statements for periods ending after the date the Act was enacted.   

          FSP
SFAS 109-1,    "Application of FASB Statement No. 109, 'Accounting for Income Taxes' for the Tax Deduction Provided to U.S.-Based
Manufacturers by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004,"    clarifies that the tax deduction for domestic manufacturers under the Act should be accounted for as a
special deduction in accordance with SFAS 109   , "Accounting for Income Taxes."    We currently are evaluating the impact, if any, of
FSP-109-1 on our consolidated financial statements.   

          FSP
SFAS 109-2,    "Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of
2004,"    provides enterprises more time (beyond the financial reporting period during which the Act took effect) to evaluate the Act's impact on the enterprise's plan for
reinvestment or repatriation of certain foreign earnings for purposes of applying the FASB Statement. The Act provides for a temporary 85 percent dividends received deduction on certain foreign
earnings repatriated in fiscal 2005 or 2006. The deduction would result in an approximate 5.1 percent federal tax on a portion of the foreign earnings repatriated. State, local and   

  58  

foreign
taxes could apply as well. To qualify for this federal tax deduction, the earnings must be reinvested in the United States pursuant to a domestic reinvestment plan. Certain other criteria in
the Jobs Act must be satisfied as well. We have studied the provisions of the Act related to the repatriation of earnings and do not intend to repatriate any earnings as of July 31, 2005.   

   SFAS No. 154     

          In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,    "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections A replacement of APB
Opinion No 20 and FASB Statement No. 30,"    or SFAS 154. SFAS 154 replaces APB Opinion No. 20,    "Accounting
Changes,"   and SFAS No. 3,    "Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements,"    and changes the requirements for
the accounting for, and reporting of, a change in accounting principles. SFAS 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principles and changes required by an accounting pronouncement
in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions. Under previous guidance, changes in accounting principle were recognized as a cumulative effect in the
net income of the period of the change. SFAS 154 requires retrospective application of changes in accounting principle, limited to the direct effects of the change, to prior periods' financial
statements, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. Additionally, SFAS 154 requires that a change in depreciation,
amortization or depletion method for long-lived, nonfinancial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate affected by a change in accounting principle and that correction of
errors in previously issued financial statements should be termed a "restatement." The provisions in SFAS 154 are effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005, which is effective with our first quarter of fiscal 2007 beginning on August 1, 2006. We intend to adopt the disclosure requirements upon the effective
date of the pronouncement. We do not believe that the adoption of this pronouncement will have a material effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

   Item 3.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk     

          We are exposed to interest rate risk and foreign currency risks, as described below. We do not use derivative financial instruments to hedge our foreign currency
exchange rate risks or for speculative investment purposes.   

           Interest Rate Risk.       On September 22, 2005, we repaid approximately $151.8 million of related-party indebtedness
with borrowings under a new $200.0 million senior secured term credit facility available from a syndicate of financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and
Citicorp USA, Inc., as syndication agent, as well as a $25.0 million revolving credit facility. These new credit facilities provide for a floating interest rate. See note F for
discussion of the interest rates applicable under the facilities.   

          In
addition, our cash and cash equivalents are subject to interest rate risk. We manage this risk by maintaining cash equivalents with relatively short average maturities. We also hold
cash balances in accounts with commercial banks in the United States and foreign countries. These cash balances represent operating balances only and are invested in short-term deposits of
the local bank. Generally, operating cash balances held at banks outside of the United States are denominated in the local currency.   

          The
weighted-average yield on interest-bearing investments held as of July 31, 2005 and January 31, 2006 was approximately 2.45% and 3.03%, respectively. Based on our
investment holdings at January 31, 2006, a 100 basis point decline in the average yield would reduce our annual interest income by approximately $1.4 million.   

The
United States Federal Reserve Board, or Federal Reserve, influences the general market rates of interest. The federal funds rate was raised to 4.50% on January 31, 2006. A
future interest rate increase of 1.0% could result in increased annual interest expense of approximately $2.0 million.   

  59  

On November 1, 2005, we entered into an interest rate swap with JPMorgan Chase, N.A. effective December 28, 2005 whereby we fixed our base interest rate at 4.90% plus
contractual margin of 2.00% (6.90%) on $150.0 million of our variable rate term debt (based on the London interbank offered rate, or LIBO rate, plus a contractual margin) for three years. The
interest expense on the unhedged portion of the debt will fluctuate based on the LIBO rate plus the applicable contractual margin in accordance with the credit agreement. The market rate of interest
effective December 28, 2005 was 4.52% plus the contractual margin of 2% for a total interest rate of 6.52%. Interest expense on $150.0 million of indebtedness is recorded at the 6.90%
fixed rate set by the interest rate swap agreement. A future interest rate increase of 1.0% could result in increased annual interest expense on the unhedged portion of the debt of approximately
$0.5 million.   

           Foreign Currency Risk.       As a global company, we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business
operations. These risks include the translation of local currency balances of our foreign subsidiaries, intercompany balances between subsidiaries that operate in different functional currencies and
transactions with customers, suppliers and employees that are denominated in foreign currencies. Our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through our normal operating activities and,
where appropriate, to have these transactions denominated in United States dollars. For the six months ended January 31, 2006, approximately 56% of our total revenues and also 54% of our cost
of revenues and operating expenses were denominated in foreign currencies. The following table shows the approximate split of these foreign currency exposures by principal currency:   

For
fiscal 2005, approximately 58% of our total revenues and 55% of our cost of revenues and operating expenses were denominated in foreign currencies.   

          Foreign
currency transaction gains and losses are recognized in the results of operations based on the difference between the foreign exchange rates on the transaction date and on the
settlement date. There was a net foreign exchange gain of $0.3 million in the three months ended January 31, 2005 and a net foreign exchange loss of $0.3 million in the three
months ended January 31, 2006. There was a net foreign exchange gain of $1.2 million in the six months ended January 31, 2005 and a net foreign exchange loss of
$2.2 million in the six months ended January 31, 2006.These foreign currency exchange gains and losses are included in the statements of operations in "other income (expense)."   

   Item 4.    Controls and Procedures     

          The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that have been designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports
that it files or submits under the general rules and regulations promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:   

is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms; and
           is
accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.    

The
Company's disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives. The Company established a Disclosure Committee in
September 2004 that   

  60  

assists
the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer with the quarterly evaluation of the design and operation of disclosure controls and procedures and that is responsible for
accumulating potentially material information regarding its activities and considering the materiality of this information. The Disclosure Committee (or a subcommittee) is also responsible for making
recommendations regarding disclosure and communicating this information to the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
The Company's Disclosure Committee is comprised of a senior legal official, corporate controller, director of investor relations, chief information officer, Company senior director of internal audit,
treasurer and financial planning officer and certain other members of the Company's finance department.   

           CEO and CFO certifications.       Attached as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this quarterly report on Form 10-Q are
certifications by the Company's CEO and CFO. These certificates are required in accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Section 302 Certifications"). This
portion of the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q describes the results of the Company's controls evaluation referred to in the Section 302 Certifications.   

Evaluation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures.       The Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report on
Form 10-Q, as required by Rule 13a-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and found the controls to be effective.   

          There
have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our most recent completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably
likely to affect our internal control over financial reporting.   

  61  

Part II Other Information     

   Item 1.    Legal Proceedings     

          We and certain of our subsidiaries are party to certain labor, product liability and intellectual property infringement claims and litigation. With respect to
acquired companies, substantially all of such litigation and claims were commenced prior to acquisition. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5,     "Accounting for Contingencies"   , or SFAS 5, we had accrued $14.5 million as of January 31, 2006 for the litigation and related legal fees
where we believe a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. We believe we have good defenses in connection with many of these claims and intend to vigorously contest such claims or seek to reach
settlements to the extent appropriate.   

          On
February 27, 2004, Peavey Electronics Corporation, or Peavey, filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Lauderdale County, Mississippi against Baan U.S.A., Inc., or Baan
USA. The complaint includes claims that Baan USA breached its warranties and obligations under the software license and support agreement and the professional services agreement entered into by the
parties. In addition, the complaint includes claims of fraud, fraudulent misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation and breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing against Baan USA. These
claims are based on allegations by Peavey of defects and deficiencies in, and failed implementation of, Baan USA's software. Peavey's complaint asserts losses of $28.5 million, which Peavey
claims is the amount spent by Peavey on the software and implementation, including license and consulting fees, and seeks punitive damages, in an unspecified amount, interest and attorneys' fees. On
April 1, 2004, Baan USA filed a motion to dismiss Peavey's complaint, which the court granted in part, as well as an answer to the complaint claiming a number of defenses. On
September 13, 2005, the court entered judgment dismissing claims for fraud, fraudulent misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing and
money had and received. The court found that each of these claims is barred by the applicable statute of limitation. The parties participated in court ordered non-binding mediation on
October 10 and 11, 2005. A settlement was not reached during that mediation. We believe several of Peavey's remaining claims are also barred by the statute of limitations. In addition, we have
evidence that, in our view, suggests that there were no defects or deficiencies in the software and consulting services provided to Peavey from Baan USA which could have caused the damages alleged by
Peavey, and we believe that any such damages were caused by actions taken by Peavey to alter the Baan USA software. Accordingly, we believe Baan USA has meritorious defenses in connection with the
claims alleged by Peavey and intends to vigorously contest such claims. We have not recorded any reserves associated with this case.   

          In
February 2005 New York University, or NYU, filed a complaint against Epiphany, Inc. in the United States District Court in the Southern District of New York, and, the
complaint was served on Epiphany in May 2005, after discussions between the parties failed to resolve the matter. After its acquisition of Epiphany, SSA Global Technologies, Inc. was
added as a defendant in the lawsuit. The complaint alleges patent infringement of U.S. Patent Number 6,236,978. By its complaint, NYU seeks a permanent
injunction against acts of infringement, unspecified damages, attorneys' fees, interest and costs. Although we are still evaluating the claims alleged by NYU, we believe we have meritorious defenses
against such claims and demands and intend to vigorously contest them.   

          We
are and may from time to time in the future become subject to certain other legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business. These routine litigation matters
are settled or defended, depending on the circumstances of each claim. While any legal proceeding has elements of uncertainty, we do not believe, based on historical experience and current facts, that
the amount of any liability incurred in connection with these types of claims would have a material effect on our financial condition or on the results of our operations.   

  62  

Item 1A.        RISK FACTORS     

             An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other
information in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. The following risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones we face.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and results of operations. If any of the events or developments described
below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. In that case, the value of our common stock may decline.   

   Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Future Results     

              Our historical operating results are of limited use in evaluating our historical performance and future prospects because we used the
purchase method of accounting for all of our acquisitions, including the acquisitions we made during fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2006 acquisitions.    

Our
acquisitions make evaluating our business and our future financial prospects difficult. Our potential for future business success and operating profitability must be considered in
light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties typically encountered by companies that frequently acquire new businesses.   

          During
fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2006, we completed a number of acquisitions, consisting of the acquisitions of Infinium, Ironside, Baan, Elevon, EXE, Arzoon, Marcam, Boniva, Epiphany and
Provia. We refer to our acquisitions of Infinium, Ironside, Baan and Elevon collectively as the "fiscal 2003 acquisitions." We refer to our acquisitions of EXE, Arzoon and Marcam collectively as the
"fiscal 2004 acquisitions." We refer to our acquisitions of Boniva, Epiphany and Provia collectively as the "fiscal 2006 acquisitions." Together, we refer to these acquisitions as the "fiscal 2003,
2004 and 2006 acquisitions." We used the purchase method of accounting for each of these acquisitions. Therefore, the operating results of each of the acquired businesses for which we used the
purchase method of accounting are included in our financial statements only from the date of its acquisition and, as a result, our historical operating results may be of limited relevance in
evaluating the financial performance of our company as it now exists and may not be indicative of our future operating results. Our historical consolidated financial statements included herein may not
be indicative of our future operating results, financial performance or financial position. Approximately $409.5 million, or 64%, of our total revenues of $636.5 million for fiscal 2004
came from our fiscal 2003 and 2004 acquisitions. Approximately $100.7 million, or 14%, of our total revenues of $711.8 million for fiscal 2005 came from the fiscal 2004 acquisitions and
approximately $21.5 million, or 6%, of our total revenues of $365.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2006 came from the fiscal 2006 acquisitions.   

              Our strategy of supplementing our growth through selective acquisitions presents risks.    

          Part
of our growth strategy includes evaluating and selectively pursuing acquisitions. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to effectively integrate businesses that we
may acquire in the future. We expect to face significant challenges in consolidating functions and integrating procedures, personnel, product lines, technologies and operations in a timely and
efficient manner, and the integration process may require significant attention from management and devotion of resources. For example, in fiscal 2004 our operating expenses included
$16.8 million of acquisition integration and other transition costs principally attributable to Baan, including approximately $10.0 million in incremental auditor and consulting fees
from the compilation of records and audit of Baan's pre-acquisition financial results, which required substantial personnel resources and took nine months to complete. These amounts were
included in our general and administrative costs in fiscal 2004.   

          We
cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate acquisitions in the future on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, future acquisitions are accompanied by the risk that
the   

  63  

obligations
and liabilities of an acquired company may not be adequately reflected in the historical financial statements of such company and the risk that such historical financial statements may be
based on assumptions which are incorrect or inconsistent with our assumptions or approach to accounting policies.   

We may not be able to realize the anticipated cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements from combining acquired businesses and any businesses acquired in
the future with our operations and we may incur significant cash integration costs to achieve these cost savings.    

          Even
if we are able to integrate any businesses acquired in the future with our operations successfully, we cannot assure you that we will realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue
enhancements that we anticipate from such integration or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we currently expect or will expect. Realizing these benefits may be difficult
because historically most of the companies we have acquired have been in poor financial condition or even close to bankruptcy. Our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies or revenue
enhancements may be affected by the timing and efficiency with which we can consolidate operations, reduce overlapping personnel while avoiding labor disputes and integrate acquired technology with
our existing technology, all of which are difficult to predict. In addition, our cost savings may be reduced by unexpected costs in connection with our integration efforts or a slowdown in the
collection of accounts receivable, operating losses or costs associated with lawsuits brought against us related to acquired businesses. For example, the compilation of records and audit of Baan's
pre-acquisition financial results resulted in approximately $10.0 million in incremental auditor and consulting fees. These amounts were included in our general and administrative
costs in fiscal 2004.   

              If accounting interpretations relating to revenue recognition change or companies we acquire have applied such standards differently than we do or have not
applied them at all, our reported revenues could decline or we may incur the expense and risks associated with an audit or restatement of the acquired company's financial
statements.    

          Under
current accounting standards, the terms and conditions of our license agreements could result in deferred recognition of our license revenues or contract revenues.   

The
accounting profession continues to discuss certain provisions of relevant accounting literature with the objective of providing additional guidance on potential interpretations
related to software revenue recognition and so-called multiple element arrangements in which a single contract includes a software license, a maintenance services agreement and/or other
elements that are bundled together in a total offering to the customer. These discussions and the issuance of interpretations, once finalized, could lead to unanticipated changes in our current
revenue accounting practices, which could change the timing of revenue recognition. In addition, companies we acquire may have historically interpreted software revenue recognition rules differently
than we do or may not have been subject to generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States of America, as a result of reporting under local GAAP in a foreign country. If we
discover that companies we have acquired have interpreted and applied software revenue recognition rules differently than prescribed by U.S. GAAP, we could be required to devote significant management
resources, and incur the expense associated with an audit, restatement or other examination of the acquired companies' financial statements. In addition, our reputation may be harmed if such a
restatement is required.   

          In
connection with its audit of the Baan combined consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, Ernst   Young Accountants identified a material weakness
with respect to the Baan combined consolidated financial statements. Baan's original system of financial reporting was designed to comply with UK GAAP, consistent with the GAAP applied in the
financial statements of its former parent, and the records of its subsidiaries were kept in other local GAAP, and then consolidated into its former parent's financial statements. As a result, the Baan
historical financial information prior to our acquisition of Baan was not prepared in accordance with certain aspects of U.S. GAAP   

  64  

regarding
software revenue recognition principally related to multiple element arrangements that require deferral of revenues until delivery. Several instances were also found where revenues were not
recorded over the proper term as specified in the arrangements. The financial accounting reconstruction, compilation and audit were completed, at a cost to us of approximately $10.0 million, in
order to obtain an audit opinion as to Baan's compliance with U.S. GAAP. In response to the material weakness identified by Ernst   Young Accountants, which related to the
pre-acquisition period for Baan, we have also installed control processes to address future U.S. GAAP compliance with specific attributes covering multiple element arrangements, as well as
delivered and undelivered elements in such arrangements.   

              Our quarterly revenues, cash flows and results of operations are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially.    

Due
to the typical purchasing patterns of customers of enterprise software, revenues, cash flows and results of operations for companies in the software industry are volatile, difficult
to predict and often fluctuate from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations can materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We typically
close a significant number of software license transactions during the last two weeks of each fiscal quarter. Our license revenues in any quarter depend substantially upon the number and size of
contracts signed and our ability to recognize the associated revenues under our revenue recognition policy. While our forecast estimates may provide us with guidance in business planning and
budgeting, these forecast estimates are speculative and may not consistently correlate to actual revenues and cash flow in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time. If we do not accurately
forecast our contracting activity, we may improperly plan or budget, and our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.   

              Our future revenues are substantially dependent upon existing customers continuing to license our products and renew their maintenance agreements with
us.    

          We
depend on our existing customers for additional future revenues from ongoing maintenance, professional consulting services and licenses of other products. Our maintenance agreements
are generally renewable after twelve months or longer at the option of the customers and there are no mandatory renewal obligations or obligations to license additional software. Likewise, a change in
business conditions could alter current customer purchasing plans and they may not necessarily generate significant revenues and cash flow in future periods.   

              If we fail to continually improve our software products, effectively manage our product offerings, successfully migrate the technologies underlying our diverse
products into unified standards and introduce new products and service offerings, our competitive position could erode and our business may suffer.    

The
market for our software products is characterized by technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and
enhancements. The market for business application software has been and continues to be intensely competitive, which requires that we continually improve our existing products and create new products
while at the same time controlling our costs. For example, the successful implementation of our business plan will depend significantly upon the market success of our recently introduced software
products SSA ERP LN  and SSA ERP LX . In addition, as a result of our acquisitions, we have acquired many diverse brands and products with different underlying technology and
programming which require significant expense to improve and support on an ongoing basis. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to:   

converge
our product offerings and migrate the technology and programming underlying our diverse products into unified standards;
           continue
to enhance and expand our existing products and services;    
 
  65  

make
our products compatible with future and existing interfaces that achieve popularity within the enterprise application marketplace, including NT, Unix and IBM iSeries;
           continue
to successfully integrate third-party products, as in our business intelligence product area;
           enter
new markets; and
           develop
and introduce new products and new services that satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, keep pace with technological developments, provide
customer value and are accepted in the market.    

We
cannot assure you that we will be successful in anticipating and developing product enhancements or new products and services to adequately address changing technologies and customer
requirements. Any such products, solutions or services may not be successful in the marketplace or may not generate expected revenues or cash flow.   

              We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years.    

          Developing
and localizing software is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. In fiscal 2004 and 2005, our research and development
expenses were $95.2 million and $102.8 million, respectively, or approximately 15% and 14% of our total revenues in fiscal 2004 and 2005, respectively. In the six months ended
January 31, 2005 and 2006, our research and development expenses were $49.8 million and $55.6 million, respectively, or approximately 14% of our total revenue in the six months
ended January 31, 2005 and 15% in the six months ended January 31, 2006. Our future plans include significant investments in software research and development and related product
opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, future revenues
from these investments are not fully predictable.   

              Our management and auditors identified four significant deficiencies in our internal controls that, in aggregate, constituted a material weakness in the design
and operation of our internal controls as of July 31, 2004, which, if not properly remediated could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future
periods.    

          Our
independent auditors, Grant Thornton LLP, issued a letter to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, or the Board, in which they identified certain matters that they consider
to constitute a material weakness in the design and operation of our internal controls as of July 31, 2004. A material weakness is defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States) as a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial
statements will not be prevented or detected. A significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a
misstatement of the financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. A control deficiency exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow
management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis.   

          Our
auditors based their material weakness determination on four identified significant deficiencies:   

Our
sales representatives did not provide to our accounting personnel all contract documentation in connection with several customer arrangements in Japan entered into
during fiscal 2001, 2002 and 2003 which led to the incorrect recording of revenue in those periods. The impact on our statement of operations was a reduction of license fees revenues of
$0.7 million in    
 
  66  

fiscal
2001, $1.1 million in fiscal 2002 and $0.8 million in fiscal 2003, a decrease in income before income taxes of $0.7 million in fiscal 2001 and $1.1 million in fiscal
2002, and an increase in income before income taxes of $0.4 million in fiscal 2003.   

In
connection with three customer arrangements in EMEA, revenues were recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 even though software was not shipped until after quarter
end. The impact on our statement of operations was a reduction of license fees revenues and income before income taxes of approximately $0.4 million for fiscal 2004.
           In
January 2005, we became aware that sales and finance employees in Mexico had recorded two software license transactions in fiscal 2004 even though we believe that
those employees knew that the contracts did not meet revenue recognition requirements. These employees subsequently falsely represented to, and withheld information from, both our corporate management
and our auditors as to whether the transactions met revenue recognition requirements. This included knowledge of the falsification of customer signatures in one instance and misrepresentation of facts
and circumstances in another instance indicating the fees from the arrangement were fixed and determinable upon contract signing. The impact on our statement of operations was a reduction of license
fees revenues of $1.3 million and a reduction of income before income taxes of $0.7 million for fiscal 2004. The implicated sales and finance employees have resigned.
           In
January 2005, we also became aware that finance personnel in Mexico had not properly evaluated available facts and circumstances associated with the entire Mexican
receivable portfolio at the time the financial statements were prepared for fiscal 2004 and the three months ended October 31, 2004. The impact on our statement of operations was a reduction of
income before income taxes of $1.2 million in fiscal 2004 and $0.2 million in the three months ended October 31, 2004. The implicated finance personnel have resigned.    

In
light of the significant deficiencies noted in Japan and Mexico and the aggregation of significant deficiencies constituting a material weakness, we have instituted control
improvements that we believe reduce the likelihood of similar revenue recognition errors to less than remote or to an inconsequential amount in the specific areas of the world that are judged to be
most vulnerable. In addition, we have added further controls over contract review associated with revenue recognition and allowance for doubtful accounts judgments. These control improvements include:   

For
software license transactions, cash payment of at least 20% will be required in areas deemed vulnerable to provide additional evidence that a legally binding,
non-cancelable arrangement has been executed with the customer and that the contract terms are complete.
           Members
of local and regional management who are not directly involved in contract negotiation will independently confirm the completeness of legal arrangements for
contracts of a certain size with customers in areas deemed vulnerable.
           Independent
review of revenue recognition for software license agreements of $75,000 or greater in Latin America will be performed by qualified personnel in our North
American accounting department.
           Independent
review of revenue recognition for larger software license agreements ($500,000 or greater in North America, EMEA and Japan, and $250,000 or more in
Asia-Pacific and Latin America) and transactions of a non-routine nature in each geographic region will be performed by qualified personnel in our corporate headquarters. All
software license agreements are reviewed by qualified accounting personnel in each geographic region for appropriate revenue recognition.    
 
  67  

Enhancement
of our internal policies to clarify that all receivables (billed and unbilled) will be evaluated quarterly in our determination of the allowance for doubtful
accounts.
           Independent
reviews of the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts for each geographic region will be performed by qualified personnel in our corporate headquarters.    

We
implemented these corrective actions in February 2005. If the remedial policies and procedures we have implemented are insufficient to address the four significant deficiencies
that, in aggregate, constituted a material weakness as of July 31, 2004, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls are discovered in the future,
we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations, our financial statements may contain material misstatements and our operating results may be harmed. Any such failure could also adversely affect
the results of the periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that will be required when the
SEC's rules under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will become applicable to us beginning with the required filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for
fiscal 2006 in October 2006. External costs associated with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 readiness were $1.2 million in fiscal 2004 and $2.6 million in fiscal 2005. For
fiscal 2006, we estimate external costs associated with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance of approximately $2.0 million. Internal control deficiencies could also cause investors to
lose confidence in our reported financial information. During the remainder of fiscal 2005 and the six months ended January 31, 2006, we did not identify any further material weaknesses in
internal controls. Although we believe we have addressed our material weakness in internal controls with the remedial measures we have implemented, we cannot assure you that the measures we have taken
to date or any future measures will remediate the material weakness identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain
adequate internal controls over financial reporting.   

              As our software offerings increase in number, scope and complexity, our need to avoid any undetected errors and to correct any identified errors may increase our
costs, slow the introduction of new products and we may become subject to warranty or product liability claims which could be costly to resolve and result in negative
publicity.    

          Although
we test each of our new products and product enhancement releases and evaluate and test the products we obtain through acquisitions before introducing them to the market, we
cannot assure you that significant errors will not be found in existing or future releases of our software products, with the possible result that significant resources and expenditures may be
required in order to correct such errors or otherwise satisfy customer demands. In addition, defects in our products or difficulty integrating our products with our customers' systems could result in
delayed or lost revenues, warranty or other claims against us by customers or third parties, adverse customer reaction and negative publicity about us or our products and services or reduced
acceptance of our products and services in the marketplace, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For example,
one of our customers has brought a lawsuit alleging, among other things, that defects and deficiencies in, and failed implementation of, Baan's software has caused and continues to cause it
significant losses.   

              Errors, defects or other performance problems of our products could result in harm or damage to our customers and expose us to liability, which may adversely
affect our business and operating results.      

          Because our customers may use our products for mission-critical applications, errors, defects or other performance problems may cause financial or other damages
to our customers and result in claims for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such errors, defects or other performance problems. The terms of our contracts with our
customers are generally designed to limit our liability for errors, defects or other performance problems and damages relating to such errors, defects or other performance problems, but these
provisions may not be enforced by a court or   

  68  

otherwise
effectively protect us from legal claims. Our liability insurance may not be adequate to cover all of the costs resulting from these legal claims. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our
current liability insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion against us of one or
more large claims that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or
co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, even if we succeed in the
litigation, we are likely to incur additional costs and our management's attention might be diverted from our normal operations.   

              We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which may cause us to incur significant costs in litigation and/or an erosion in the value of our
brands and products.    

          We
rely on a combination of the protections provided by applicable trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws, license and non-disclosure agreements and technical
measures to establish and protect our rights in our products. We cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are
substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. While our policies dictate that all independent contractors sign non-disclosure agreements with respect to our products, we can not
assure you this protection will be adequate. Despite our efforts, it may be possible for third parties to copy certain portions of our products or reverse-engineer or otherwise obtain and use
information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Accordingly, we
cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our proprietary software against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position.   

          When
we license our software, we are typically subject to a representation that our software does not infringe on any proprietary rights of third parties. Although we do not believe that
we are infringing any proprietary rights of others, third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We expect that our software
products will increasingly be subject to such claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows, as we expand our products into new industry segments and as the
functionality of products overlap. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays, subject our products to an injunction,
require a complete or partial re-design of the relevant product or require us to enter into royalty or licensing
agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all.   

              Our revenues, cash flows and results of operations may be reduced if we need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms on our products and services to meet
competitive pressures in our industry.      

          The market for enterprise software applications has been and continues to be intensely competitive. We compete with a variety of software vendors, some of whom
are active across the entire range of ERP products and services and others who are only active in niche segments, including vendors in the manufacturing, customer relationship management, corporate
performance management, product lifecycle management, supplier relationship and supply chain management application market segments, and providers of human resource, financial management and ERP
software products. In addition, companies that have historically focused primarily on selling their software products to businesses that are either smaller or larger than those which we primarily
target have increasingly begun to target mid-market companies, which we define as companies with revenues ranging from $100.0 million to $1.0 billion. Some of these companies
may develop (or may have already developed) an overall concept or individual product offering which may be perceived to be as good as or better than our product offerings. Some of our competitors have
advantages over us due to their significant worldwide presence, longer operating and product development history, larger installed customer base,   

  69  

and
substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. In addition, we believe that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidation. Accordingly, it is likely that new
competitors or alliances among competitors will emerge and may rapidly move to gain significant market share.   

          In
response to competition and general adverse economic conditions, we have been required in the past, and may be required in the future, to furnish additional discounts to customers,
otherwise modify our pricing practices or offer more favorable payment terms or more favorable contractual implementation terms. These developments have and may increasingly negatively impact our
revenues, cash flows and results of operations.   

              Downturns in general economic and market conditions and reductions in IT budgets cause decreases in demand for our software and related services which could
negatively affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations.    

          Our
revenues, cash flows and results of operations depend on the overall demand for our products, software and related services. Economic downturns in one or more of the countries in
which we do business have resulted in reductions in the information technology, or IT, budgets for some portion of our customers. At times, such reductions have resulted in delays or cancellations of
customer purchases.
Future delays or cancellations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Prolonged economic slowdowns may result in customers
requiring us to renegotiate existing contracts on less advantageous terms than those currently in place or default on payments due on existing contracts. In particular, our business, financial
position, results of operations and cash flows may be significantly adversely affected by a prolonged economic slowdown in the North American market or the EMEA market because we derive a substantial
portion of our revenues from software licenses and services in those markets.   

              We are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business.    

Our
acquisitions, in particular the acquisition of Baan, have increased the size and scope of our international operations. For fiscal 2004 and 2005, approximately 60% and 59%,
respectively, of our total revenues were derived from sources outside the United States. For the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, approximately 60% and 56%, respectively, of our
total revenues were derived from sources outside the United States. We currently have operations throughout EMEA, Asia, Latin America, Australia and Canada. Accordingly, our business is subject to the
political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries.   

These
risks include, but are not limited to:   

difficulty
in enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems;
           foreign
customers may have longer payment cycles;
           fluctuations
in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign
markets where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency;
           required
compliance with a variety of software localization requirements, tax or other matters;
           terrorist
acts and natural disasters; and
           changes
in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate and, in the latter case, particularly in emerging markets.    

Our
business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other regulatory, economic, social and political risks inherent in international
business. We cannot   

  70  

assure
you that we will be able to effectively manage these risks or that they will not have a material adverse effect on our international business or on our business as a whole.   

          In
particular, we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries where we operate. Since our consolidated financial statements are denominated in United
States dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the United States dollar and local currencies and, to the extent applicable, between local currencies and the currencies in which revenues
are generated and expenses are incurred, have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For fiscal 2005, approximately 58% of
our total revenues and 55% of our total cost of revenues and operating expenses were denominated in foreign currencies. For fiscal 2004, approximately 60% of our total revenues and 54% of our total
cost of revenues and operating expenses were denominated in foreign currencies. For the six months ended January 31, 2005 and 2006, approximately 56% of our total revenues and 54% of our cost
of revenues and operating expenses were denominated in foreign currencies. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk."   

              Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key employees and attract and retain qualified employees in a competitive labor
market.    

          We
are dependent on the services of Michael Greenough, our Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management team to remain competitive in our industry. The loss of
Michael Greenough or any other member of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on us.   

          Due
to the competitive employment nature of the software industry, there is a risk that we will not be able to retain or replace these key employees. Most of our current key employees
are subject to employment agreements, option agreements or conditions that contain post employment non-competition provisions. However, enforcement of restrictions on subsequent employment
may not be enforced by courts of law. In addition, these agreements permit the employees to terminate their employment on relatively short notice.   

          In
addition, we believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. If we do
not attract, train, retain and effectively manage our employees, our costs may increase, development and sales efforts may be hurt and our customer service may be degraded. Due to the competitive
employment nature of the software industry, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to attract and retain the personnel we require to conduct our operations successfully. Use of
non-compete agreements by some of our competitors may further decrease the pool of available management, sales and technical personnel.   

              Some of our non-U.S. employees are represented by workers' councils or are employed subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than
the laws of the United States.    

          Some
of our employees outside the United States are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other rights to employees than the laws of the United
States. Such favorable employment rights require us to expend greater time and expense in making changes to employees' terms of employment or making staff reductions. For example, as of
January 31, 2006, we had 629 employees in Germany and the Netherlands, or approximately 17% of our total workforce, represented by workers' councils which must approve any changes in conditions
of employment, including salaries and benefits. Of these employees, 273 were engaged in research and development activities, 113 in sales and marketing activities, 172 in customer support and services
activities and 71 in general and administrative activities. While we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, a significant dispute with our employees could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.   

  71  

Our indebtedness and future indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, limit our cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our
business, limit our operating flexibility and adversely affect the price of our common stock.    

As
of January 31, 2006, we had approximately $216.4 million of indebtedness outstanding, before the offset for unamortized financing fees, while our cash and cash
equivalents totaled $136.0 million on that date.   

          Our
indebtedness could have significant consequences, including the following:   

make
it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial and payment obligations, or to refinance maturing indebtedness;
           make
us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy or our business;
           limit
our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;
           consume
a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service costs, which would reduce the funds available to us for our operations;
           limit
our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry, business and markets; and
           place
us at a competitive disadvantage to the extent we are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors.    

We
may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future to fund our continued operations or future acquisitions. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the
substantial leverage risks described above would increase.   

   Risks Related to Our Common Stock     

              An active trading market for our common stock may not be sufficiently developed.    

          Prior
to our initial public offering in May 2005, there was no public market for our common stock. An active trading market may not be sufficiently developed or sustained. The
lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair
market value of your shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of capital stock and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by
using our shares as consideration.   

              Affiliates of Cerberus Capital Management, L.P., or Cerberus, and General Atlantic LLC, or General Atlantic, control us and may have conflicts of interest with
other stockholders in the future.    

          As
of January 31, 2006, Cerberus and General Atlantic, or our controlling stockholders, collectively own 85.0% of our common stock. As a result, our controlling stockholders
continue to be able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate
transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. Our controlling
stockholders also have sufficient voting power to amend our organization documents. We cannot assure you that the interests of our controlling stockholders will coincide with the interests of other
holders of our common stock. For example, our controlling stockholders could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or sell revenue-generating assets. Additionally,
our controlling stockholders are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us.
Our controlling stockholders may also pursue   

  72  

acquisition
opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisitions opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our controlling stockholders continue to
own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions, including potential mergers or
acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions.   

              We are a controlled company within the meaning of Nasdaq rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance
requirements.    

          Cerberus
and General Atlantic control a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the rules governing companies with stock
quoted on The Nasdaq National Market. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a controlled company and is exempt
from certain corporate governance requirements, including requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) compensation of officers be
determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (3) director
nominees be selected or recommended for selection by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Since the consummation of our
initial public offering we have utilized these exemptions. Our Board does not have a majority of independent directors, and our nominating and compensation committees do not consist entirely of
independent directors. Accordingly, the procedures for approving significant corporate decisions can be determined by directors who have a direct or indirect interest in the matters and you will not
have the same protections afforded to stockholders of other companies with stock quoted on The Nasdaq National Market.   

              Certain provisions of our charter documents and agreements and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium
price.    

          Our
amended and restated certificate of incorporation includes provisions that:   

permit
us to issue preferred stock in one or more series and, with respect to each series, fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the
series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of such series, and the preferences and other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions, of the shares of the series;
and
           limit
stockholders' ability to call special meetings.    

These
provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price.   

In
addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us
and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. In addition, certain of our employment agreements and incentive plans provide for vesting of stock options and/or payments to be made to the
employees thereunder if their employment is terminated in connection with a change of control, which could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price.   

              The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.    

Volatility
in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares. The market price of our common
stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons which include:   

our
quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;
           the
public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;    
 
  73  

changes
in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other software companies;
           changes
in general conditions in the U.S. and global economy, financial markets or software industry, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, natural
disasters or responses to such events;
           sales
of common stock by our controlling stockholders, directors and executive officers; and
           the
other factors described in these "Risk Factors."    

In
addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities
issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common stock
could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price.   

If a substantial number of shares become available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could
decline.    

          We
had 69,358,234 shares of common stock outstanding as of January 31, 2006, of which 58,939,776 shares, or 85.0%, were held by our controlling stockholders. If the controlling
stockholders decide to sell all or a substantial portion of their shares or if other sales of a substantial amount of our common stock are affected in the public market, or there is a perception in
the public market of such sales, this could decrease the market price of our common stock significantly. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital
through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities.   

              We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, and the instruments governing our indebtedness contains various covenants
limiting our ability to pay dividends.    

          It
is our present intention not to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Our Board may, at its discretion, modify or repeal our dividend policy. Future dividends,
if any, with respect to shares of our common stock will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, provisions of
applicable law and other factors that our Board may deem relevant. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will pay dividends in the future or at all.   

          Instruments
governing our indebtedness contain covenants which place limitations on the amount of dividends we may pay.   

          In
addition, under Delaware law, our Board may declare dividends only to the extent of our surplus (which is defined as total assets at fair market value minus total liabilities, minus
statutory capital), or if there is no surplus, out of our net profits for the then current and/or immediately preceding fiscal years.   

   Item 2.    Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.     

          There have been no unregistered sales of equity securities in the quarterly period ended January 31, 2006.   

  74  

Item 6.    Exhibits.     

Exhibit Index            

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Description      

10.1  

General Release and Additional Terms by and between SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and John Walles dated November 4, 2005. (A)  

10.2  

Form of Amendment to Stock Option Agreement. (B)  

10.3  

Form of SSA Global Fiscal 2006 Executive Bonus Plan. (B)  

31.1*  

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2*  

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32*  

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

*    Filed
herewith.
      (A)    Previously
filed on November 4, 2005 as an exhibit to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K.
      (B)    Previously
filed on December 20, 2005 as an exhibit to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K.    
  75  

SIGNATURES            

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, The Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned
thereunto duly authorized.   

SSA GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC.   

Date: March 15, 2006  
     
  By:  
     
  /s/    MICHAEL GREENOUGH            Name: Michael Greenough 
Title: Chairman of the Board, President and 
          Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the undersigned, in his capacity as the principal financial officer of the Registrant.   

Date: March 15, 2006  
     
  By:  
     
  /s/    STEPHEN P. EARHART            Name: Stephen P. Earhart 
Title: Executive Vice President and Chief 
          Financial Officer  

76  

Exhibit Index            

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Description    

10.1  

General Release and Additional Terms by and between SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and John Walles dated November 4, 2005(A)  

10.2  

Form of Amendment to Stock Option Agreement.(B)  

10.3  

Form of SSA Global Fiscal 2006 Executive Bonus Plan.(B)  

31.1  
   *  
   
Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2  
   *  
   
Certification of the Chief Financial Officer purrsuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32*  

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

*    Filed
herewith.
      (A)    Previously
filed on November 4, 2005 as an exhibit to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K.
      (B)    Previously
filed on December 20, 2005 as an exhibit to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K.    

QuickLinks    
  TABLE OF CONTENTS   

PART I FINANCIAL INFORMATION   
  Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements   
 
  SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiaries CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions) (unaudited)   

SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiaries CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)   
 
  SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiaries CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) (unaudited)   
 
  SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and Subsidiaries NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) January 31, 2006 and July 31, 2005   
 
  CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   
 
  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
 
  Exhibit Index   

SIGNATURES   
 
  Exhibit Index   

<EX-31.1>
 2
 a2168345zex-31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

I,
Michael Greenough, the CEO of SSA Global Technologies, Inc. (the "Registrant"), certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of the Registrant;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
Registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the Registrant and have:

a)    designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
      b)    [omitted]
      c)    evaluated
the effectiveness of the Registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d)    disclosed
in this report any change in the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
Registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant's auditors and the
audit committee of the Registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)    all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
Registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b)    any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting.    

Dated: March 15, 2006  

By:  
   
/s/    MICHAEL GREENOUGH            Name: Michael Greenough 
Title:  Chairman of the Board, 
    President and Chief Executive 
    Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 3
 a2168345zex-31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

I,
Stephen P. Earhart, the CFO of SSA Global Technologies, Inc. (the "Registrant"), certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of the Registrant;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
Registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the Registrant and have:

a)    designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
      b)    [omitted]
      c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the Registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
Registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant's auditors and the
audit committee of the Registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)    all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
Registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b)    any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting.    

Dated: March 15, 2006  

By:  
   
/s/    STEPHEN P. EARHART            Name: Stephen P. Earhart 
Title:  Executive Vice President and 
                 Chief Financial Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 4
 a2168345zex-32.htm
 EXHIBIT 32

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32            

SSA GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC.   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

  United
States Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F. Street, N.E. 
Washington, D.C. 20549   

  Ladies
and Gentlemen:   

          The
certification set forth below is being submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with SSA Global Technologies, Inc.'s quarterly report on
Form 10-Q for the three months ended January 31, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report") solely for the purpose of
complying with Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code. This certification is not deemed to be filed pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and does not
constitute a part of the quarterly report on Form 10-Q (the Report) accompanying this letter.   

Michael
Greenough, the Chief Executive Officer of SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and Stephen P. Earhart, the Chief Financial Officer of SSA Global Technologies, Inc. each
certifies that:   

1.    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934; and
      2.    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of SSA Global Technologies, Inc.    

Date: March 15, 2006  

/s/    MICHAEL GREENOUGH            Name: Michael Greenough 
            Chief Executive Officer  

Date: March 15, 2006  

/s/    STEPHEN P. EARHART            Name: Stephen P. Earhart 
            Chief Financial Officer  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and will be retained by SSA Global Technologies, Inc. and
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32   
 
  SSA GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC. CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32>

