<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_99250_0000950134-06-006401_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>837293</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>191743</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>389194</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>65</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-006401.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331154926
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-006401
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000099250
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION [4922]
		IRS NUMBER:				741079400
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07584
		FILM NUMBER:		06728774

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2800 POST OAK BLVD
		STREET 2:		PO BOX 1396
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77251
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7132152000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2800 POST OAK BLVD
		STREET 2:		PO BOX 1396
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77251

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 DDOUesn18tMsg+j3S6V6xiXdZL1RMf+8zM+AtpIJJ7ShpVjk0PLhI3Ri4t8oTnif
 RFbjJwZ6x7S94rUa7j1HIw==

 0000950134-06-006401.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 d34564e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 

OR 

For the transition period from    to     

Commission File Number 1-7584 

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION  

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: 

None 

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: 

None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act    Yes       No     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or   Section 15(d)   of the Exchange Act.    Yes       No     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or   15(d)   of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 
  Yes       No     

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this   Form 10-K  .     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 

Large accelerated filer     

Accelerated filer     

Non-accelerated filer      

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act). 
  Yes       No     

The number of shares of Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, outstanding at January 31,
2006 was 100. 

The registrant meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form
10-K and is therefore filing this   Form 10-K   with the reduced disclosure format. 

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 
FORM 10-K 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAGE  

PART 1   

Item 1. 

Business   

3 

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors   

8 

Item 2. 

Properties   

16 

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings   

16 

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders (Omitted)   

17 

PART II   

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities   

17 

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data (Omitted)   

17 

Item 7. 

Management s Narrative Analysis of Results of Operations   

17 

Item 7A. 

Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

25 

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

26 

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

78 

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures   

78 

Item 9B. 

Other Information   

79 

PART III   

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant (Omitted)  

80 

Item 11.

Executive Compensation (Omitted)  

80 

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management (Omitted)  

80 

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions (Omitted)  

80 

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

80 

PART IV   

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  

81 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
     Power of Attorney with Certified Resolution    
     Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906    

2

Table of Contents   

PART I 

ITEM 1. Business. 

In this report, Transco (which includes Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation and unless
the context otherwise requires, all of our subsidiaries) is at times referred to in the first
person as  we,   us  or  our. 

GENERAL 

Transco is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC (WGP). WGP is a
wholly-owned subsidiary of The Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams). For 2005 Williams is a
reporting entity under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Transco is not an accelerated filer and
therefore not required in 2005 to report under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

We are an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns a natural gas pipeline system
extending from Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and the Gulf of Mexico through the states of Alabama,
Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania and New Jersey to the New
York City metropolitan area. We also hold a minority interest in Cardinal Pipeline Company, LLC, an
intrastate natural gas pipeline located in North Carolina. Our principal business is the interstate
transportation of natural gas, which is regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(FERC).

As of December 31, 2005, we had 1,178 full time employees.

At December 31, 2005, our system had a mainline delivery capacity of approximately 4.7
MMdt 1  of gas per day from production areas to our primary markets. Using our Leidy Line
and market-area storage and transportation capacity, we can deliver an additional 3.5 MMdt of gas
per day for a system-wide delivery capacity total of approximately 8.2 MMdt of gas per day. The
system is comprised of approximately 10,500 miles of mainline and branch transmission pipelines, 44
compressor stations, five underground storage fields and two liquefied natural gas (LNG) storage
facilities. Compression facilities at sea level rated capacity total approximately 1.5 million
horsepower.

We have natural gas storage capacity in five underground storage fields located on or near our
pipeline system and/or market areas and we operate three of these storage fields. We also have
storage capacity in a LNG storage facility that we operate. The total usable gas storage capacity
available to us and our customers in such underground storage fields and LNG storage facility and
through storage service contracts is approximately 216 Bcf of gas. In addition, through
wholly-owned subsidiaries we operate and own a 35 percent interest in Pine Needle LNG Company, LLC,
a LNG storage facility with 4 Bcf of storage capacity. Storage capacity permits our customers to
inject gas into storage during the summer and off-peak periods for delivery during peak winter
demand periods.

1  
       
     As used in this report, the term  Mcf  means
thousand cubic feet, the term  MMcf  means million cubic feet, the term  Bcf 
means billion cubic feet, the term  Tcf  means trillion cubic feet, the term
 Mcf/d  means thousand cubic feet per day, the term  MMcf/d  means million
cubic feet per day, the term  Bcf/d  means billion cubic feet per day, the term
 MMBtu  means million British Thermal Units, the term  TBtu  means trillion
British Thermal Units, the term  dt  means dekatherm, the term
 Mdt  means thousand dekatherms, the term  Mdt/d  means
thousand dekatherms per day and the   term  MMdt  means
million dekatherms. 

3

Table of Contents   

Our gas pipeline facilities are generally owned in fee. However, a substantial portion of such
facilities are constructed and maintained pursuant to rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses or
consents on and across real property owned by others. Compressor stations, with appurtenant
facilities, are located in whole or in part either on lands owned or on sites held under leases or
permits issued or approved by public authorities. The storage facilities are either owned or
contracted for under long-term leases or easements.

Through an agency agreement, one of our affiliates, Williams Power Company (WPC), manages our
jurisdictional merchant gas sales.

Beginning in May 1995, Williams Field Services Company (WFS), an affiliated company, operated
our production area facilities pursuant to the terms of an operating agreement. In response to FERC
Order No. 2004, we terminated the operating agreement and effective June 1, 2004, we resumed
operating these facilities. Since February 1996, we have filed applications with the FERC seeking
authorization to abandon certain facilities located onshore and offshore in Texas, Louisiana and
Mississippi by conveyance to Williams Gas Processing   Gulf Coast Company (Gas Processing), an
affiliated company. (For a discussion of five of the applications, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   3. Contingent
Liabilities and Commitments   Rate and Regulatory Matters. )

MARKETS AND TRANSPORTATION 

Our natural gas pipeline system serves customers in Texas and eleven southeast and Atlantic
seaboard states including major metropolitan areas in Georgia, North Carolina, New York, New Jersey
and Pennsylvania.

Our major customers are public utilities and municipalities that provide service to
residential, commercial, industrial and electric generation end users. Shippers on our pipeline
system include public utilities, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct industrial users,
electrical generators, gas marketers and producers. Our two largest customers in 2005 were Public
Service Enterprise Group and Piedmont Natural Gas Company, which accounted for approximately 9.5%
and 8.2%, respectively, of our total operating revenues. Our firm transportation agreements are
generally long-term agreements with various expiration dates and account for the major portion of
our business. Additionally, we offer interruptible transportation services under shorter-term
agreements.

Our total system deliveries for the years 2005, 2004 and 2003 are shown below.

4

Table of Contents   

Our total market-area deliveries for 2005 increased 8.7 TBtu (0.5%) when compared to
2004. The higher deliveries are primarily the result of increased reliance on market-area
interconnects resulting from hurricanes in 2005 that affected the Gulf of Mexico producing region.
Our production area deliveries decreased 39.3 TBtu (12.4%) when compared to 2004. This is primarily
due to decreased requests for deliveries to production-area interconnects and the effect of the
hurricanes.

Our facilities are divided into eight rate zones. Five are located in the production area and
three are located in the market area. Long-haul transportation is gas that is received in one of
the production-area zones and delivered in a market-area zone. Market-area transportation is gas
that is both received and delivered within market-area zones. Production-area transportation is gas
that is both received and delivered within production-area zones.

PIPELINE PROJECTS 

Project in Service  The Central New Jersey Expansion Project, an expansion of our existing
natural gas transmission system in Zone 6 from the Station 210 pooling point to a new delivery
point on our Trenton-Woodbury Line, was placed into service on November 1, 2005. The project adds
105,000 dekatherms per day (dt/d) of new firm transportation capacity, which has been fully
subscribed by one shipper for a twenty-year primary term. The project facilities include
approximately 3.8 miles of pipeline loop. The estimated capital cost of the project is
approximately $16 million.

Leidy to Long Island Expansion Project  The Leidy to Long Island Expansion Project will involve
an expansion of our existing natural gas transmission system in Zone 6 from the Leidy Hub in
Pennsylvania to Long Island, New York. The project will provide 100,000 dt/d of incremental firm
transportation capacity, which has been fully subscribed by one shipper for a twenty-year primary
term. The project facilities will include pipeline looping in Pennsylvania and pipeline looping,
uprating and replacement and a natural gas compressor facility in New Jersey. The estimated capital
cost of the project is approximately $121 million. We expect that over three-quarters of the
project expenditures will occur in 2007. We filed an application for FERC approval of the project
in December 2005. The target in-service date for the project is November 1, 2007.

Potomac Expansion Project  We held an  open season  from July 19 through August 17, 2005 to
receive requests from potential shippers for new firm transportation capacity to be made available
on the Transco pipeline system from receipt points in North Carolina to delivery points in the
greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area under our proposed Potomac Expansion Project. As a
result of the open season, the expansion is being designed to create 165,000 dt/d of incremental
firm transportation capacity, which has been fully subscribed by shippers under long-term firm
arrangements. The estimated capital cost of the project is approximately $73 million. We filed a
request for pre-filing review with the FERC on November 10, 2005. The FERC granted the request on
November 17, 2005.We plan to file a certificate application for FERC approval of the project during
the third quarter of 2006. The target in-service date for the project is November 1, 2007.

5

Table of Contents   

Sentinel Expansion Project  We held an open season from October 31, 2005 through December 2,
2005 to receive requests from potential shippers for new firm transportation capacity to be made
available on
the Transco pipeline system under our proposed Sentinel Expansion Project. During the open
season we received requests for a total of 256,000 dt/d of incremental firm transportation capacity
from the Leidy Hub in Clinton County, Pennsylvania and/or the Pleasant Valley Interconnection with
Cove Point LNG, LP in Fairfax County, Virginia to various delivery points requested by the
shippers. We are evaluating the facilities required to support such requested capacity. The final
project size, location of facilities and capital cost will depend on the outcome of that evaluation
and the level of firm market commitment confirmed with the requesting parties. The proposed
in-service date for the project is November 1, 2008.

REGULATORY MATTERS 

Our transportation rates are established through the FERC ratemaking process. Key determinants
in the ratemaking process are (1) costs of providing service, including depreciation expense, (2)
allowed rate of return, including the equity component of the capital structure and related income
taxes and (3) volume throughput assumptions. The allowed rate of return is determined in each rate
case. Rate design and the allocation of costs between the demand and commodity rates also impact
profitability. As a result of these proceedings, certain revenues previously collected may be
subject to refund. We record estimates of rate refund liabilities considering outcomes of our
regulatory proceedings, advice of counsel and estimated total exposure, as discounted and risk
weighted, as well as collection and other risks.

Since September 1, 1992, we have designed our rates using the straight fixed-variable (SFV)
method of rate design. Under the SFV method of rate design, substantially all fixed costs,
including return on equity and income taxes, are included in a demand charge to customers and all
variable costs are recovered through a commodity charge to customers. While the use of SFV rate
design limits our opportunity to earn incremental revenues through increased throughput, it also
limits our risk associated with fluctuations in throughput.

For a discussion of additional regulatory matters, see  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   3. Contingent Liabilities and
Commitments   Rate and Regulatory Matters. 

SALES SERVICE 

As discussed above, WPC manages our jurisdictional merchant gas sales. Most of these sales
were previously made through a Firm Sales (FS) program which gave customers the option to purchase
daily quantities of gas from us at market-responsive prices in exchange for a demand charge
payment. Pursuant to the terms of an agreement with the FERC which resolved a prior investigation,
we terminated our remaining FS agreements effective April 1, 2005. Through an agency agreement, WPC
is still authorized to make gas sales on our behalf in order to manage our remaining gas purchase
obligations. WPC receives all margins associated with jurisdictional merchant gas sales business
and, as our agent, assumes all market and credit risk associated with our jurisdictional merchant
gas sales. Consequently, our merchant gas sales service has no impact on our operating income and,
therefore, the termination of the FS agreements in April 2005, has no impact on our operating
income.

6

Table of Contents   

Our gas sales volumes managed by WPC for the years 2005, 2004 and 2003 are shown below.

TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES 

We engage in transactions with Williams and other Williams subsidiaries. See  Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, 3. Contingent Liabilities and Commitments and 8.
Transactions with Major Customers and Affiliates. 

REGULATION 

Interstate gas pipeline operations  Our interstate transmission and storage activities are
subject to regulation by the FERC under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and under the Natural Gas
Policy Act of 1978 (NGPA), and, as such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural
gas in interstate commerce, the extension, enlargement or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities,
and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. We hold certificates of public
convenience and necessity issued by the FERC authorizing ownership and operation of pipelines,
facilities and properties under the NGA. We are also subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act
of 1968, as amended by Title I of the Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, and   the Pipeline Safety
Improvement Act of 2002 which regulate safety requirements in the design, construction, operation
and maintenance of interstate gas transmission facilities.

Intrastate gas pipeline operations  Cardinal Pipeline Company, LLC, a North Carolina natural
gas pipeline company, is subject to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina Utilities Commission.
Through wholly-owned subsidiaries, we operate and own a 45 percent interest in Cardinal Pipeline.

Environmental  We are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act and federal, state and
local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality control. Management believes that,
capital expenditures and operation and maintenance expenses required to meet applicable
environmental standards and regulations are generally recoverable in rates. For these reasons,
management believes that compliance with applicable environmental requirements is not likely to
have a material effect upon our competitive position or earnings. See  Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   3. Contingent Liabilities and
Commitments   Environmental Matters. 

7

Table of Contents   

COMPETITION 

The natural gas industry has undergone tremendous change since the issuance of FERC Order 636
in 1992. Order 636 required that the natural gas sales, transportation, and other services that
were formerly provided in bundled form by pipelines be separated, resulting in non-discriminatory
open access transportation services, and encouraged the establishment of market hubs. These and
other factors have led to a commodity market in natural gas and to increasingly competitive markets
in natural gas services, including competitive secondary markets in pipeline capacity. As a result,
pipeline capacity is being used more efficiently, and peaking and storage services are increasingly
effective substitutes for annual pipeline capacity. These factors have increased the risk for
pipelines of contract non-renewal or capacity turnback and have encouraged shorter contract lives.

At the state level, both local distribution company (LDC) unbundling and electric industry
restructuring are affecting pipeline markets. Several states have implemented changes similar to
the federal changes under Order 636. New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware,
Georgia and the District of Columbia have established regulations for LDC unbundling. Although
pipeline operators are increasingly challenged to accommodate the flexibility demanded by customers
and allowed under tariffs, the changes being implemented at the state level have not, thus far,
required renegotiation of  LDC contracts. The state plans have in some cases discouraged LDCs from
signing long-term contracts for new capacity.

Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS/RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY 
STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE  SAFE HARBOR  PROVISIONS OF 
THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 

Certain matters contained in this report, excluding historical information, include
forward-looking statements   statements that discuss our expected future results based on current
and pending business operations. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe
harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report which
address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or may
occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified
by various forms of words such as  anticipates,   believes,   could,   may,   should,   continues, 
 estimates,   expects,   forecasts,   might,   planned,   potential,   projects,   scheduled  or
similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding:

amounts and nature of future capital expenditures; 

expansion and growth of our business and operations; 

business strategy; 

cash flow from operations; 

rate case filing; 

power and gas prices and demand. 

8

Table of Contents   

Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that
could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in
this document.

Some of these risks are described in the  Risk Factors  section of this report and one should
keep in mind these risk factors when considering forward-looking statements. Given the
uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those
contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward
looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update the above list or to announce publicly
the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or
developments. Further, the information about our intentions contained or incorporated into this
report represents our intention as of the date of this report and is based on, among other things,
the existing regulatory environment, industry conditions, market conditions and prices, the economy
in general and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, at any time and
without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions, or otherwise.

RISK FACTORS 

You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information
in this report. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, operating results, and
financial condition as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities.

Risks Inherent to our Industry and Business 

Decreases in the volume of natural gas contracted or transported through our pipeline system for
any of the reasons described below will adversely affect our business.  

Expiration of firm transportation agreements.  A substantial portion of our operating revenues
are generated through firm transportation agreements that expire periodically and must be
renegotiated and extended or replaced. We cannot give any assurance as to whether any of these
agreements will be extended or replaced or that the terms of any renegotiated agreements will be as
favorable as the existing agreements. Upon the expiration of these agreements, should customers
turn back or substantially reduce their commitments, we could experience a significant decline in
our revenues.

Decreases in natural gas production.  The development of additional natural gas reserves
requires significant capital expenditures by others for exploration and development drilling and
the installation of production, gathering, storage, transportation and other facilities that permit
natural gas to be produced and delivered to our pipeline systems. Low prices for natural gas,
regulatory limitations, or the lack of available capital for these projects could adversely affect
the development of additional reserves and production, gathering, storage and pipeline transmission
and import and export of natural gas supplies. Additional natural gas reserves might not be
developed in commercial quantities and in sufficient amounts to fill the capacities of our
gathering and transmission pipeline facilities. Additionally, in some cases, new liquefied natural
gas (LNG) import facilities built near our markets could result in less demand for our gathering
and transmission facilities.

Decreases in demand of natural gas.  Demand depends on the ability and willingness of shippers
with access to our facilities to satisfy their demand by deliveries through our system. Any
decrease in this demand

9

Table of Contents   

could adversely after our business. Demand of natural gas is also dependent upon the impact
of weather, future industrial and economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel
requirements, governmental regulation, or technological advances fuel economy and energy generation
devices, all of which are matters beyond our control.

Competitive pressures.  Although most of our pipeline system s current capacity is contracted
under firm transportation service agreements the FERC has taken certain actions to strengthen
market forces in the natural gas pipeline industry that have led to increased competition
throughout the industry. In a number of key markets, interstate pipelines are now facing
competitive pressure from other major pipeline systems, enabling local distribution companies and
end users to choose a transmission provider based on considerations other than location. Other
entities could construct new pipelines or expand existing pipelines that could potentially serve
the same markets as our pipeline system. Any such new pipelines could offer transportation services
that are more desirable to shippers because of locations, facilities, or other factors. These new
pipelines could charge rates or provide service to locations that would result in greater net
profit for shippers and producers and thereby force us to lower the rates charged for service on
our pipeline in order to extend our existing transportation service agreements or to attract new
customers We are aware of proposals by competitors to expand pipeline capacity in certain markets
we also serve. There can be no assurance that any such proposed project might not proceed and
increase the competitive pressures upon us.

Our gathering and transporting activities involve numerous risks that might result in accidents and
other operating risks and costs.  

Our operations are subject to all the risks and hazards typically associated with the
transportation of natural gas. These operating risks include, but are not limited to:

blowouts, cratering and explosions; 

uncontrollable flows of natural gas; 

fires; 

pollution and other environmental risks; 

natural disasters; 

terrorists attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of other energy companies. 

In addition, there are inherent in our gas gathering and transporting properties a variety of
hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could cause
substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life,
significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and
substantial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance
against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of pipelines near populated
areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could
increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Certain segments of our pipelines run
through such areas. In spite of our precautions, an event could cause considerable harm to people
or property, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of
operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. Accidents or other
operating risks could
further

10

Table of Contents   

result in loss of service available to our customers. Such circumstances could
adversely impact our ability to meet contractual obligations and retain customers.

Costs of environmental liabilities and complying with existing and future environmental regulations
could exceed our current expectations.  

Our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of
federal, state and municipal laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations impose, among other
things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use,
storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, in connection
with spills, releases and emissions of various substances into the environment, and in connection
with the operation, maintenance, abandonment and reclamation of our facilities.

Compliance with environmental laws will require significant expenditures including for clean
up costs and damages arising out of contaminated properties. The possible failure to comply with
environmental laws and regulations might result in the imposition of fines and penalties. We are
generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our
facilities and assets, whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and
whether they are known or unknown. In connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, we
could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against environmental liabilities that
could expose us to material losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps
we could be required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance could be prohibitively
expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those
facilities, which might cause us to incur losses. Although we do not expect that the costs of
complying with current environmental laws will have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition or results of operations, no assurance can be given that the costs of complying with
environmental laws in the future will not have such an effect.

We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible expenditures related to
environmental conditions based on current laws and regulations and current interpretations of those
laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or regulations, or the laws and regulations
themselves, change, our assumptions may change. Our regulatory rate structure and our contracts
with customers might not necessarily allow us to recover capital costs we incur to comply with the
new environmental regulations. Also, we might not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time
all required environmental regulatory approvals for certain development projects. If there is a
delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and
comply with them, the operation of our facilities could be prevented or become subject to
additional costs, resulting in potentially material adverse consequences to our operations.

Risks Related to Strategy and Financing 

Our debt agreements impose restrictions on us that may adversely affect our ability to operate our
business.  

Certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that restrict or limit, among other things,
our ability to create liens, sell assets, make certain distributions and incur additional debt. In
addition, our debt agreements contain, and those we enter into in the future may contain, financial
covenants and other limitations with which we will need to comply. Our ability to comply with these
covenants may be affected by many events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that our
future operating results will be sufficient to comply with the covenants or, in the event of a
default under any of our debt agreements, to remedy that default.

11

Table of Contents   

Our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements and other related
transactional documents could result in events of default. Upon the occurrence of such an event of
default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under a particular facility to
be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments, if any, to extend further credit. An
event of default or an acceleration under one debt agreement could cause a cross-default or
cross-acceleration of another debt agreement. Such a default or acceleration could have a wider
impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt
instrument. If an event of default occurs, or if other debt agreements cross-default, and the
lenders under the affected debt agreements accelerate the maturity of such debt outstanding to us,
we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay amounts outstanding under such debt agreements.

Our lack of investment grade credit ratings increases our costs of doing business in many ways and
increases our risks from market disruptions and further credit downgrades.  

Because we do not have an investment grade credit rating, our transactions require greater
credit assurances to satisfy credit support requirements. In addition, we are more vulnerable to
the impact of market disruptions or a further downgrade of our credit rating that might further
increase our cost of borrowing or further impair our ability to access one or any of the capital
markets. Such disruptions could include:

further economic downturns; 

deteriorating capital market conditions generally; 

declining market prices for electricity and natural gas; 

the overall health of the energy industry, including the
bankruptcy or insolvency of other energy companies. 

Williams can exercise substantial control over our dividend policy and our business and operations
and may do so in a manner that is adverse to our interests.  

We are an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Williams. Our board of directors, which is
elected by WGP, which in turn is controlled by Williams, exercises substantial control over our
business and operations and makes determinations with respect to, among other things, the
following:

payment of dividends and repayment of advances; 

decisions on financings and our capital raising activities; 

mergers or other business combinations; 

acquisition or disposition of assets. 

Our board of directors could decide to increase dividends or advances to our parent entities.
This could adversely affect our liquidity. Moreover, various Williams credit facilities include
covenants restricting the ability of Williams entities, including us, to make advances to Williams
and its other subsidiaries, which could make the terms on which we may be able to secure additional
future financing less favorable.

12

Table of Contents   

The financial condition and liquidity of Williams affects our access to capital, our credit
standing and our financial condition.  

Substantially all of Williams  operations are conducted through its subsidiaries. Williams 
cash flows are substantially derived from loans and dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries,
including WGP, our parent company under which Williams  interstate natural gas pipelines and gas
pipeline joint venture investments are grouped. Williams  cash flows are typically utilized to
service debt and pay dividends on the common stock of Williams, with the balance, if any,
reinvested in its subsidiaries as contributions to capital.

Our ratings and credit are impacted by Williams  credit standing. If Williams were to
experience deterioration in its credit standing or liquidity difficulties, our access to credit and
our ratings could be adversely affected.

Despite Williams  restructuring efforts, we may not attain investment grade ratings.  

Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when assigning credit ratings. Given the
significant changes in capital markets and the energy industry over the last few years, credit
rating agencies continue to review the criteria for attaining investment grade ratings and make
changes to those criteria from time to time. Our goal is to attain investment grade ratios.
However, there is no guarantee that the credit rating agencies will assign us investment grade
ratings even if we meet or exceed their criteria for investment grade ratios.

We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers in the ordinary course of our business  

We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers in the ordinary course of our business.
Generally our customers are rated investment grade or are required to make pre-payments or provide
security to satisfy credit concerns. However, we cannot predict at this time to what extent our
business would be impacted by deteriorating conditions in the energy sector, including declines in
our customers  creditworthiness.

Risks Related to Regulations that Affect our Industry 

Our gas sales, transmission, and storage operations are subject to government regulations and rate
proceedings that could have an adverse impact on the profitability of these operations.  

Our interstate gas sales, transmission, and storage operations are subject to the FERC s rules
and regulations in accordance with the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of
1978. The FERC s regulatory authority extends to:

transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce; 

rates and charges; 

construction; 

acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; 

13

Table of Contents   

accounts and records; 

depreciation and amortization policies; and 

operating terms and conditions of service. 

Regulatory actions in these areas can affect our business in many ways, including decreasing
tariff rates and revenues, decreasing volumes in our pipelines, increasing our costs and otherwise
altering the profitability of our business.

The FERC s Order No. 2004 contains standards of conduct for transmission providers when
dealing with  energy affiliates  as defined by the rule. The standards of conduct are intended to
prevent transmission providers from preferentially benefiting their energy affiliates by requiring
the employees of a transmission provider to function independently from employees of energy
affiliates and by restricting the information that transmission providers may provide to energy
affiliates. The inefficiencies created by the restrictions on the sharing of employees and
information may increase our costs, and the restrictions on the sharing of information may have an
adverse impact on our senior management s ability to effectively obtain important information about
our business. Violators of the rules are subject to potentially substantial civil penalty
assessments.

Unlike other pipelines that own facilities in the offshore Gulf of Mexico, we charge our
transportation customers a separate fee to access our offshore facilities. The separate charge that
we assess, which we refer to as an  IT feeder  charge, is charged only when the facilities are
used, and typically is paid by producers or marketers. This means that we recover the costs
included in the  IT feeder  charge only if our facilities are used, and because it is typically
paid by producers and marketers it generally results in netback prices to producers that are
slightly lower than the netbacks realized by producers transporting on other interstate pipelines.
Longer term, this rate design disparity could result in producers bypassing our offshore facilities
in favor of alternative transportation facilities. We have asked the FERC to allow us to eliminate
the IT feeder charge and charge for transportation on our offshore facilities in the same manner as
the other pipelines. Our requests have been denied.

The outcome of pending rate cases to set the rates we can charge customers on our pipeline might
result in rates that lower our return on the capital that we have invested in our pipeline.  

We anticipate that in the next twelve months we will file a rate case with the FERC to request
changes to the rates we charge. The outcome of the rate case is uncertain. There is a risk that
rates set by the FERC will lower our return on the capital we have invested in our assets. There
is also the risk that higher rates will cause us to discount our services or result in our
customers seeking alternative ways to transport their natural gas.

Legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations relating to the energy industry and capital
markets have adversely affected our business and many continue to do so.  

Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry and of the capital markets has resulted
in increased regulation being either proposed or implemented. Such scrutiny has also resulted in
various inquiries, investigations and court proceedings in which we are a named defendant.

14

Table of Contents   

Such inquiries, investigations and court proceedings are ongoing and continue to adversely
affect our
business as a whole. We might see these adverse effects continue as a result of the
uncertainty of these ongoing inquiries and proceedings, or additional inquiries and proceedings by
federal or state regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we cannot predict the
outcome of any of these inquiries or whether these inquiries will lead to additional legal
proceedings against us, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other regulatory action, including
legislation, which might be materially adverse to the operation of our business and our revenues
and net income or increase our operating costs in other ways. Current legal proceedings or other
matters against us including environmental matters, disputes over gas measurement and royalty
payments, suits, regulatory appeals and similar matters might result in adverse decisions against
us. The result of such adverse decisions, either individually or in the aggregate, could be
material and may not be covered fully or at all by insurance.

Risks Related to Accounting Standards 

Potential changes in accounting standards might cause us to revise our financial results and
disclosure in the future, which might change the way analysts measure our business or financial
performance.  

Accounting irregularities discovered in the past few years in various industries have forced
regulators and legislators to take a renewed look at accounting practices, financial disclosures,
companies  relationships with their independent auditors and retirement plan practices. Because it
is still unclear what laws or regulations will ultimately develop, we cannot predict the ultimate
impact of any future changes in accounting regulations or practices in general with respect to
public companies or the energy industry or in our operations specifically.

In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) or the FERC could enact new accounting standards or FERC orders that might impact
how we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities.

Risks Related to Employees, Outsourcing of Non-Core Support Activities 

Institutional knowledge residing with current employees or former Williams employees now employed
by Williams  outsourcing service providers might not be adequately preserved.  

In our business, institutional knowledge resides with employees who have many years of
service. As these employees reach retirement age, we may not be able to replace them with
employees of comparable knowledge and experience. Other qualified individuals could leave us or
refuse our offers of employment if our recruiting and retention efforts are unsuccessful. Our
efforts at knowledge transfer could be inadequate.

Due to the large number of former Williams employees who were migrated to an outsourcing
provider in 2004, access to significant amounts of internal historical knowledge and expertise
could become unavailable to us, particularly if knowledge transfer initiatives are delayed or
ineffective.

Failure of the outsourcing relationship might negatively impact our ability to conduct our
business.  

Some studies indicate a high failure rate of outsourcing relationships. Although Williams has
taken steps to build a cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship with its outsourcing
providers, a failure of all or part of these relationships could lead to loss of institutional
knowledge and interruption of services necessary for us to be able to conduct our business.

15

Table of Contents   

Williams  ability to receive services from outsourcing provider locations outside of the United
States might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, or unanticipated
regulatory requirements in jurisdictions outside the United States.  

Certain accounting, information technology application development, human resources, and help
desk services that are currently provided by Williams  outsourcing provider were relocated to
service centers outside of the United States during 2005. The economic and political conditions in
certain countries from which Williams  outsourcing providers may provide services to us present
similar risks of business operations located outside of the United States, including risks of
interruption of business, war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or
nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, that are greater than in the
United States.

Risks Related to Weather, other Natural Phenomena and Business Disruption 

Our assets and operations can be affected by weather and other natural phenomena.  

Our assets and operations, especially those located offshore, can be adversely affected by
hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and other natural phenomena and weather conditions including
extreme temperatures, making it more difficult for us to realize the historic rates of return
associated with these assets and operations.

Our current pipeline infrastructure is aging and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our
business.  

Some portions of our pipeline infrastructure are 50 years in age which may impact our ability
to provide reliable service. Additionally, the current age and condition of our pipeline
infrastructure may result in significant increases in the level of expenditures needed to maintain
our equipment and facilities.

Our current information technology infrastructure is aging and may adversely affect our ability to
conduct our business.  

Limited capital spending for information technology infrastructure during 2001-2003 resulted
in an aging server environment that may not be adequate for our current business needs. While
efforts are ongoing to update the environment, the current age and condition of equipment could
result in loss of internal and external communications, loss of data, inability to access data when
needed, excessive software downtime (including downtime for critical software applications), and
other disruptions that could have a material adverse impact on our business.

ITEM 2. Properties. 

See  Item 1. Business. 

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings. 

The information called for by this item is provided in  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   3. Contingent Liabilities and
Commitments    Legal Proceedings , which information is incorporated by reference into this item.

16

Table of Contents   

ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. 

Since we meet the conditions set forth in General Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K,
this information is omitted.

PART II 

ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Repurchases
of Equity Securities. 

We are an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Williams; therefore, our common stock is not
publicly traded.

Our Board of Directors declared cash dividends on common stock in the amounts of $20 million
on March 31, 2005, $25 million on June 30, 2005, $35 million on September 30, 2005 and $45 million
on December 30, 2005.

Our Board of Directors declared cash dividends on common stock in the amounts of $50 million
on June 30, 2004, $25 million on September 30, 2004 and $50 million on December 30, 2004.

ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data. 

Since we meet the conditions set forth in General Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K,
this information is omitted.

ITEM 7. Management s Narrative Analysis of the Results of Operations. 

GENERAL 

The following discussion and analysis of results of operations and capital resources and
liquidity should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes
thereto included within Item 8.

On February 28, 2006, we concluded that our consolidated financial statements for the years
ending December 31, 2004 and 2003 should be restated to correct an error related to the methodology
used to calculate the average cost of our natural gas inventory. We believe the impact of the adjustment is not material to any of the previously issued
consolidated financial statements. However, the cumulative adjustment required to correct the
error was significant to the Consolidated Statement of Income for 2005. In connection with the
restatement required by the natural gas inventory adjustment, the consolidated financial statements
for the years ending December 31, 2004 and 2003 were also restated to record the effects of certain
other prior period adjustments.

As
we have determined that the quarterly financial information included in
our Quarterly  Reports on Forms 10-Q and 10 Q/A filed in 2005 were
not materially misstated and can be relied upon, we will not be
amending those filings and have provided both  as reported 
and  as restated  quarterly financial data for comparison
purposes in  Item 8. Financial and Supplementory Data - Notes to
Consolidated Financial  
Statements - 9. Quarterly Information (unaudited).  

For a discussion of additional information on the restatement, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   2. Restatement. 

17

Table of Contents   

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Use of estimates  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Regulatory Accounting  We are regulated by the FERC. Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation,  provides that
rate-regulated public utilities account for and report regulatory assets and liabilities consistent
with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates if the rates established
are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive
environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. Accounting for
businesses that are regulated and apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71 can differ from the
accounting requirements for non-regulated businesses. Transactions that are recorded differently as
a result of regulatory accounting requirements include the capitalization of an equity return
component on regulated capital projects, capitalization of other project costs, retirements of
general plant assets, employee related benefits, environmental costs, negative salvage, asset
retirement obligations and other costs and taxes included in, or expected to be included in, future
rates. As a rate-regulated entity, our management has determined that it is appropriate to apply
the accounting prescribed by SFAS No. 71 and, accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the effects of the types of transactions described above that result from
regulatory accounting requirements.

Revenue subject to refund  FERC regulations promulgate policies and procedures which govern a
process to establish the rates that we are permitted to charge customers for natural gas sales and
services, including the transportation and storage of natural gas. Key determinants in the
ratemaking process are (1) costs of providing service, including depreciation expense, (2) allowed
rate of return, including the equity component of the capital structure and related taxes and (3)
volume throughput assumptions.

As a result of the ratemaking process, certain revenues collected by us may be subject to
possible refunds upon final orders in pending rate proceedings with the FERC. We record estimates
of rate refund liabilities considering our and other third party regulatory proceedings, advice of
counsel and estimated total exposure, as discounted and risk weighted, as well as collection and
other risks. Depending on the results of these proceedings, the actual amounts allowed to be
collected from customers could differ from management s estimates. In addition, as a result of rate
orders, tariff provisions or regulations, we are required to refund or credit certain revenues to
our customers. At December 31, 2005, we had accrued approximately $4 million for potential amounts
to be refunded or credited.

Contingent liabilities  We record liabilities for estimated loss contingencies when we assess
that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to
contingent liabilities are reflected in income in the period in which new or different facts or
information become known or circumstances change that affect the previous assumptions with respect
to the likelihood or amount of loss. Liabilities for contingent losses are based upon our
assumptions and estimates, and advice of legal counsel or other third parties regarding the
probable outcomes of the matter. As new developments occur or more information becomes available,
our assumptions and estimates of these liabilities may change. Changes in our

18

Table of Contents   

assumptions and estimates or outcomes different from our current assumptions and estimates
could materially affect future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period.

Impairment of long-lived assets  We evaluate long-lived assets for impairment when events or
changes in circumstances indicate, in management s judgment, that the carrying value of such assets
may not be recoverable. When such a determination has been made, management s estimate of
undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets is compared to the carrying value of the
assets to determine whether an impairment has occurred. If an impairment of the carrying value has
occurred, the amount of the impairment recognized in the consolidated financial statements is
determined by estimating the fair value of the assets and recording a loss for the amount that the
carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.

Judgments and assumptions are inherent in management s estimate of undiscounted future cash
flows used to determine recoverability of an asset and the estimate of an asset s fair value used
to calculate the amount of impairment to recognize. The use of alternate judgments and/or
assumptions could result in the recognition of different levels of impairment charges in the
consolidated financial statements.

Asset Retirement Obligations  We record an asset and a liability equal to the present value of
each expected future asset retirement obligation (ARO). The ARO asset is depreciated in a manner
consistent with the depreciation of the underlying physical asset. We measure changes in the
liability due to passage of time by applying an interest method of allocation. This amount is
recognized as an increase in the carrying amount of the liability and offset by a regulatory asset.

FERC Accounting Guidance  On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued an order,  Accounting for Pipeline
Assessment Cost,  to be applied prospectively effective January 1, 2006. The order requires
companies to expense certain assessment costs that we have historically capitalized. In September
2005, the FERC denied the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America s (INGAA) filing for
rehearing of this order, and INGAA filed a petition for review of the orders with the United States
Court of Appeal for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit Court). We anticipate expensing
approximately $20 million to $25 million in 2006 that previously would have been capitalized.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

2005 COMPARED TO 2004 

Operating Income and Net Income  Our operating income for 2005 was $342.1 million compared to
operating income of $346.1 million for 2004. Net income for 2005 was $185.3 million compared to net
income of $179.5 million for 2004.

The lower operating income of $4.0 million was primarily the result of lower natural gas
transportation revenues, higher operation and maintenance costs, lower cost of natural gas
transportation, higher administrative and general costs, higher taxes other than income taxes, and
other less significant variances. The increase in net income of $5.8 million was primarily
attributable to the decreased deductions in Other Income and Other Deductions partially offset by
the decrease in operating income. Also, net income increased due to a $3.0 million tax benefit
adjustment resulting from additional analysis of our tax basis and book basis

19

Table of Contents   

assets and liabilities. (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   6 Income Taxes.)

Transportation Revenues  Our operating revenues related to transportation services decreased
$16.7 million to $767.9 million for 2005 when compared to 2004. The lower transportation revenues
were primarily due to a decrease of $9.5 million of reimbursable costs that are included in
operating expenses and recovered in our rates and a $6.0 million decrease in commodity revenues
which is due primarily to lower interruptible transportation.

Sales Revenues  We make jurisdictional merchant gas sales pursuant to a blanket sales
certificate issued by the FERC, with most of those sales previously having been made through a Firm
Sales (FS) program which gave customers the option to purchase daily quantities of gas from us at
market-responsive prices in exchange for a demand charge payment. Pursuant to the terms of an
agreement with the FERC which resolved a prior investigation, we terminated our remaining FS
agreements effective April 1, 2005.

Through an agency agreement, WPC manages our remaining jurisdictional merchant gas sales,
which excludes our cash out sales in settlement of gas imbalances. The long-term purchase
agreements managed by WPC remain in our name, as do the corresponding sales of such purchased gas.
Therefore, we continue to record natural gas sales revenues and the related accounts receivable and
cost of natural gas sales and the related accounts payable for the jurisdictional merchant sales
that are managed by WPC. WPC receives all margins associated with jurisdictional merchant gas sales
business and, as our agent, assumes all market and credit risk associated with our jurisdictional
merchant gas sales. Consequently, our merchant gas sales service and, therefore, the termination of
the FS agreements in April 2005 have, no impact on our operating income or results of operations.

In addition to our merchant gas sales, we also have cash out sales, which settle gas
imbalances with shippers. In the course of providing transportation services to customers, we may
receive different quantities of gas from shippers than the quantities delivered on behalf of those
shippers. Additionally, we transport gas on various pipeline systems which may deliver different
quantities of gas on our behalf than the quantities of gas received from us. These transactions
result in gas transportation and exchange imbalance receivables and payables. Our tariff includes a
method whereby the majority of transportation imbalances generated after August 1, 1991 are settled
on a monthly basis through cash out sales or purchases. The cash out sales have no impact on our
operating income or results of operations.

Operating revenues related to our sales services decreased $114.9 million to $288.3 million
for 2005 when compared to 2004. The decrease was primarily due to a lower volume of merchant sales
because of the termination of the FS agreements during 2005. This was partially offset by increases
resulting from higher cash out sales volumes related to the monthly settlement of imbalances and a
higher average sales price of $6.88 per dt in 2005, compared to $6.16 per dt in 2004.

Storage Revenues  Our operating revenues related to storage services of $122.1 million for 2005
were comparable to revenues of $123.0 million for 2004.

Other Revenues  Our other operating revenues of $8.1 million for 2005 were comparable to
revenues of $9.1 million for 2004.

Operating Costs and Expenses  Excluding the cost of natural gas sales of $288.3 million for
2005 and $401.6 million for 2004, our operating expenses were approximately $16.0 million lower
than the comparable

20

Table of Contents   

period in 2004. This decrease was primarily attributable to the lower cost of
natural gas transportation,
partially offset by an increase in operation and maintenance expense. The lower cost of
natural gas transportation of $26.7 million is primarily due to a $14.2 million decrease associated
with the resolution of our 1999 Fuel Tracker filing (Docket No. TM99-6-29). Also, a $4.4 million
decrease was associated with additional monthly recoveries related to the 1999 fuel tracker filing
and a $3.2 million decrease was due to the benefit of pricing differentials in 2005 related to
volumes of gas used in operations. Additionally, there was a $4.6 million decrease in 2005 of
reimbursable costs that are recovered in our rates. The increase in operation and maintenance
expense of $8.8 million was mostly due to increased contract services costs of $2.7 million,
material and supplies expenses of $2.8 million and platform space rentals of $2.1 million. The
higher administrative and general expense of $1.8 million was primarily due to an increase of $8.1
million of allocated corporate expenses partially offset by a $4.3 million decrease related to
lower reimbursable costs associated with Gas Research Institute (GRI) charges. The FERC no longer
requires transmission companies to pay GRI fees. The increase in taxes other than income taxes
of $1.6 million is primarily due to higher property taxes resulting from increased property values
and additional capital spending.

Other Income and Other Deductions  Other income and other deductions resulted in $7.9 million
lower net expense in 2005 compared to 2004. This was primarily due to a $9.1 million decrease in
interest expense resulting from the retirement of $200 million of 6 1/8% notes in January 2005,
partially offset by the interest on the $75 million of Floating Rate Senior Notes issued in
December 2004.

EFFECT OF INFLATION 

We generally have experienced increased costs due to the effect of inflation on the cost of
labor, materials and supplies, and property, plant and equipment. A portion of the increased labor
and materials and supplies cost can directly affect income through increased operation and
maintenance expenses. The cumulative impact of inflation over a number of years has resulted in
increased costs for current replacement of productive facilities. The majority of our property,
plant and equipment and material and supplies inventory is subject to ratemaking treatment, and
under current FERC practices, recovery is limited to historical costs. While amounts in excess of
historical cost are not recoverable under current FERC practices, we believe that we will be
allowed to recover and earn a return based on increased actual costs incurred when existing
facilities are replaced. Cost based regulation along with competition and other market factors
limit our ability to price services or products based upon inflation s effect on costs.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY 

METHOD OF FINANCING 

We fund our capital requirements with cash flows from operating activities, by repayments of
funds advanced to Williams, accessing capital markets, and, if required, borrowings under our
$1.275 billion secured revolving credit facility (Credit Agreement) and advances from Williams.

We have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. At December 31, 2005, $200 million of availability remained under this registration
statement. While our credit ratings remain below investment grade, the shelf registration may only
be utilized to issue

21

Table of Contents   

debt securities if such securities are guaranteed by Williams. However, we can
raise capital through private debt offerings as well as offerings registered pursuant to
offering-specific registration statements without a
guaranty from Williams. When necessary, we also expect to access public and private markets,
and we expect to do so in 2006. Interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions will
affect the timing and amounts raised, if any, in the capital markets. We believe any additional
financing arrangements if required, can be obtained from the capital markets on terms that are
commensurate with our current credit ratings.

During May 2005, we, together with Williams and Northwest Pipeline Corporation, an affiliate,
amended and restated the Credit Agreement, which is available for borrowings and letters of credit,
resulting in certain changes, including the following:

added Williams Partners L.P. as a borrower for up to $75 million; 

provided Williams  guarantee for the obligations of Williams Partners L.P. under
this agreement; 

released certain Williams  midstream assets held as collateral and replaced them
with our common stock; and 

reduced commitment fees and margins. 

At December 31, 2005, letters of credit totaling $378 million, none of which are associated
with us, have been issued and no revolving credit loans were outstanding. Transco and Northwest
Pipeline each have access to $400 million under this facility to the extent not otherwise utilized
by Williams. Interest is calculated based on a choice of two methods: a fluctuating rate equal to
the facilitating bank s base rate plus an applicable margin or a periodic fixed rate equal rate to
LIBOR plus an applicable margin. We are required to pay a commitment fee (currently 0.325 %
annually) based on the unused portion of the facility. The applicable
margins and commitment fee are
based on the relevant borrower s senior unsecured long-term debt ratings.

As a participant in Williams  cash management program, we have advances to and from Williams.
At December 31, 2005, the advances due to us by Williams totaled $130.3 million. The advances are
represented by demand notes. The interest rate on intercompany demand notes is based upon the
weighted average cost of Williams  debt outstanding at the end of each quarter. Williams has
indicated that it currently believes that it will continue to have the financial resources and
liquidity to repay these advances. Prior to April 29, 2004, the advances were made to and from our
parent company, WGP.

Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, we hold a 35% interest in Pine Needle LNG Company, LLC
(Pine Needle). On March 20, 1998, Pine Needle executed an interest rate swap agreement with a bank,
which swapped floating rate debt into 6.58% fixed rate debt. This interest rate swap qualifies as a
cash flow hedge transaction under the accounting and reporting standards established by SFAS No.
133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  and amended by SFAS No. 138,
 Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities.  We adopted these
standards effective January 1, 2001. As such, our equity interest in the changes in fair value of
Pine Needle s hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income. For the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, our cumulative equity interest in an unrealized loss on Pine Needle s hedge was $0.4
million and $0.9 million, respectively. The swap agreement initially had a notional amount of $53.5
million of debt, of which $41.7 million was still outstanding at December 31, 2005. The interest
rate swap is settled quarterly. The swap agreement was effective March 31,

22

Table of Contents   

1999 and terminates on
December 31, 2013, which is also the date of the last principal payment on this long-term debt.

Credit Ratings 

We have no guarantees of off-balance sheet debt to third parties and maintain no debt
obligations that contain provisions requiring accelerated payment of the related obligations in the
event of specified levels of declines in Williams  or our credit ratings given by Moody s Investors
Service, Standard   Poor s and Fitch Ratings (rating agencies).

The credit ratings on our senior unsecured long-term debt did not change during 2005 and are
shown below.

Moody s Investors Services 

Ba2 

Standard   Poor s 

B      

Fitch Ratings 

BB  

During 2005, Standard and Poor s upgraded their evaluation of our credit rating to  positive
outlook  Fitch raised their evaluation of our credit rating to  positive outlook  in March 2006,
while the Moody s Investors Services evaluation remains unchanged as  stable outlook. 

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES 

As shown in the table below, our capital expenditures for 2005 included $22 million for
market-area projects, $19 million for supply-area projects and $204 million for maintenance of
existing facilities and other projects including expenditures required under the Federal Clean Air
Act and Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002. We are
estimating approximately $275 million to $310 million of capital expenditures in the year 2006
related to the maintenance of existing facilities, including Clean Air Act and pipeline safety
expenditures, and expansion projects in the market area, primarily the Leidy to Long Island and
Sentinel projects and supply area projects.

23

Table of Contents   

OTHER CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS, CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND CONTINGENCIES 

Contractual obligations  The table below summarizes the maturity dates of our contractual
obligations by period (in millions).

(1) 
       
     Includes one year of pipeline easement obligations for contracts with indefinite
termination dates. 

Regulatory and legal proceedings  As discussed in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8 herein, we are involved in several pending regulatory and legal
proceedings. Because of the complexities of the issues involved in these proceedings, we cannot
predict the actual timing of resolution or the ultimate amounts, which might have to be refunded or
paid in connection with the resolution of these pending regulatory and legal proceedings.

Environmental matters  As discussed in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Item 8 herein, we are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws
and regulations which affect our operations related to the construction and operation of our
pipeline facilities. We consider environmental assessment and remediation costs and costs
associated with compliance with environmental standards to be recoverable through rates, as they
are prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business. To date, we have been permitted
recovery of environmental costs incurred, and it is our intent to continue seeking recovery of such
costs, as incurred, through rate filings.

Long-term gas purchase contracts  We have long-term gas purchase contracts containing variable
prices that are currently in the range of estimated market prices. However, due to contract
expirations and estimated deliverability declines, our estimated purchase commitments under such
gas purchase contracts are not material to our total gas purchases.

24

Table of Contents   

CONCLUSION 

Although no assurances can be given, we currently believe that the aggregate of cash flows
from operating activities, supplemented, when necessary, by repayments of funds advanced to
Williams, advances or capital contributions from Williams and borrowings under the Credit Agreement
will provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet our capital requirements. When necessary, we also
expect to access public and private markets to finance our capital requirements, and expect to do
so in 2006.

ITEM 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Due to variable rate issues in its debt portfolio, Transco s interest rate risk exposure is
influenced by short-term rates, primarily London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) on borrowings from
commercial banks. To mitigate the impact of fluctuations in short-term interest rates, Transco
maintains a significant portion of its debt portfolio in fixed rate debt.

The following tables provide information about our long-term debt, including current
maturities, as of December 31, 2005. The tables present principal cash flows and weighted-average
interest rates by expected maturity dates.

25

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

Page 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

27 

Consolidated Statement of Income

28 

Consolidated Balance Sheet

29-30 

Consolidated Statement of Common Stockholder s Equity

31 

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

32 

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

33-34 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

35-77 

26

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

The Board of Directors of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation   

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line
Corporation as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income,
common stockholder s equity, comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2005. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility
of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting
as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for
the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.

As described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 2004 and the related
consolidated statements of income, common
stockholder s equity, comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the two years in the period
ended December 31, 2004 have been restated.

As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective December 31, 2005,
the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 47,   Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations,   and effective
January 1, 2003, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143,
  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.  

/s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP

Houston, Texas 
March 20, 2006

27

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME 

(Thousands of Dollars) 

See accompanying notes.

28

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 

(Thousands of Dollars) 

See accompanying notes.

29

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

See accompanying notes.

30

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 

(Thousands of Dollars) 

See accompanying notes.

31

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

(Thousands of Dollars) 

See accompanying notes.

32

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 

(Thousands of Dollars) 

33

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

See accompanying notes.

34

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Corporate structure and control  Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation (Transco) is a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC (WGP). WGP is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of The Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams).

In this report, Transco (which includes Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation and unless
the context otherwise requires, all of our subsidiaries) is at times referred to in the first
person as  we   us  or  our. 

Nature of operations  We are an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns a natural
gas pipeline system extending from Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and the Gulf of Mexico through the
states of Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania and
New Jersey to the New York City metropolitan area. The system serves customers in Texas and the
eleven southeast and Atlantic seaboard states mentioned above, including major metropolitan areas
in Georgia, North Carolina, New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. We also hold a minority interest
in an intrastate natural gas pipeline in North Carolina.

Regulatory accounting  We are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain
Types of Regulation,  provides that rate-regulated public utilities account for and report
regulatory assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which
regulators establish rates if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing
the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be
charged and collected. Accounting for businesses that are regulated and apply the provisions of
SFAS No. 71 can differ from the accounting requirements for non-regulated businesses. Transactions
that are recorded differently as a result of regulatory accounting requirements include the
capitalization of an equity return component on regulated capital projects, capitalization of other
project costs, retirements of general plant assets, employee related benefits, environmental costs,
negative salvage,
asset retirement obligations, and other costs and taxes included in, or expected to be included in,
future rates. As a rate-regulated entity, our management has determined that it is appropriate to
apply the accounting prescribed by SFAS No. 71 and, accordingly, the accompanying consolidated
financial statements include the effects of the types of transactions described above that result
from regulatory accounting requirements.

35

Table of Contents   

Basis of presentation  The acquisition of Transco Energy Company (TEC) and its subsidiaries,
including us, by Williams in 1995 was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
Accordingly, an allocation of the purchase price was assigned to our assets and liabilities based
on their estimated fair values. The purchase price allocation to us primarily consisted of a $1.5
billion allocation to property, plant and equipment and adjustments to deferred taxes based upon
the book basis of the net assets recorded as a result of the acquisition. The amount allocated to
property, plant and equipment is being depreciated on a straight-line basis over 40 years, the
estimated useful lives of these assets at the date of acquisition, at approximately $36 million per
year. Current FERC policy does not permit us to recover through rates amounts in excess of original
cost.

As a participant in Williams  cash management program, we have advances to and from Williams.
These advances are represented by demand notes. We currently expect to receive payment of these
advances within the next twelve months and have recorded such advances as current in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet. Effective September 2003, the interest rate on
intercompany demand notes is based upon the weighted average cost of Williams  debt outstanding at
the end of each quarter. Previously, the interest rate on intercompany demand notes was based on
the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an applicable margin. Prior to April 29, 2004, the
advances were made to and from our parent company, WGP.

Through an agency agreement, Williams Power Company (WPC), an affiliate of ours, manages all
jurisdictional merchant gas sales for us, receives all margins associated with such business and,
as our agent, assumes all market and credit risk associated with our jurisdictional merchant gas
sales. Consequently, our merchant gas sales have no impact on our operating income or results of
operations.

Our Board of Directors declared cash dividends on common stock in the amounts of $125 million,
$125 million and $245 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Principles of consolidation  The consolidated financial statements include our accounts and the
accounts of our majority-owned subsidiaries. Companies in which we and our subsidiaries own 20 to
50 percent of the voting common stock or otherwise exercise significant influence over operating
and financial policies of the company are accounted for under the equity method. The equity
investments as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 primarily consist of Cardinal Pipeline Company, LLC
with ownership interest of approximately 45% and Pine Needle LNG Company, LLC (Pine Needle) with
ownership interest of 35%. We received distributions associated with our equity investments in the
amounts of $7.5 million, $7.5 million and $7.8 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Use of estimates  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Estimates and assumptions
which, in the opinion of management, are significant to the underlying amounts included in the
financial statements and for which it would be reasonably possible that future events or
information could change those estimates include: 1) revenues subject to refund; 2)
litigation-related contingencies; 3) environmental remediation obligations; 4) impairment
assessments of long-lived assets; 5) deferred and other income taxes; 6) depreciation; 7) pensions
and other post-employment benefits; and 8) asset retirement obligations.

Revenue recognition  Revenues for sales of products are recognized in the period of delivery
and revenues from the transportation and storage of gas are recognized in the period the service is
provided based on contractual terms and the related volumes. As a result of the ratemaking process,
certain revenues collected

36

Table of Contents   

by us may be subject to possible refunds upon final orders in pending
rate proceedings with the FERC. We record estimates of rate refund liabilities considering our and
other third party regulatory proceedings, advice of counsel and estimated total exposure, as
discounted and risk weighted, as well as collection and other risks.

Contingent liabilities  We record liabilities for estimated loss contingencies when we assess
that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to
contingent liabilities are reflected in income in the period in which new or different facts or
information become known or circumstances change that affect the previous assumptions with respect
to the likelihood or amount of loss. Liabilities for contingent losses are based upon our
assumptions and estimates, and advice of legal counsel or other third parties regarding the
probable outcomes of the matter. As new developments occur or more information becomes available,
our assumptions and estimates of these liabilities may change. Changes in our assumptions and
estimates or outcomes different from our current assumptions and estimates could materially affect
future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period.

Environmental Matters  We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and
regulations. Environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized depending on their economic
benefit and potential for rate recovery. We believe that any expenditures required to meet
applicable environmental laws and regulations are prudently incurred in the ordinary course of
business and that substantially all of such expenditures would be permitted to be recovered through
rates. We believe that compliance with applicable environmental requirements is not likely to have
a material effect upon our financial position or results of operations.

Property, plant and equipment  Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost, adjusted in
1995 to reflect the allocation of the purchase price as discussed above. The carrying values of
these assets are also based on estimates, assumptions and judgments relative to capitalized costs,
useful lives and salvage values. These estimates, assumptions and judgments reflect FERC
regulations, as well as historical experience and expectations regarding future industry conditions
and operations. Gains or losses from the ordinary sale or retirement of property, plant and
equipment are credited or charged to accumulated depreciation; certain other gains or losses are
recorded in operating income.

We provide for depreciation using the straight-line method at FERC prescribed rates, including
negative salvage for offshore transmission facilities. Depreciation of general plant is provided on
a group basis at straight-line rates. Depreciation rates used for major regulated gas plant
facilities at December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 are as follows:

In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation
(FIN) No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations   an interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 143.  The Interpretation clarifies that the term  conditional asset retirement  as
used in SFAS No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,  refers to a legal obligation
to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement are
conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The
Interpretation also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient

37

Table of Contents   

information to reasonably
estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation.

We adopted the Interpretation on December 31, 2005. In accordance with the Interpretation, we
estimated future retirement obligations for certain assets previously considered to have an
indeterminate life. As a result, we recorded an increase in Other Long-Term Liabilities: Other, of
$8.8 million, and an increase in property, plant and equipment,
net, of $1.4 million. We also
recorded a $7.4 million regulatory asset in Other Assets for retirement costs expected to be
recovered through rates. Had we implemented the Interpretation at the beginning of 2003, the
financial statement impact at December 31, 2004 would not have been substantially different than
the impact at December 31, 2005.

We adopted SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003. We previously determined that asset retirement
obligations exist for our offshore transmission platforms. In 2004, the remaining life of one of
our storage facilities became determinable, and we were able to estimate the asset retirement
obligation. Therefore, we recorded an asset retirement obligation in 2004 in the amount of $5.6
million associated with the storage facility. In 2005 we revised our
estimate for offshore transmission platforms based on a change in the
estimated settlement date and a change in the estimated costs of
retirements, resulting in a $23.7 million increase in the asset
retirement obligation and  property, plant and equipment, net.

During 2005 and 2004, our overall asset retirement obligation changed as follows (in thousands):

The accrued obligations relate to underground storage caverns, offshore platforms, pipelines,
and gas transmission facilities. At the end of the useful life of each respective asset, we are
legally obligated to plug storage caverns and remove any related surface equipment, to dismantle
offshore platforms, to cap certain gathering pipelines at the wellhead connection and remove any
related surface equipment, and to remove certain components of gas transmission facilities from the
ground.

Included in our depreciation rates is a negative salvage (cost of removal) component that we
currently collect in rates. We therefore accrue the estimated costs of removal of long-lived assets
through depreciation expense.

The adoption of SFAS No. 143 and FIN 47 did not have a material impact to our operating income
or net income.

Impairment of long-lived assets and investments  We evaluate the long-lived assets of
identifiable business activities for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate,
in our management s judgment, that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. When
an indicator of impairment has occurred, we compare our management s estimate of undiscounted
future cash flows attributable to the assets

38

Table of Contents   

to the carrying value of the assets to determine
whether an impairment has occurred. We apply a probability-weighted approach to consider the
likelihood of different cash flow assumptions and possible outcomes including selling in the near
term or holding for the remaining estimated useful life. If an impairment of the carrying value has
occurred, we determine the amount of the impairment recognized in the financial statements by
estimating the fair value of the assets and recording a loss for the amount that the carrying value
exceeds the estimated fair value.

For assets identified to be disposed of in the future and considered held for sale in
accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  we
compare the carrying value to the estimated fair value less the cost to sell to determine if
recognition of an impairment is required. Until the assets are disposed of, the estimated fair
value, which includes estimated cash flows from operations until the assumed date of sale, is
recalculated when related events or circumstances change.

We evaluate our investments for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate,
in our management s judgment, that the carrying value of such investments may have experienced an
other-than-temporary decline in value. When evidence of loss in value has occurred, we compare our
estimate of fair value of the investment to the carrying value of the investment to determine
whether an impairment has occurred. If the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value and
we consider the decline in value to be other than temporary, the excess of the carrying value over
the fair value is recognized in the financial statements as an impairment.

Judgments and assumptions are inherent in our management s estimate of undiscounted future
cash flows used to determine recoverability of an asset and the estimate of an asset s fair value
used to calculate the amount of impairment to recognize. The use of alternate judgments and/or
assumptions could result in the recognition of different levels of impairment charges in the
financial statements.

Accounting for repair and maintenance costs  We account for repair and maintenance costs under
the guidance of FERC regulations. The FERC identifies installation, construction and replacement
costs that are to be capitalized. All other costs are expensed as incurred.

Allowance for funds used during construction  Allowance for funds used during construction
(AFUDC) represents the estimated cost of borrowed and equity funds applicable to utility plant in
process of construction and are included as a cost of property, plant and equipment because it
constitutes an actual cost of construction under established regulatory practices. The FERC has
prescribed a formula to be used in computing separate allowances for borrowed and equity AFUDC. The
allowance for borrowed funds used during construction was $2.8 million, $2.2 million and $3.7
million, for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The allowance for equity funds was $ 6.5 million,
$6.1 million, and $9.3 million, for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Accounting for income taxes  Williams and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, which includes us,
file a consolidated federal income tax return. It is Williams  policy to charge or credit us with
an amount equivalent to our federal income tax expense or benefit computed as if we had filed a
separate return.

We use the liability method of accounting for income taxes which requires, among other things,
provisions for all temporary differences between the financial basis and the tax basis in our
assets and liabilities and adjustments to the existing deferred tax balances for changes in tax
rates.

39

Table of Contents   

Accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful receivables  Accounts receivable are stated at
the historical carrying amount net of reserves or write-offs. Due to our customer base, we have not
historically experienced recurring credit losses in connection with our receivables. Receivables
determined to be uncollectible are reserved or written off in the period of determination. At
December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had recorded reserves of $0.5 million and $0.8 million,
respectively, for uncollectible accounts.

Advances to affiliates  As a participant in Williams  cash management program, we make advances
to and receive advances from Williams. The advances are represented by demand notes. Advances are
stated at the historical carrying amounts. Interest income is recognized when chargeable and
collectibility is reasonably assured. The interest rate on intercompany demand notes is based upon
the weighted average cost of Williams  debt outstanding at the end of each quarter. Prior to April
29, 2004, the advances were made to and from our parent company, WGP.

Gas imbalances  In the course of providing transportation services to customers, we may receive
different quantities of gas from shippers than the quantities delivered on behalf of those
shippers. Additionally, we transport gas on various pipeline systems which may deliver different
quantities of gas on behalf of us than the quantities of gas received from us. These transactions
result in gas transportation and exchange imbalance receivables and payables which are recovered or
repaid in cash or through the receipt or delivery of gas in the future and are recorded in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet. Settlement of imbalances requires agreement between the
pipelines and shippers as to allocations of volumes to specific transportation contracts and timing
of delivery of gas based on operational conditions. Our tariff includes a method whereby most
transportation imbalances generated after August 1, 1991 are settled on a monthly basis. Each month
a portion of the imbalances are not identified to specific parties and remain unsettled. These are
generally identified to specific parties and settled in subsequent periods. We believe that amounts
that remain unidentified to specific parties and unsettled at year end are valid balances that will
be settled with no material adverse effect upon our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows. Imbalances predating August 1, 1991 are being recovered or repaid in cash or through
the receipt or delivery of gas upon agreement of the parties as to the allocation of the gas
volumes, and as permitted by pipeline operating conditions. These imbalances have been classified
as current assets and current liabilities at December 31, 2005 and 2004. We utilize the average
cost method of accounting for gas imbalances.

Deferred Cash Out  Most transportation imbalances generated after August 1, 1991 are settled in
cash on a monthly basis (cash out). We are required by our tariff to refund revenues received from
the cash out of transportation imbalances in excess of costs incurred during the annual August
through July reporting period. Revenues received in excess of costs incurred are deferred until
refunded in accordance with the requirement.

Gas inventory  We utilize the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method of accounting for inventory gas
in storage. The excess of current cost over the LIFO value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet dated
December 31, 2005 is approximately $56.4 million. The basis for determining current cost is the
December 2005 monthly average gas price delivered to pipelines in Texas and Louisiana. We utilize
the average cost method of accounting for gas available for customer nomination.

Reserve for Inventory Obsolescence  We perform an annual review of Materials and Supplies
inventories, including an analysis of parts that may no longer be useful due to planned
replacements of compressor engines and other components on our system. Based on this assessment, we
record a reserve for the value of the inventory which can no longer be used for maintenance and
repairs on our pipeline. Such reserves were $0.7 million and $0.1 million at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively.

40

Table of Contents   

Cash flows from operating activities and cash equivalents  We use the indirect method to report
cash flows from operating activities, which requires adjustments to net income to reconcile to net
cash flows provided by operating activities. We include short-term, highly-liquid investments that
have a maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents.

Comprehensive income  In 1998, Pine Needle executed an interest rate swap agreement with a
bank, which swapped floating rate debt into fixed rate debt. This interest rate swap qualifies as a
cash flow hedge transaction under the accounting and reporting standards established by SFAS No.
133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  and amended by SFAS No. 138,
 Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities.  Our equity interest
in the changes in fair value of Pine Needle s hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income
(loss), net of tax.

At December 31, 2002, we recorded a minimum pension liability of $7.4 million, net of $4.6
million tax, which was included as a component of our other comprehensive loss for the year 2002.
This minimum pension liability reversed in 2003.

Employee stock-based awards  Employee stock-based awards are accounted for under Accounting
Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  and related
interpretations. Williams  fixed-plan common stock options generally do not result in compensation
expense because the exercise price of the stock options equals the market price of the underlying
stock on the date of grant. The Williams  plans are described more fully in Note 5. The following
table illustrates the effect on our net income if we had applied the fair value recognition
provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  (SFAS123). Beginning January
1, 2006, we will adopt revised SFAS No. 123, Share-Based Payment  (SFAS 123(R)). See further
discussion in the   Recent Accounting Standards   section within this note.

Pro forma amounts for 2005 include compensation expense from awards made in 2002 through
2005. The incremental expense associated with a stock option exchange program (See Note 5) is
negligible for the 2005 pro forma expenses. Pro forma amounts for 2004 include compensation expense
from awards made in 2001 through 2004. Also included in 2004 pro forma expense is $0.7 million of
incremental expense associated with the stock option exchange program. Pro forma amounts for 2003
include compensation expense from awards made in 2001 through 2003. Also, included in 2003 pro
forma expense is $0.4 million of incremental expense associated with the stock option exchange
program.

41

Table of Contents   

Since compensation expense from stock options is recognized over the future years  vesting
period for pro forma disclosure purposes and additional awards are generally made each
year, pro forma amounts may not be representative of future years  amounts.

Recent accounting standards  In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R). The Statement
requires that compensation costs for all share-based awards, including grants of employee stock
options, to employees be recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income based on their fair
values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative. The Statement, as issued by the FASB,
was to be effective as of the beginning of the first interim or annual reporting period that begins
after June 15, 2005. However, in April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted a
new rule that delayed the effective date for SFAS No. 123(R) to the beginning of the next fiscal
year that begins after June 15, 2005. We intend to adopt the revised Statement as of January 1,
2006.

The Statement allows either a modified prospective application or a modified retrospective
application for adoption. We will use a modified prospective application for adoption and will
apply the Statement to new awards and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after January
1, 2006. Also, for unvested stock awards outstanding as of January 1, 2006, compensation costs for
the portion of these awards for which the requisite service has not been rendered will be
recognized as the requisite service is rendered after January 1, 2006. Compensation costs for
these awards will be based on fair value at the original grant date as estimated for the pro forma
disclosures under SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  as amended by SFAS No.
148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   Transition and Disclosure   an amendment of SFAS
No. 123.  Additionally, a modified retrospective application requires restating periods prior to
January 1, 2006 on a basis consistent with the pro forma disclosures required by SFAS No. 123, as
amended by SFAS No. 148. Since we will use a modified prospective application, we will not restate
prior periods.

We currently account for share-based awards to employees by applying the intrinsic value
method in accordance with APB No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and, as such,
generally recognizes no compensation cost for employee stock options. We currently recognize
compensation cost for deferred share awards. Adoption of the Statement s fair value method will
impact our results of operations. At January 1, 2006, we have approximately $5.3 million of
compensation cost from outstanding unvested stock awards to be recognized as the requisite service
is rendered, primarily in 2006 or 2007. Stock-based awards will be granted during 2006. Our
compensation cost as reported in pro forma disclosures required by SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS
No. 148, may not be representative of compensation cost to be incurred in 2006 and beyond as the
number and types of awards may differ and estimates of fair value may differ due to changes in the
market price of Williams  common stock and to changing capital market and employee exercise
behavior assumptions.

Certain of our stock awards currently result in compensation cost under APB No. 25 and related
guidance. These stock awards are subject to vesting provisions and our policy is to adjust
compensation cost for forfeitures when they occur. Upon the January 1, 2006, adoption of SFAS No.
123(R), we will adjust net income through a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle
for previously recognized compensation cost, net of income taxes, related to the estimated number
of these outstanding stock awards that are expected to be forfeited. The adjustment will not be
material.

We currently present pro forma disclosure of net income as if compensation costs from all
stock awards were recognized based on the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123. The
Statement requires use of valuation techniques, including option pricing models, to estimate the
fair value of employee stock awards. For pro forma disclosures, We currently use a Black-Scholes
option pricing model in estimating the fair value of employee stock options and we intend to
continue using a Black-Scholes pricing model when we adopt SFAS No. 123(R).

42

Table of Contents   

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections   a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3,  which is effective prospectively for
reporting a change in accounting principle for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The
Statement changes the reporting of a change in accounting principle to require retrospective
application to prior periods unless explicit transition provisions provide otherwise. The Statement
is effective for any existing accounting pronouncements, including those in the transition phase
when it becomes effective. We will apply SFAS No. 154 as required.

FERC Accounting Guidance  On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued an order,  Accounting for Pipeline
Assessment Cost,  to be applied prospectively effective January 1, 2006. The order requires
companies to expense certain pipeline integrity-related assessment costs that we have historically
capitalized. In September 2005, the FERC denied the Interstate Natural Gas Association of
America s (INGAA) filing for rehearing of this order, and INGAA has filed a petition for review of
the orders with the United States Court of Appeal for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C.
Circuit Court). We anticipate expensing approximately $20 million to $25 million in 2006 that
previously would have been capitalized prior to the order becoming effective.

2. RESTATEMENT 

On February 28, 2006, we concluded that our consolidated financial statements for each of the
years ending December 31, 2004 and 2003 should be restated to correct an error related to the
methodology used to calculate the average cost of our natural gas inventory. We believe the impact of the adjustment is not material to any of the previously issued
consolidated financial statements. However, the cumulative adjustment required to correct the
error was significant to the Consolidated Statement of Income for 2005.

We revised the weighted average and LIFO cost of our natural gas inventories and valuation of
gas imbalances, which corrections thereby affected amounts of previously reported fuel gains,
storage losses, and deferred cash out gains and losses. The restatement for these items resulted in an
increase in Cost of natural gas transportation of $6.3 million in 2004 and $13.1 million in 2003
and a decrease in January 1, 2003 Retained earnings of $7.7 million.

Certain other adjustments were identified in 2005 related to prior periods including a
write-off of regulatory assets, an adjustment to lease expense, and a correction of depreciation
and amortization expense. None of these items were individually significant but they have been
reflected in the proper periods in conjunction with the restatement. The impact of these
adjustments was an increase in Other expense of $2.6 million in 2004, an increase in
Administrative and general expense of $0.6 million in 2004, decreases in Depreciation and
amortization expense of $0.3 million in 2004 and $0.1 million in 2003, and an increase in 2003
beginning Retained earnings of $0.5 million.

43

Table of Contents   

Adjustments for the related income tax effects were also recorded in the respective periods.

The cumulative impact of these adjustments to our Consolidated Statements of Income for the
years 2004 and 2003 was a decrease in Operating income of $9.2 million and Net income of $5.7
million in 2004 and a decrease in Operating income of $13.0 million and Net income of $8.0 million
in 2003, and a decrease of $7.2 million, net of tax, related to periods prior to 2003.

The natural gas inventory adjustment resulted in changes to the December 31, 2004 balance
sheet as follows: an increase in Gas in storage of $2.1 million, a decrease in Gas available for
customer nomination of $29.9 million, an increase in Other Assets of $2.5 million, an increase in
Transportation and exchange gas payables of $3.1 million, an increase in Accrued liabilities:
Deferred Cash Out of $2.7 million, an increase in Accrued
liabilities: other of $0.7 million, an increase in income taxes payable of $12.0 million and a
decrease in Retained earnings of $19.8 million as of December 31, 2004.

The Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2004 also includes certain reclassifications
to conform to the 2005 presentation associated with regulatory assets and liabilities, asset
retirement obligations under SFAS No. 143, employee benefits accrual, other receivables, deferred taxes and
environmental remediation liabilities. The reclassifications resulted in an increase in current
assets of $17.6 million, a decrease in non current assets of $13.7 million, an increase in current
liabilities of $1.1 million and an increase in non current liabilities of $2.8 million.

The following schedules reconcile the amounts as originally reported in our Consolidated Financial
Statements as of December 31, 2004 and for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003.

44

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

45

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

46

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

47

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

48

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

49

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMMON STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

50

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

51

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

52

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

53

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

54

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

55

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
(Thousands of Dollars) 

56

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

The effect of the restatement adjustments on the Company s previously issued 2004 quarterly income statements are:

The effect of the restatement adjustments on the Company s previously issued 2005 quarterly income statements are:

57

Table of Contents   

3. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS 

Rate and Regulatory Matters 

General rate case (Docket No. RP01-245)  On March 1, 2001, we submitted to the FERC a general
rate filing principally designed to recover costs associated with an increase in rate base
resulting from additional plant, an increase in rate of return and related taxes, and an increase
in operation and maintenance expenses.

In July 2002, the FERC approved a Stipulation and Agreement (Settlement) which resolved all
cost of service, throughput and throughput mix issues in this rate case proceeding with the
exception of one cost of service issue related to the valuation of certain right-of-way access for
the installation of a fiber optic system by a then Transco affiliate, the resolution of which is to
be applied prospectively. The other issues not resolved by the Settlement include various cost
allocation, rate design and tariff matters.

On December 3, 2002, an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) issued his initial decision on the
issues not resolved by the Settlement. In the initial decision, the ALJ determined, among other
things, that (1) our existing treatment of the arrangement with our former affiliate relating to
right of way is just and reasonable, (2) our proposal to roll-in the costs of the Cherokee, Pocono
and SunBelt projects is unjust and unreasonable, and (3) our recovery of the costs of the Mobile
Bay expansion project on a rolled-in basis is unjust and unreasonable. As to the Mobile Bay issue,
the ALJ determined that we had the burden of establishing that roll-in of that project is just and
reasonable, but did not address the issue of any potential refunds. Our current rates are based on
the roll-in of the Mobile Bay expansion project.

On March 26, 2004, the FERC issued an order that affirmed, in part, and reversed, in part, the
ALJ s initial decision on the issues not resolved by the Settlement. On the issues discussed above,
the FERC affirmed the ALJ s determination that our existing treatment of the arrangement with our
former affiliate relating to right of way is just and reasonable and our proposal to roll-in the
costs of the Cherokee, Pocono and SunBelt projects is unjust and unreasonable, but reversed the
ALJ s rejection of our proposal to recover the costs of the Mobile Bay expansion project on a
rolled-in basis and found that we had shown that our proposed rolled-in rates are just and
reasonable. The FERC also affirmed the ALJ s determination that we must separate our Emergency
Eminence Withdrawal service from our Rate Schedule FT service and offer the Emergency Eminence
Withdrawal service under a separate rate schedule, thereby permitting shippers to decide whether to
take that service. Currently, the cost of the Emergency Eminence Withdrawal service is included as
part of our Rate Schedule FT service for those shippers that can access the Eminence Storage Field.
Under the FERC s decision, we would be at risk for those costs to the extent that shippers did not
elect to subscribe to all of the
separately offered service. On April 26, 2004, several parties, including Transco, filed
requests for rehearing of the FERC s March 26, 2004 order.

On August 5, 2005, the FERC issued an order addressing the requests for rehearing of the March
26, 2004 order. The FERC generally denied rehearing of the March 26, 2004 order, but granted
rehearing on a limited number of issues. On the issues described above, the FERC affirmed its
determination that we must separate our Emergency Eminence Withdrawal service from our Rate
Schedule FT service, but granted rehearing to require that each Rate Schedule FT shipper that
currently has access to the Emergency Eminence Withdrawal service must subscribe to its
proportionate share of the unbundled Emergency Eminence Withdrawal service until its Rate Schedule
FT contract terminates. The FERC also affirmed its determinations that our existing treatment of
the arrangement with our former affiliate relating to right of way is just and reasonable, our
proposal to roll-in the costs of the Cherokee, Pocono and SunBelt projects is unjust

58

Table of Contents   

and
unreasonable, and our proposal to recover the costs of the Mobile Bay expansion project on a
rolled-in basis is just and reasonable. The August 5, 2005 order did grant rehearing on certain of
the cost allocation, rate design and tariff issues, finding, among other things, that we must adopt
a  paper  pooling method for our Rate Zone 4, and that we must allocate storage costs to
incremental transportation services and to the transportation component of our bundled storage
services and include additional storage services in the allocation of storage costs to our
transportation services. Pursuant to the Settlement, the changes to our existing practices required
by or affirmed in the August 5, 2005 order would be implemented on a prospective basis. On
September 6, 2005, several parties, including Transco, filed requests for rehearing of the FERC s
August 5, 2005 order. In addition, the FERC s orders have been appealed to the United State Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit Court).

Gathering facilities spin-down order (Docket Nos. CP96-206-000 and CP96-207-000)  In 1996, we
filed an application with the FERC for an order authorizing the abandonment of certain facilities
located onshore and offshore in Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi by conveyance to an affiliate,
Williams Gas Processing   Gulf Coast Company (Gas Processing). The net book value of these
facilities at December 31, 2005, was approximately $305 million. Concurrently, Gas Processing filed
a petition for declaratory order requesting a determination that its gathering services and rates
be exempt from FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA). The FERC issued an order
dismissing our application and Gas Processing s petition for declaratory order and in 2001, the
FERC issued an order that denied our request for rehearing. Certain parties, including Transco,
filed in the D.C. Circuit Court petitions for review of the FERC s orders and in June 2003, those
petitions were denied. Several parties petitioned the United States Supreme Court for review of the
D.C. Circuit Court s opinion, and on January 12, 2004, the Court denied those petitions.

While the proceedings related to the 1996 application were pending, we filed with the FERC the
applications described below seeking authorization to abandon portions of the facilities included
in the 1996 application.

North Padre Island/Central Texas Systems Spin-down Proceeding (Docket Nos. CP01-32 and
CP01-34)  In 2000, we filed an application with the FERC seeking authorization to abandon certain of
our offshore Texas facilities by conveyance to Gas Processing. Gas Processing filed a
contemporaneous request that the FERC declare that the facilities sought to be abandoned would be
considered nonjurisdictional gathering facilities upon transfer to Gas Processing. The FERC
approved the abandonment and the non-jurisdictional treatment of all of these facilities. Effective
December 2001, we transferred to Gas Processing the North Padre Island facilities through a
non-cash dividend of $3.3 million, which represents the net book value of the facilities as of that
date. Parties filed petitions for review of the FERC s orders with the D.C. Circuit
Court which were consolidated with the appeals of the FERC s orders in CP96-206 and CP96-207,
discussed above, and which were denied by the D.C. Circuit Court in its opinion issued in June,
2003. In 2001, Shell Offshore, Inc. filed a complaint at the FERC against Gas Processing, Williams
Field Services Company (WFS) and us alleging concerted actions by these affiliates frustrated the
FERC s regulation of us. The alleged actions are related to offers of gathering service by WFS and
its subsidiaries with respect to the North Padre Island facilities. In 2002, the FERC issued an
order reasserting jurisdiction over that portion of the North Padre Island facilities previously
transferred to WFS. The FERC also determined a gathering rate for service on these facilities,
which is to be collected by us. Transco, Gas Processing and WFS each sought rehearing of the FERC s
order, and in May 2003, the FERC denied those requests for rehearing. Transco, Gas Processing and
WFS filed petitions for review of the FERC s orders with the D.C. Circuit Court and on July 13,
2004, the court granted the petitions, vacating the FERC s orders and remanding the case to the
FERC for further proceedings not inconsistent with the court s opinion. On February 15, 2005, the
FERC issued an order

59

Table of Contents   

in response to the D.C. Circuit Court remand. In that order, the FERC
determined that, based on the record and the court s decision, there is not a sufficient basis to
reassert NGA jurisdiction or to assert Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act jurisdiction over the
gathering rates and service on the North Padre Island facilities. Accordingly, the FERC reversed
its initial decision, dismissed the complaint filed by Shell, and directed us to remove the North
Padre Island gathering rate and rate schedule from our tariff. On March 7, 2005, Shell filed a
request for rehearing of the FERC s February 15, 2005 order. On September 15, 2005, the FERC issued
an order denying Shell s request for rehearing and terminated this Docket No. RP02-99 proceeding,
but concurrently with that order instituted a notice of inquiry in Docket No. PL05-10-000 to
evaluate possible changes to its test for reassertion of NGA jurisdiction over gathering
facilities. If the FERC adopts a different test, the FERC stated that its action in denying Shell s
request for rehearing is without prejudice to Shell s ability to present evidence that would
satisfy that new test. On October 17, 2005, Shell filed a request for rehearing of the FERC s
September 15, 2005 order.

With regard to the approval of the spin-down of the Central Texas facilities, a Transco
customer filed a complaint with the FERC in Docket No. RP02-309 seeking the revocation of the
FERC s spin-down approval. In September 2002, the FERC issued an order requiring that, upon
transfer of the Central Texas facilities, we acquire capacity on the transferred facilities and
provide service to the existing customer under the original terms and conditions of service. Our
request for rehearing was denied in May 2003. In that order, the FERC also required that we notify
the FERC of Transco s plans with regard to the transfer of the Central Texas facilities to Gas
Processing. We replied that due to the numerous outstanding issues affecting the transfer of those
facilities, we could not at that time predict the timing for the implementation of the transfer of
the Central Texas facilities. Transco and the customer each also filed a request for rehearing of
the FERC s May 2003 order. On May 6, 2004, the FERC issued an order on rehearing effectively
granting the customer s request for rehearing. On June 7, 2004, we filed a request for rehearing of
the May 6, 2004 order, which the FERC denied on July 6, 2004. On July 14, 2004, we filed a petition
for review of the FERC s orders with the D.C. Circuit Court. After we filed our initial brief, the
FERC filed a motion for a voluntary remand of the record to permit the FERC to further consider the
issues raised and to hold the proceedings in abeyance pending issuance of FERC orders on the
matter. On February 11, 2005, the D.C. Circuit Court granted FERC s motion and remanded the record
of this proceeding to the FERC. On June 16, 2005, the FERC issued an order on remand, which, among
other things, modifies the remedy adopted in its earlier orders to require Transco to reimburse the
customer for any additional costs that it incurs following the transfer of the facilities and seeks
to provide further support for its rulings in this proceeding. On July 18, 2005, we filed a
request for rehearing of the June 16, 2005 order, which the FERC denied on February 21, 2006. While
we have not yet transferred any of the facilities authorized for spin down to our affiliate, we
continue to evaluate the option of doing so. At December 31, 2005, the net book value of these
facilities was $62 million including the Williams purchase price allocation pushed down to Transco.

North High Island/West Cameron Systems and Central Louisiana System Spin-down Proceedings
(Docket Nos. CP01-103 and CP01-104, and CP01-368 and CP01-369)  In 2001 the FERC issued orders
authorizing us to spin down only a portion of these systems to Gas Processing. All legal challenges
of these FERC orders have been exhausted and while we have not yet transferred any of the
facilities authorized for spin down to our affiliate, we continue to evaluate the option of doing
so. On May 6, 2004, the FERC issued an order relating to the Central Louisiana system spin-down
proceeding in which the FERC required Transco and Gas Processing to show cause, due to developments
in another proceeding, why certain of the Central Louisiana facilities previously found to be
gathering should not be classified as jurisdictional transmission facilities. We filed our response
to the show cause order on July 6, 2004, arguing that the FERC should not alter its conclusion that
the facilities serve a gathering function. On April 19, 2005, the FERC issued an order reversing
its earlier finding and found that the facilities in question are jurisdictional

60

Table of Contents   

transmission
facilities. Transco and Gas Processing filed a request for rehearing of the FERC s April 19, 2005
order, and on June 28, 2005, the FERC denied that request. On August 26, 2005, Transco and Gas
Processing filed a joint petition for review of the FERC s orders with the D.C. Circuit Court.

The net book value, at the application dates in 2001, of the North High Island/West Cameron
and Central Louisiana facilities included in these two applications was approximately $65 million
including the Williams purchase price allocation pushed down to Transco.

South Texas Pipeline Facilities Abandonment Proceeding  In May 2003, the FERC denied our
request to abandon the South Texas pipeline facilities by sale to a third party. On June 25, 2003,
Transco and the third party purchaser announced that they had agreed to terminate the purchase and
sale agreement for the facilities. On July 6, 2004, we executed another agreement to sell the South
Texas pipeline facilities to a third party, but on March 24, 2005, the FERC denied our application
for authorization to effectuate the sale. The net book value of the South Texas pipeline facilities
as of December 31, 2005 was approximately $28 million, including the Williams purchase price
allocation pushed down to Transco.

1999 Fuel Tracker (Docket No. TM99-6-29)  On March 1, 1999, we made our annual filing pursuant
to our FERC Gas Tariff to recalculate the fuel retention percentages applicable to our
transportation and storage rate schedules, to be effective April 1, 1999. Included in the filing
were two adjustments that increased the estimated gas required for operations in prior periods by
approximately 8 billion cubic feet. Certain parties objected to the inclusion of those adjustments
and the FERC accepted the filing to be effective April 1, 1999, subject to refund and to further
FERC action. In subsequent orders, the FERC initially disallowed most of the adjustments, but later
reconsidered that decision and allowed us to make the adjustments, with the requirement that we
collect the adjustments over a seven-year period. Although several of our customers filed for
rehearing of the FERC s decision to allow us to recover the adjustments, the FERC denied the
request for rehearing, and an appeal of the FERC s decision was filed but later dismissed. In the
second quarter of 2001, we recorded a $15 million reduction in the cost of natural gas
transportation and reduced the related interest expense by $3 million to reflect the regulatory
approval to recover the cost of gas required for operations in prior periods.

The FERC then issued orders in which it addressed our proposed method for recovering the
permitted adjustments. The FERC determined that rather than collecting the revenue (including
interest) represented by the adjustments, we should collect only the actual volumes comprising the
adjustments. In the third quarter of 2002, as a result of the FERC s determination, we recorded $3
million of interest expense that had been previously reduced in the second quarter of 2001. Certain
customers filed requests for rehearing of the FERC s decision, the FERC denied those requests and
several parties filed a joint petition for review in the D.C. Circuit Court of the FERC s order. In
accordance with the FERC s order, on January 21, 2004 we distributed refunds
and assessed surcharges to our customers for the period April 1, 1999 through March 31, 2003.
On March 10, 2004, we assessed further surcharges to our customers covering the period April 1,
2003 through January 31, 2004. We implemented the revised fuel retention factors resulting from
application of the FERC s order on a prospective basis beginning February 1, 2004. Following the
filing of the petitioners  initial brief in their appeal of the FERC s orders, the FERC filed a
motion with the D.C. Circuit Court requesting that the court remand the record of the proceeding to
the FERC to permit the FERC to further consider the issues raised by the petitioners and to hold
the appeal in abeyance pending issuance of any further FERC order on this matter. On November 29,
2004, the D.C. Circuit Court issued an order granting the FERC s motion. Pursuant to a settlement
agreement between Transco and petitioners, on April 5, 2005, the petitioners filed a motion with
the FERC stating that they had determined that they no longer wished to contest the FERC s orders
that were under review in the appeal, and requested that the FERC issue an order terminating the
remand proceeding. On June 1, 2005, the FERC issued an order terminating the remand

61

Table of Contents   

proceeding
which became final on July 1, 2005. On July 6, 2005, the petitioners filed a motion with the D.C.
Circuit Court to dismiss their appeal with prejudice. On August 8, 2005, the D.C. Circuit Court
granted the petitioners  motion to dismiss their petition for review of the FERC s orders.
Consequently, we reversed in the third quarter a related liability which resulted in an increase to
pre-tax income of approximately $14.2 million, of which $5.2 million arose as a result of fuel
volumes recovered in 2005. We will continue to recognize monthly reductions to operating expenses
through March 2006 resulting from additional recoveries relating to the 1999 Fuel Tracker.

FERC enforcement matter    By order dated March 17, 2003, the FERC approved a settlement
between the FERC staff and Williams, WPC and us which resolved certain FERC staff s allegations. As
part of the settlement, WPC agreed, subject to certain exceptions, that it will not enter into new
transportation agreements that would increase the transportation capacity it holds on certain
affiliated interstate gas pipeline, including Transco. We also agreed to pay a civil penalty in
five equal installments, of which two $4 million installments will be paid in 2006 and 2007.

Legal Proceedings. 

Royalty claims and litigation  In connection with our renegotiations with producers to resolve
take-or-pay and other contract claims and to amend gas purchase contracts, we entered into certain
settlements which may require that we indemnify producers for claims for additional royalties
resulting from such settlements. Through our agent WPC, we continue to purchase gas under contracts
which extend, in some cases, through the life of the associated gas reserves. Certain of these
contracts contain royalty indemnification provisions, which have no carrying value. We have been
made aware of demands on producers for additional royalties and such producers may receive other
demands which could result in claims against us pursuant to royalty indemnification provisions.
Indemnification for royalties will depend on, among other things, the specific lease provisions
between the producer and the lessor and the terms of the agreement between the producer and us.
Consequently, the potential maximum future payments under such indemnification provisions cannot be
determined.

As a result of these settlements, we have been sued by certain producers seeking
indemnification. We are currently a defendant in one such lawsuit. The producer claims damages,
including interest calculated through December 31, 2005 of approximately $11 million. The Louisiana
Court of Appeals affirmed a lower court s judgment in our favor, and the producer is now seeking to
have the case reviewed by the Louisiana Supreme Court.

In 1998, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) informed Williams that Jack Grynberg,
an individual, had filed claims in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado
under the False Claims Act against Williams and certain of its wholly-owned subsidiaries including
us. Mr. Grynberg has also filed claims against approximately 300 other energy companies and alleges
that the defendants violated the False Claims Act in connection with the measurement, royalty
valuation and purchase of hydrocarbons. The relief sought is an unspecified amount of royalties
allegedly not paid to the federal government, treble damages, a civil penalty, attorneys  fees, and
costs. In April 1999, the DOJ declined to intervene in any of the Grynberg qui tam cases, including
the action filed against the Williams entities in the United States District Court for the District
of Colorado. In October 1999, the Panel on Multi-District Litigation transferred all of the
Grynberg qui tam cases, including those filed against Williams, to the United States District Court
for the District of Wyoming for pre-trial purposes. In October 2002, the court granted a motion to
dismiss Grynberg s royalty valuation claims. Grynberg s measurement claims remain pending against
Williams, including us, and

62

Table of Contents   

the other defendants, although the defendants have filed a number of
motions to dismiss these claims on jurisdictional grounds. Oral argument on these motions occurred
on March 17 and 18, 2005. In May 2005, the court-appointed special master entered a report which
recommended that many of the cases be dismissed, including the case pending against certain of the
Williams defendants, including Transco. The District Court is in the process of considering whether
to affirm or reject the special master s recommendations and heard oral arguments on December 9,
2005.

Hurricanes lawsuits  We were named as a defendant in two class action petitions for damages
filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana in September and
October 2005 arising from hurricanes that struck Louisiana in 2005. The class plaintiffs,
purporting to represent all persons, businesses and entities in the State of Louisiana who have
suffered damage as a result of the winds and storm surge from the hurricanes, allege that the
operating activities of the two sub-classes of defendants, which all oil and gas pipelines that
dredged pipeline canals or installed pipelines in the marshes of south Louisiana (including us) and
all oil and gas exploration and production companies which drilled for oil and gas or dredged
canals in the marshes of south Louisiana, have altered marshland ecology and caused marshland
destruction which otherwise would have averted all or almost all of the destruction and loss of
life caused by the hurricanes. Plaintiffs request that the court allow the lawsuits to proceed as
class actions and seek legal and equitable relief in an unspecified amount. We are presently
reviewing the petitions in preparation for filing responsive pleadings in these cases.

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations which
affect our operations related to the construction and operation of pipeline facilities. Appropriate
governmental authorities enforce these laws and regulations with a variety of civil and criminal
enforcement measures, including monetary penalties, assessment and remediation requirements and
injunctions as to future compliance. Our use and disposal of hazardous materials are subject to the
requirements of the federal Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), the federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act (RCRA) and comparable state statutes. The Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), also known as  Superfund,  imposes liability, without
regard to fault or the legality of the original act, for release of a  hazardous substance  into
the environment. Because these laws and regulations change from time to time, practices that have
been acceptable to the industry and to the regulators have to be changed and assessment and
monitoring have to be undertaken to determine whether those practices have damaged the environment
and whether remediation is required. Since 1989, we have had studies underway to test some of our
facilities for the presence of toxic and hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any,
remediation may be necessary. We have responded to data requests from the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) and
state agencies regarding such potential contamination of certain of our sites. On the basis of
the findings to date, we estimate that over the next three years environmental assessment and
remediation costs under TSCA, RCRA, CERCLA and comparable state statutes will total approximately
$14 million to $16 million, measured on an undiscounted basis. This estimate depends upon a number
of assumptions concerning the scope of remediation that will be required at certain locations and
the cost of the remedial measures. We are conducting environmental assessments and implementing a
variety of remedial measures that may result in increases or decreases in the total estimated
costs. At December 31, 2005, we had a balance of approximately $14 million for these estimated
costs recorded in current liabilities ($4.6 million) and other long-term liabilities ($9.5 million)
in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.

We consider prudently incurred environmental assessment and remediation costs and costs
associated with compliance with environmental standards to be recoverable through rates. To date,
we have been

63

Table of Contents   

permitted recovery of environmental costs, and it is our intent to continue seeking
recovery of such costs, through future rate filings. Therefore, these estimated costs of
environmental assessment and remediation have also been recorded as regulatory assets in Current
Assets: Other and Other Assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.

We have used lubricating oils containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and, although the
use of such oils was discontinued in the 1970s, we have discovered residual PCB contamination in
equipment and soils at certain gas compressor station sites. We have worked closely with the EPA
and state regulatory authorities regarding PCB issues, and we have a program to assess and
remediate such conditions where they exist. In addition, we commenced negotiations with certain
environmental authorities and other programs concerning investigative and remedial actions relative
to potential mercury contamination at certain gas metering sites. All such costs are included in
the $14 million to $16 million range discussed above.

We have been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at various Superfund and
state waste disposal sites. Based on present volumetric estimates and other factors, our estimated
aggregate exposure for remediation of these sites is less than $500,000. The estimated remediation
costs for all of these sites have been included in the environmental reserve discussed above.
Liability under CERCLA (and applicable state law) can be joint and several with other PRPs.
Although volumetric allocation is a factor in assessing liability, it is not necessarily
determinative; thus, the ultimate liability could be substantially greater than the amounts
described above.

We are also subject to the federal Clean Air Act and to the federal Clean Air Act Amendments
of 1990 (1990 Amendments), which added significantly to the existing requirements established by
the federal Clean Air Act. The 1990 Amendments required that the EPA issue new regulations, mainly
related to stationary sources, air toxics, ozone non-attainment areas and acid rain. During the
last few years we have been installing new emission control devices required for new or modified
facilities in areas designated as non-attainment by EPA. We operate some of our facilities in areas
of the country currently designated as non-attainment with the one-hour ozone standard. In April
2004, EPA designated eight-hour ozone non-attainment areas. We also operate facilities in areas of
the country now designated as non-attainment with the eight-hour ozone standard. Pursuant to
non-attainment area requirements of the 1990 Amendments, and proposed EPA rules designed to
mitigate the migration of ground-level ozone (NOx) in 22 eastern states, we are planning
installation of air pollution controls on existing sources at certain facilities in order to reduce
NOx emissions. We anticipate that additional facilities may be subject to increased controls within
five years. For many of these facilities, we are developing more cost effective and innovative
compressor engine control designs. Due to the developing nature of federal and state emission
regulations, it is not possible to precisely determine the ultimate emission control costs. In
March 2004 and June 2004, the EPA promulgated additional regulations regarding hazardous
air pollutants; these regulations may impose controls in addition to the controls described
above. The emission control additions required to comply with current federal Clean Air Act
requirements, the 1990 Amendments, the hazardous air pollutant regulations, and the individual
state implementation plans for NOx reductions are estimated to include costs in the range of $40
million to $45 million subsequent to 2005. EPA s recent designation of new non-attainment areas
will result in new federal and state regulatory action that may impact our operations. As a result,
the cost of additions to property, plant and equipment is expected to increase. We are unable at
this time to estimate with any certainty the cost of additions that may be required to meet new
regulations, although it is believed that some of those costs are included in the ranges discussed
above. Management considers costs associated with compliance with the environmental laws and
regulations described above to be prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business and,
therefore, recoverable through our rates.

64

Table of Contents   

Safety Matters 

Pipeline Integrity Regulations  We have developed an Integrity Management Plan that meets the
United States Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
final rule pursuant to the requirements of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002. In meeting
the Integrity Regulations, we have identified the high consequence areas, including a baseline
assessment and periodic reassessments to be completed within specified timeframes. Currently, we
estimate that the cost to perform required assessments and remediation will be between $275 million
and $325 million over the remaining assessment period of 2006 through 2012, a portion of which will
be expensed beginning January 1, 2006 (see Note 1). Management considers the costs associated with
compliance with the rule to be prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business and,
therefore, recoverable through our rates.

Aging Pipeline Infrastructure  While well maintained pipeline facilities can operate safely for
decades, there are challenges associated with operating and maintaining aging pipeline
infrastructure. Increased expenditures may be required to replace obsolete equipment and
deteriorating pipeline infrastructure, such as pipeline coating and cathodic protection facilities

Summary 

Litigation, arbitration, regulatory matters, environmental matters and safety matters are
subject to inherent uncertainties. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the
possibility of a material adverse impact on the results of operations in the period in which the
ruling occurs. Management, including internal counsel, currently believes that the ultimate
resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as a whole and after consideration of amounts accrued,
insurance coverage, recovery from customers or other indemnification arrangements, will not have a
materially adverse effect upon our future financial position.

Other Commitments 

Commitments for construction and gas purchases  We have commitments for construction and
acquisition of property, plant and equipment of approximately $126 million at December 31,
2005.We have commitments for gas purchases of approximately $271 million at December 31, 2005.

65

Table of Contents   

4. DEBT, FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS AND LEASES 

Long-term debt  At December 31, 2005 and 2004, long-term debt issues were outstanding as
follows (in thousands):

Aggregate minimum maturities (face value) applicable to long-term debt outstanding at
December 31, 2005 are as follows (in thousands):

2008:

There are no maturities applicable to long-term debt outstanding for the years 2006,
2007, 2009 and 2010.

No property is pledged as collateral under any of our long-term debt issues.

66

Table of Contents   

During May 2005, we, together with Williams and Northwest Pipeline Corporation, an
affiliate, amended and restated our $1.275 billion secured revolving credit facility (Credit
Agreement), which is available for borrowings and letters of credit, resulting in certain changes,
including the following:

added Williams Partners L.P. as a borrower for up to $75 million; 

provided Williams  guarantee for the obligations of Williams Partners L.P. under
this agreement; 

released certain Williams  midstream assets held as collateral and replaced them
with our common stock; and 

reduced commitment fees and margins. 

At December 31, 2005, letters of credit totaling $378 million, none of which are associated
with us, have been issued and no revolving credit loans were outstanding. Transco and Northwest
Pipeline each have access to $400 million under this facility to the extent not otherwise utilized
by Williams. Interest is calculated based on a choice of two methods: a fluctuating rate equal to
the facilitating bank s base rate plus an applicable margin or a periodic fixed rate equal to
LIBOR plus an applicable margin. We are required to pay a commitment fee (currently 0.325 %
annually) based on the unused portion of the facility. The applicable
margins and commitment fee are
based on the relevant borrower s senior unsecured long-term debt ratings.

On December 10, 2004, we issued $75 million of Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2008. Interest
is payable on January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each year, beginning on April 15,
2005. The notes bear interest at the three-month LIBOR rate plus 1.28% and will mature on April 15,
2008. The interest rate as of December 31, 2005 was 5.88%. Interest on the notes is reset on each
interest payment date. The notes are unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness and rank equally
with all of our other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The net
proceeds from this offering were used to repay a portion of $200 million of our 6 1/8% Senior Notes
that matured on January 15, 2005.

Restrictive covenants  At December 31, 2005, none of our debt instruments restrict the amount
of dividends distributable to WGP.

Lease obligations  Prior to December 23, 1998, we had a 20-year lease agreement for our
headquarters building (Williams Tower) which expired on March 29, 2004 (Williams Tower lease). On
December 23, 1998, we assigned and transferred to Laughton, L.L.C. (Laughton), an affiliate, all
our rights, title and interest in the Williams Tower lease and entered into an agreement to
sublease the premises from Laughton through March 29, 2003 (Williams Tower sublease). During 2003,
we entered into an agreement with Laughton to extend the Williams Tower sublease through March 29,
2004. All other terms of the Williams Tower lease were incorporated into the Williams Tower
sublease, including sublease agreements between us and other parties that also expired on March 29,
2004.

On October 23, 2003, we entered into a new lease agreement for space in the Williams Tower.
The lease term runs through March 31, 2014 with a one-time right to terminate on March 29, 2009.

67

Table of Contents   

The future minimum lease payments under our various operating leases, including the Williams
Tower lease are as follows (in thousands):

Our lease expense was $14.1 million in 2005, $12.7 million in 2004, and $12.6 million in
2003.

5. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 

Pension plans  We participate in noncontributory defined benefit pension plans with Williams
and its subsidiaries that provide pension benefits for our retired employees. Cash contributions
related to our participation in the plans totaled $14.0 million in 2005, $11.3 million in 2004 and
$13.4 million in 2003.

The allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities of Transco based on
estimated fair values resulted in the recording of an additional pension liability in 1995, for the
amount that the projected benefit obligation exceeded the plan assets. The remaining amount of
additional pension costs deferred at December 31, 2005 and 2004 is $4.6 million and $3.9 million,
respectively, and is expected to be recovered through future rates generally over the average
remaining service period for active employees.

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had recorded an additional minimum pension liability of $2.3
million and $1.6 million, respectively. As required by FERC accounting guidance, this balance was
recorded as a regulatory asset instead of accumulated other comprehensive income.

Postretirement benefits other than pensions  We participate in a plan with Williams and its
subsidiaries that provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for our retired
employees that were hired prior to January 1, 1996. The accounting for the plan anticipates future
cost-sharing changes to the plan that are consistent with Williams  expressed intent to increase
the retiree contribution level, generally in line with health care cost increases. Cash
contributions totaled $3.5 million in 2005, $2.4 million in 2004, and $0.5 million in 2003. We
recover the actuarially determined cost of postretirement benefits through rates that are set
through periodic general rate filings. Any differences between the annual actuarially determined
cost and amounts currently being recovered in rates are recorded as an adjustment to revenues and
collected or refunded through future rate adjustments. The amounts of postretirement benefits costs
deferred as a regulatory asset at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are $24.3 million and $26.6 million,
respectively, and are expected to be recovered through future rates generally over the average
remaining service period for active employees.

The allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities of Transco based on
estimated fair values resulted in the recording in 1995 of a postretirement benefits liability for
the amount that the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation exceeded the plan assets.

68

Table of Contents   

Defined contribution plan  Our employees participate in a Williams defined contribution plan.
We recognized compensation expense of $4.8 million, $4.4 million and $4.6 million in 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.

Employee stock-based awards  On May 16, 2002, Williams stockholders approved The Williams
Companies, Inc. 2002 Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The Plan provides for common-stock-based awards
to its employees and employees of its subsidiaries. Upon approval by the stockholders, all prior
stock plans were terminated resulting in no further grants being made from those plans.
However, options outstanding in those prior plans remain in those plans with their respective terms
and provisions.

The Plan permits the granting of various types of awards including, but not limited to, stock
options, restricted stock and deferred stock. Awards may be granted for no consideration other than
prior and future services or based on certain financial performance targets being achieved. The
purchase price per share for stock options may not be less than the market price of the underlying
stock on the date of grant. Stock options generally become exercisable after three years from the
date of grant and generally expire 10 years after grant.

On May 15, 2003, Williams  shareholders approved a stock option exchange program. Under this
program, eligible employees were given a one-time opportunity to exchange certain outstanding
options for a proportionately lesser number of options at an exercise price to be determined at the
grant date of the new options. Surrendered options were cancelled June 26, 2003 and replacement
options were granted on December 29, 2003. We did not recognize any expense pursuant to the stock
option exchange. However, for purposes of pro forma disclosures, we recognized additional expense
related to these new options. The remaining pro forma expense on the cancelled options was
amortized through 2004.

The following summary provides information about our employees  stock option activity related
to Williams common stock for 2005, 2004 and 2003 (options in thousands):

(1) 
       
     All of the 2003 stock options granted relate to the stock option exchange program
described above. 

(2) 
       
     Includes 1,856 options that were cancelled on June 26, 2003, under the stock option
exchange program described above. 

69

Table of Contents   

The following summary provides information about Williams common stock options that are
outstanding and exercisable by our employees at December 31, 2005 (options in thousands):

The estimated fair value at date of grant of options for Williams common stock granted in
2005 and 2004, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, is as follows:

In 2003 the stock options granted to Transco employees were solely related to the
employee stock option exchange described above. The weighted average fair value of these options is
$1.58, which is the difference in the fair value of the new options granted and the fair value of
the exchanged options. The assumptions used in the fair value calculation of the new options
granted were: 1) dividend yield of 0.4 %; 2) volatility of 50 %; 3) weighted average expected
remaining life of 3.4 years; and 4) weighted average risk free interest rate of 1.99 %.

Pro forma net income, assuming we had applied the fair-value method of SFAS No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  in measuring compensation cost beginning with 1997
employee stock-based awards, is disclosed under  Employee stock-based awards  in Note 1.

70

Table of Contents   

6 . INCOME TAXES 

Following is a summary of the provision for income taxes for 2005, 2004, and 2003 (in
thousands):

Following is a reconciliation of the provision for income taxes at the federal statutory
rate to the provision for income taxes (in thousands):

We provide for income taxes using the assets and liability method as required by SFAS No.
109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  During 2005, as a result of the reconciliation of our tax basis
and book basis assets and liabilities, we recorded a $3.0 million tax benefit adjustment to reduce
the overall deferred income tax liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

71

Table of Contents   

Significant components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2005
and 2004 are as follows (in thousands):

7 . FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

Fair value of financial instruments  The carrying amount and estimated fair values of our
financial instruments as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows (in thousands):

For cash and short-term financial assets (third-party notes receivable and advances to
affiliates) that have variable interest rates, the carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair
value due to the short maturity of those instruments. For long-term financial assets (long-term
receivables), the carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value because the interest rate
is a variable rate.

The fair value of our publicly traded long-term debt is valued using indicative year-end
traded bond market prices. Private debt is valued based on the prices of similar securities with
similar terms and credit ratings. At both December 31, 2005 and 2004, approximately 93 percent of
our long-term debt was publicly traded. We use the expertise of outside investment banking firms to
assist with the estimate of the fair value of our long-term debt.

Credit and market risk  As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had trade receivables (net of
allowance) of $87 million and $98 million, respectively. Our credit risk exposure in the event of

72

Table of Contents   

nonperformance by the other parties is limited to the face value of the receivables. We perform
ongoing credit evaluations of our customer s financial condition and require collateral from our
customers, if necessary. We have not historically experienced significant credit losses in
connection with our trade receivables.

As a participant in Williams  cash management program, we make advances to and receive
advances from Williams. Advances are stated at the historical carrying amounts. As of December 31,
2005 and 2004, we had advances to affiliates of $130 million and $303 million, respectively.
Advances to affiliates are due on demand. Williams has indicated that it currently believes that it
will continue to have the financial resources and liquidity to repay these advances. Prior to April
29, 2004, the advances were made to and from our parent company, WGP.

8 . TRANSACTIONS WITH MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND AFFILIATES 

Major Customers  In 2005, operating revenues received from Public Service Enterprise Group,
Piedmont Natural Gas Company, and Keyspan Corporation, our three major customers, were $112.2
million, $97.1 million, and $82.8 million respectively. In 2004, our three major customers were
Piedmont Natural Gas Company, PSEG Energy Resources   Trade, LLC, and Philadelphia Gas Works,
providing operating revenues of $168.3 million, $115.1 million, and $92.5 million, respectively. In
2003, our three major customers were PSEG Energy Resources   Trade, LLC, WPC, an affiliate, and
Philadelphia Gas Works providing operating revenues of $115.0 million, $109.1 million, and $97.5
million, respectively.

Affiliates  Included in our operating revenues for 2005, 2004, and 2003 are revenues received
from affiliates of $87.1 million, $119.3 million and $186.1 million, respectively. The rates
charged to provide sales and services to affiliates are the same as those that are charged to
similarly-situated nonaffiliated customers.

Through an agency agreement with us, WPC manages our jurisdictional merchant gas sales. For
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, included in our cost of sales is $5.5 million,
$14.3 million and $13.4 million, respectively, representing agency fees billed to us by WPC under
the agency agreement.

Included in our cost of sales for 2005, 2004, and 2003 is purchased gas cost from affiliates,
excluding the agency fees discussed above, of $75.7 million, $211.2 million and $222.4 million,
respectively. All gas purchases are made at market or contract prices.

We have long-term gas purchase contracts containing variable prices that are currently in the
range of estimated market prices. Our estimated purchase commitments under such gas purchase
contracts are not material to our total gas purchases. Furthermore, through the agency agreement
with us, WPC has assumed management of our merchant sales service and, as our agent, is at risk for
any above-spot-market gas costs that it may incur.

Also included in our cost of transportation is transportation expense of $1.6 million in 2003,
applicable to the transportation of gas by Texas Gas Transmission Corporation (Texas Gas), a former
affiliate. Texas Gas was sold by Williams on May 16, 2003.

Williams has a policy of charging subsidiary companies for management services provided by the
parent company and other affiliated companies. Included in our administrative and general expenses
for 2005, 2004, and 2003 were $50.6 million, $45.1 million and $24.5 million, respectively, for
such corporate expenses

73

Table of Contents   

charged by Williams and other affiliated companies. Management considers
the cost of these services to be reasonable.

Beginning in May 1995, Williams Field Services Company (WFS), an affiliated company, operated
our production area facilities pursuant to the terms of an operating agreement. In response to FERC
Order No. 2004, we terminated the operating agreement and effective June 1, 2004, we resumed operating
these facilities. Included in our operation and maintenance expenses for 2004 and 2003 are $15.5
million and $37.2 million, respectively, charged by WFS to operate our gas gathering facilities.

Effective June 1, 2004 and pursuant to an operating agreement, we serve as contract operator
on certain WFS facilities. Transco recorded reductions in operating expenses for services provided
to WFS for $7.5 million and $3.8 million in 2005 and 2004 respectively, under terms of the
operating agreement.

In April 2005, we sold our interest in certain gas pipeline and related facilities and
equipment, located in the Ship Shoal Area, Offshore Louisiana, to Williams Mobile Bay Producer
Services, L.L.C., an affiliated company, for $6.9 million. The sale of these assets was at book
value, and resulted in no gain or loss.

74

Table of Contents   

9 . QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

The following summarizes selected quarterly financial data for 2005 and 2004 (in thousands):

(1) 
       
     Includes a $14.2 million decrease to operating expenses resulting from a reversal of a
liability related to the 1999 Fuel Tracker. 

75

Table of Contents   

The following schedules reconcile the amounts as originally reported in our
Consolidated Statement of Income (in thousands):

76

Table of Contents   

77

Table of Contents   

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
(In thousands)

ITEM 9.  
       
      Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure.  

None.

ITEM 9A.  
       
      Controls and Procedures  

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d- 15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934)
(Disclosure Controls) was performed as of the end of the period covered by this report. This
evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our Senior Vice President and our Vice President and Treasurer. Through this evaluation
we identified two material weaknesses related to our natural gas inventory valuation accounting and
our accounting for transportation and exchange imbalances, as described below. Our Senior Vice
President and our Vice President and Treasurer have concluded that as a result of the material
weaknesses, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable assurance
level, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and were not
effective at a reasonable assurance level at December 31, 2004.

Our management, including our Senior Vice President and our Vice President and Treasurer, does
not expect that our Disclosure Controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no
matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that
the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect
the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered
relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation
of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any,
within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that
judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error
or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by
collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system
of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events,
and there can be no assurance

78

Table of Contents   

that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future
conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements
due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We monitor our Disclosure Controls and make
modifications as necessary; our intent in this regard is that the Disclosure Controls will be
modified as systems change and conditions warrant.

A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that
results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim
financial statements will not be prevented or detected.

In the first quarter of 2006, we identified a material weakness in internal control over
financial reporting associated with our natural gas inventory valuation accounting for the period
from June 2000 to December 2005. Specifically, the material weakness related to the calculation of
the weighted average cost of our natural gas inventory, which in turn affected the calculation of
fuel gains and losses, storage losses, and deferred cash-out gains and losses during that period.
In the first quarter of 2006, we corrected our valuation accounting for natural gas system
inventory, which resulted in the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for each of
the two years in the period ending December 31, 2004, and retained earnings at January 1, 2003. See
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
Note 2. Restatement in this Form 10-K.

During the fourth quarter of 2005, we identified as a material weakness in internal control
over financial reporting the absence of an effective control to identify to specific customers a
material amount of transportation and exchange imbalance volumes, primarily for the period April
2003 to December 2004. These natural gas volumes represent gas received in excess of amounts
delivered on our pipeline systems that have not yet been associated with specific transportation
contracts and related customers, and are recorded within Transportation and Exchange Gas Payables
in our consolidated balance sheet. Commencing in 2006, we will be performing analyses of
historical data pertaining to transportation and exchange imbalance volumes and utilizing newly
developed system reporting tools that will assist us in identifying the natural gas volumes
relative to 2003 and 2004 to specific transportation contracts and related customers.

In light of these material weaknesses, in preparing our consolidated financial statements for
inclusion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we performed additional valuations, analyses and
other post-closing procedures in an effort to ensure that the Company s consolidated financial
statements as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and for the three years in the period ending December
31, 2005 have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Accordingly, management believes that the financial statements included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K fairly present in all material respects our financial position, results of operations and
cash flows for the periods presented.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the most
recently completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B. Other Information 

None

79

Table of Contents   

PART III 

Since we meet the conditions set forth in General Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K,
the information required by Items 10, 11, 12, and 13 is omitted.

ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

Fees for professional services provided by our independent registered public accounting firm
in each of the last two fiscal years in each of the following categories are (in thousands):

Fees for audit services include fees associated with the annual audit, the reviews for our
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, the reviews for other SEC filings and accounting consultation.
Audit-related fees include other attest services.

As a wholly-owned subsidiary of Williams, we do not have a separate audit committee. The
Williams audit committee policies and procedures for pre-approving audit and non-audit services
will be filed with the Williams Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on or before April 10, 2006.

80

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 

81

Table of Contents   

3.  
       
      Exhibits:  

The following instruments are included as exhibits to this report. Those exhibits below
incorporated by reference herein are indicated as such by the information supplied in the
parenthetical thereafter. If no parenthetical appears after an exhibit, copies of the
instrument have been included herewith. 

(2)  
       
      Plan of acquisition, reorganization arrangement, liquidation or succession  

(3)  
       
      Articles of incorporation and by-laws  

(4)  
       
      Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including indentures  

82

Table of Contents   

1 
      Transco Energy Company Tran$tock Employee Stock Ownership Plan
(Transco Energy Company Registration Statement No. 33-11721) 

2 
      Lease Agreement, dated October 23, 2003, between Transco and
Transco Tower Limited, a Texas limited partnership as amended March 10, 2004,
March 11, 2004, May 10, 2004, and June 25, 2004 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Transco
Form 10-K filed March 30, 2005). 

3 
      U.S $1,000,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of May 3, 2004, among
The Williams Companies, Inc., Northwest Pipeline Corporation, Transcontinental Gas
Pipeline Corporation, as Borrowers, Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative Agent
and Collateral Agent, Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A., as Issuing Banks,
the banks named therein as Banks, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, The Bank of Nova Scotia, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc as
Co-Documentation Agents, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Banc of America
Securities LLC as Joint Lead Arrangers and Co-Book Runners (filed as Exhibit 10.4
to The Williams Companies, Inc. Form 10-Q filed May 6, 2004 Commission File Number
1-4174). 

4 
      Letter of Credit Commitment Increase Agreement dated August 4,
2004, by and among The Williams Companies, Inc., Citicorp USA in its capacity as
Agent under the Credit Agreements dated as of May 3, 2004 among the Borrower,
Northwest Pipeline Corporation, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, the
Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Banks and Issuing Banks party thereto and
Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to The Williams
Companies, Inc. Form 10-Q filed November 4, 2004 Commission File Number 1-4174). 

5 
      Revolving Credit Commitment Increase Agreement dated August 4,
2004, by and among The Williams Companies, Inc., Citicorp USA in its capacity as
Agent under the Credit Agreement dated as of May 3, 2004 among the Borrower,
Northwest Pipeline Corporation, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, the
Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Banks and Issuing Banks party thereto, the
Issuing Banks and Citicorp USA, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to The Williams
Companies, Inc. Form 10-Q filed November 4, 2004 Commission File Number 1-4174). 

6 
      Amendment Agreement dated as of October 19, 2004, among The
Williams Companies, Inc., Northwest Pipeline Corporation, Transcontinental Gas
Pipeline Corporation, as Borrowers, the banks, financial institutions and other
institutional  

83

Table of Contents   

lenders that are parties of the Credit Agreement dated as of May 3,
2004 among the Borrowers, the Banks, Citicorp USA, Inc., as agent and Citibank,
N.A. and Bank of America, N.A., as issuers of letters of credit under the Credit
Agreement, the Agent and the Issuing Banks (filed as Exhibit 10.29 to The Williams
Companies, Inc. Form 10-K filed March 11, 2005 Commission File Number 1-4174). 

7 
      U.S. $1,275,000,000 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as
of May 20, 2005 among The Williams Companies, Inc., Northwest Pipeline
Corporation, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, Williams Partner L.P., as
Borrowers, Citicorp USA, Inc. as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent,
Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. as Issuing Banks and The Banks Named
Herein as Banks (filed as Exhibit 1.1 to the Transco Form 8-K filed May 26, 2005). 

(23)  
       
      Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

(24)  
       
      Power of attorney with certified resolution  

(31)  
       
      Section 302 Certifications  

Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial
Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 . 

84

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized, on this 31st day of March 2006.

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE 

LINE CORPORATION 

(Registrant) 

By:

/s/ Jeffrey P. Heinrichs 

Jeffrey P. Heinrichs

Controller 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below on this 31st day of March 2006, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant
and in the capacities indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  

/s/ STEVEN J. MALCOLM*

Steven J. Malcolm

Chairman of the Board  

/s/ PHILLIP D. WRIGHT *

Phillip D.Wright

Director and Senior Vice President (Principal
Executive Officer) 

/s/ FRANK J. FERAZZI *

Director and Vice President 

Frank J. Ferazzi

/s/ RICHARD D. RODEKOHR*

Richard D. Rodekohr

Vice President and Treasurer (Principal Financial Officer) 

/s/ JEFFREY P. HEINRICHS *

Jeffrey P. Heinrichs

Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)  

By /s/ JEFFREY P. HEINRICHS *

Jeffrey P. Heinrichs

Attorney-in-fact 

85

<EX-23>
 2
 d34564exv23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23 

Exhibit (23)

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-3 No.
333-27311, Form S-3 No. 333-02155, Form S-4 No. 333-101788, and Form S-4 No. 333-72982) of
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation and in the related prospectuses of our report dated
March 20, 2006, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
for the year ended December 31, 2005.

/s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP 

Houston, Texas 
March 28, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 3
 d34564exv24.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY WITH CERTIFIED RESOLUTION

exv24 

Exhibit (24)

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that each of the undersigned individuals, in their capacity as
a director or officer, or both, as hereinafter set forth below their signature, of TRANSCONTINENTAL
GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation ( Transco ), does hereby constitute and appoint
RICHARD D. RODEKOHR AND JEFFREY P. HEINRICHS their true and lawful attorneys and each of them (with
full power to act without the other) their true and lawful attorneys for them and in their name and
in their capacity as a director or officer, or both, of Transco, as hereinafter set forth below
their signature, to sign Transco s Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and any and all amendments thereto or all
instruments necessary or incidental in connection therewith; and

THAT the undersigned Transco does hereby constitute and appoint RICHARD D. RODEKOHR AND
JEFFREY P. HEINRICHS its true and lawful attorneys and each of them (with full power to act without
the other) its true and lawful attorney for it and in its name and on its behalf to sign said Form
10-K and any and all amendments thereto and any and all instruments necessary or incidental in
connection therewith.

Each of said attorneys shall have full power of substitution and resubstitution, and said
attorneys or any of them or any substitute appointed by any of them hereunder shall have full power
and authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of each of the undersigned, in any and
all capacities, every act whatsoever requisite or necessary to be done in the premises, as fully to
all intents and purposes as each of the undersigned might or could do in person, the undersigned
hereby ratifying and approving the acts of said attorneys or any of them or of any such substitute
pursuant hereto.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this instrument, all as of the
1 st  day of March, 2006.

/s/ Phillip D. Wright

/s/ Richard D. Rodekohr 

Phillip D. Wright

Richard D. Rodekohr 

Senior Vice President and Director

Vice President and Treasurer 

(Principal Financial Officer)

(Principal Executive Officer) 

/s/ Jeffrey P. Heinrichs       
Jeffrey P. Heinrichs 
Controller 
(Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/ Steven J. Malcolm

/s/ Frank J. Ferazzi 

Steven J. Malcolm

Frank J. Ferazzi 

Director

Director 

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION 

By

/s/ Richard D. Rodekohr 

Richard D. Rodekohr 

Vice President and 

Treasurer 

ATTEST:

/s/ Brian K. Shore

Brian K. Shore

Secretary

Exhibit (24)

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION

I, the undersigned, Brian K. Shore, Secretary of TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION, a
Delaware company (hereinafter called the  Company ), do hereby certify that pursuant to Section
141(f) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the Board of Directors of this Corporation
unanimously consented, as of March 1, 2006, to the following:

RESOLVED that the Chairman of the Board, the Senior Vice President or
any Vice President of the Company be, and each of them hereby is, authorized
and empowered to execute a Power of Attorney for use in connection with the
execution and filing, for and on behalf of the Company, under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.

I further certify that the foregoing resolution has not been modified, revoked or
rescinded and is in full force and effect.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of
TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION this 1st day of March, 2006.

/s/ Brian K. Shore 

Brian K. Shore 

Secretary 

CORPORATE SEAL 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 d34564exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w1 

Exhibit (31)-1

SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION 

I, Phillip D. Wright, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line
Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)), for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by the report that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006

By:

/s/Phillip D. Wright 

Phillip D. Wright 

Senior Vice President 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 d34564exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w2 

Exhibit (31)-2

SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION 

I, Richard D. Rodekohr, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line
Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)), for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by the report that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006

By:

/s/ Richard D. Rodekohr 

Richard D. Rodekohr 

Vice President and Treasurer 

(Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 6
 d34564exv32.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

exv32 

Exhibit (32)

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), each of the undersigned hereby certifies, in
his capacity as an officer of the Company, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to  
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to his knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ Phillip D. Wright

Phillip D. Wright

Senior Vice President

March 31, 2006

/s/ Richard D. Rodekohr

Richard D. Rodekohr

Vice President and Treasurer

March 31, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.

The foregoing certification is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission as an
exhibit to the Report and shall not be considered filed as part of the Report.

</EX-32>

