<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_911149_0001104659-06-021093_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1475059</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>156979</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>975279</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>32</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021093.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331124103
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021093
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MICRO COMPONENT TECHNOLOGY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000911149
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	INSTRUMENTS FOR MEAS & TESTING OF ELECTRICITY & ELEC SIGNALS [3825]
		IRS NUMBER:				410985960
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-22384
		FILM NUMBER:		06726849

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2340 W COUNTY RD C
		CITY:			ST PAUL
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55113-2528
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6516974000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2340 W COUNTY RD C
		CITY:			ST PAUL
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55113-2528

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 KmFJxvpRL0KpKd6mIOlhBU7b3UnqLOK1OjomR/zbwLqFLifJU1zcjhWtBDFR7v0p
 6GdK+M5Xf28aKzFdPqMpZg==

 0001104659-06-021093.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-2044_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE   

   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

For the year ended
December 31, 2005   

OR   

o     
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE   

   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

Commission file number 0-22384   

MICRO COMPONENT TECHNOLOGY, INC.   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Minnesota   

41-0985960   

(State or other jurisdiction of  

(I.R.S. Employer  

incorporation or organization)  

Identification No.)  

2340 West County Road C, St. Paul, Minnesota 55113   

  (Address of principal executive offices)  

  Registrant s telephone number, including area code   (651)
697-4000    

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   None    

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  

   COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE    

  (Title of Class)  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act. Yes    o   No      

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes    o   No      

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes       No   o  

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this Form 10-K.      

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  

Large
  Accelerated Filer   o  

Accelerated Filer   o  

Non-Accelerated Filer      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act). Yes    o   No      

The aggregate market
value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 25,
2005 (the business day of the Registrant s most recently completed second
fiscal quarter), was $6.1 million based upon the closing price of $0.24 on that
date for the shares.  

Number
of shares outstanding of the Registrant s Common stock, as of     March 15, 2006,     is 27,215,361.  

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

  Portions of the Registrant s Definitive Proxy Statement for
the annual meeting of stockholders (the  Proxy Statement ) to be filed within
120 days after the Registrant s fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, are
incorporated by reference into Part III.  

MICRO COMPONENT TECHNOLOGY, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

TABLE OF
CONTENTS   

PART I    

ITEM   

1.   

Business   

ITEM   

1A.   

Risk Factors   

ITEM   

2.   

Properties   

ITEM   

3.   

Legal Proceedings   

ITEM   

4.   

Submission
  of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

PART II    

ITEM   

5.   

Market
  for Registrant s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
  Purchases of Equity Securities   

ITEM   

6.   

Selected
  Consolidated Financial Data   

ITEM   

7.   

Management s
  Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition   

ITEM   

7A.   

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

ITEM   

8.   

Consolidated
  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

ITEM   

9.   

Changes in
  and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

ITEM    

9A.   

Controls and
  Procedures   

ITEM    

9B.    

Other Information   

PART III    

ITEM   

10.   

Directors
  and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

ITEM   

11.   

Executive
  Compensation   

ITEM   

12.   

Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
  and Related Stockholders Matters   

ITEM   

13.   

Certain
  Relationships and Related Transactions   

ITEM   

14.   

Principal
  Accountant Fees and Services   

ITEM   

15.   

Exhibits and
  Financial Statement Schedules   

Index to
  Consolidated Financial Statements    

Signatures and
  Certifications   

2  

PART I    

This Form 10-K
contains certain forward-looking statements. For this purpose, any statements
contained in this Form 10-K that are not statements of historical fact may be
deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, words
such as  may,   will,   expect,   believe,   anticipate,   estimate  or  continue 
or comparable terminology are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These
statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties, and
actual results may differ materially depending on a variety of factors,
including those set forth in the section below entitled  Risk Factors.          

ITEM 1. Business    

General   

Unless
the context otherwise requires, references in this Report on Form 10-K to  MCT ,
  We ,  Us ,  Registrant  and the  Company  refer to Micro Component
Technology, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. MCT was incorporated
in Minnesota on June 20, 1972, was reorganized as a Delaware corporation
on June 28, 1983 and reorganized as a Minnesota corporation on November 6,
1996. MCT has three wholly owned active operating subsidiaries, Micro Component
Technology Asia Pte. Ltd., ( MCT Asia ), MCT Asia (Penang) Sdn. Bhd., ( Penang ),
and MCT Philippines, Inc ( Philippines ). Our principal executive offices are
located at 2340 West County Road C, St. Paul, Minnesota 55113 and our telephone
number at that location is (651) 697-4000.  

Our trademarks
used in this Form 10-K are:      MCT     ,      Infinity Systems     ,
     Aseco     ,
    Tapestr   y      
,      Smart
Solutions     ,      SmartMark           ,     SmartSort         ,    S martTrak          ,      Isocut     ,
     MCT
5100     ,      MCT 7632     ,      S-170     
and      S-130     .
All other trademarks or trade names referred to in this Form 10-K are the
property of their respective owners.  

Background   

On January 31,
2000, we completed our acquisition of Aseco Corporation, a Massachusetts based
manufacturer of handling equipment. The acquisition was structured as a
stock-for-stock purchase and was accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting. The purchase price totaled $24.0 million, consisting of 2.6 million
shares of MCT common stock valued at $22.5 million issued to former Aseco
shareholders and $1.5 million of acquisition-related costs.  

On April 11,
2000, our Board of Directors elected to change our fiscal year end to a year
ending on December 31, effective December 31, 1999. Our interim
thirteen-week quarters each end on a Saturday.  

On August 16,
2000, we issued 3,000,000 shares of common stock, and on September 18,
2000, we issued 290,000 shares of common stock, in a public stock offering. Proceeds
from the offering totaled $19.7 million.  

On December 24,
2001, we issued $10.0 million of 10% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes due
in 2006 to a group of accredited investors. These Notes are convertible into
MCT common stock. The conversion price was initially $2.60 per share. The Notes
are redeemable by MCT at any time after January 3, 2004 as long as the
market price of our common stock equals or exceeds 150% of the conversion price.
Proceeds of the Notes, net of debt issuance costs, totaled $9.2 million. Holders
of the Notes have standard registration rights if they convert the Notes to
common stock.  

On March 7,
2003 and March 26, 2003, pursuant to a private equity placement with a group
of accredited investors, we issued a total of 3,166,869 shares of common stock,
which resulted in net proceeds to us of approximately $1.1 million. Stock
issuance costs associated with this offering totaled approximately $241,000. As
part of this offering, we also issued warrants to purchase 253,350 shares
of common stock that have a term of five years with an exercise price of $0.43
per share.  

3  

On June 30,
2003, we completed the restructuring of $9.29 million, or 92.9%, of our 10%
Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes, wherein the participating noteholders
agreed to accept stock in lieu of cash for the next four semi-annual interest
payment dates beginning June 30, 2003 through December 31, 2004, and
we agreed to reduce the conversion price to $1.00 per share. On February 25,
2005, we completed a second amendment to the agreement with the holders of our
10% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes, wherein holders of 80% of the
remaining Notes, representing $2.9 million, agreed to continue to accept stock
in payment of interest for the remaining four interest payments through December 24,
2006. The conversion price was then reduced to $0.85 per share. On April 29,
2005, we completed another financing transaction with Laurus. As a result of
the new financing with Laurus, the conversion price for all of the Noteholders
who accepted the prior restructuring agreements was at that time reduced to
$0.61 per share.  

On March 9,
2004, we completed a $5.0 million financing transaction with an institutional
lender, Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. ( Laurus ), secured by all of the assets of
the Company. The financing included a $3.0 million working capital line of
credit and a $2.0 million long-term note. The notes were partially convertible
into shares of our common stock. In connection with the transaction, we issued
to Laurus a seven-year warrant to purchase 400,000 shares of common stock at
exercise prices ranging from $2.30 to $2.88 per share. The secured loan in
existence at that time with a prior lender was terminated.  

On
January 28, 2005, we completed an amendment to the financing agreement
with Laurus to defer payments on the long-term convertible note. As part of
this amendment, the conversion prices for both notes were reduced. We also
issued Laurus at that time a seven-year warrant to purchase 150,000 shares of
common stock at $.67 per share.  

On April 29,
2005, we completed another financing transaction with Laurus in which we
borrowed an additional $2.5 million, and which was convertible into shares of
common stock. We also issued Laurus at that time an option to purchase
2,556,651 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $.01 per share. We
received net proceeds of approximately $2.4 million at the closing.  

On
February 17, 2006, we again restructured the financing with Laurus, and
increased the total maximum secured indebtedness with Laurus to $9.25 million. The
restructured financing now includes a $5.25 million term note. Interest is
payable monthly on the term note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. Beginning 360
days after closing, we are required to make monthly payments equal to 1/60th of
the principal amount until three years after the closing, at which time the
entire remaining principal and accrued interest is due and payable in full. The
note is non-convertible. In addition to the $5.25 million note, the working
capital line of credit was increased from $3.0 million to $4.0 million, and
made non-convertible. The note is payable in full on March 8, 2008. Interest
is payable monthly on the note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. The existing $1.2
million over-advance in excess of the borrowing base on the working capital
line of credit was extended until April 30, 2007. However, commencing on December 1,
2006, the over-advance is to be reduced by $200,000 each month. The Company
also issued Laurus a 10-year option to purchase 2,500,000 shares at an exercise
price of $.01 per share. The shares issuable upon exercise of the option have
standard registration rights. As a result of the new financing with Laurus, the
conversion price for all of the Noteholders who accepted the prior
restructuring agreements has been reduced to $0.56 per share.  

Introduction   

We are a leading supplier of integrated automation solutions
for the global semiconductor test and assembly industry. We offer complete and
comprehensive equipment automation solutions for the test, laser mark and mark
inspect processes for the back-end of the semiconductor manufacturing process
that significantly improve our customers  productivity, yield and throughput. Our
solutions include our series of integrated Smart Solutions, automated test
handlers, factory automation software and equipment integration services. Our
customers include many leading semiconductor companies such as Microchip
Technologies, Analog Devices, National Semiconductor, Phillips Semiconductor,
Cypress Semiconductor and ST Microelectronics and many of the leading back-end
contract test and assembly companies including Amkor and NS Electronics Bangkok.
We believe we have one of the world s largest installed bases of handlers used
to test semiconductor devices.  

4  

Semiconductor
devices are becoming more complex and are characterized by shrinking semiconductor
device sizes, miniaturized packaging, increased circuitry and larger wafer
sizes. These trends have led manufacturers to seek new tools and new solutions
to meet their demanding requirements. We believe that our complete offering of
equipment automation products and services allows manufacturers to effectively
address evolving process technologies and packaging formats, such as QFN (quad
flat packages with no external leads) and miniaturized packaging.  

Beginning
in 1999, we broadened our strategy from that of a test handler manufacturer to
also a provider of comprehensive equipment automation solutions for the
back-end of the semiconductor manufacturing process. Consistent with this new
strategy, we completed two acquisitions. Our acquisition of Infinity Systems in
June 1999, a company involved in the development of factory automation
software, was integral to the development of our integrated equipment Smart
Solutions product suite. In January 2000, we completed our acquisition of
Aseco, which provided us with increased machine vision and robotics engineering
technology critical to the handling of strips and wafers.  

Industry
Overview   

The semiconductor device industry had grown tremendously over
the ten-year period ending in the year 2000. This growth had been driven by
traditional semiconductor markets like personal computers and data processing,
and more recently by the proliferation of semiconductor devices in
telecommunications, wireless communications, and consumer electronics, as well
as Internet infrastructure equipment. However, the semiconductor capital
equipment market, in which we compete, has historically been subject to
cyclical periods of high growth and contraction. In the fourth quarter of 2000,
the semiconductor industry went into a sharp downturn, which intensified and
continued through the majority of 2003, resulting in a significant adverse
impact on our business. In late 2003, worldwide semiconductor bookings began
showing signs of stabilization and demand for our products increased during
this period and continued through the first half of 2004. However, in the third
quarter of 2004 the markets again retracted, impacting our financial results
through the end of 2004 and continuing through 2005. At this juncture, the
return to sustained market growth cannot be predicted in the short term.  

The
process of semiconductor manufacturing is one of the most complicated and
logistically challenging manufacturing processes in the world. An advanced
semiconductor device can travel thousands of miles and undergo as many as 500
production steps before completion. The semiconductor device manufacturing
process is traditionally divided into two parts: the front-end, which includes
wafer fabrication from raw materials to a finished wafer; and the back-end,
which includes semiconductor device assembly, test, and packaging. Front-end
and back-end manufacturing facilities are expected to run 24 hours a day, 7
days a week to provide the productivity needed to meet the requirements of the
market.  

Initially,
semiconductor manufacturers concentrated their efforts on improving the more
expensive front-end wafer fabrication process. They improved the front-end by
first automating the individual production tools and more recently by
integrating the various production tools through factory automation software. Tool
automation was significant because it replaced most human handling of the
wafers with robotics, resulting in dramatically increased yields. Factory
automation software is significantly improving productivity, yield and
throughput in the front-end by utilizing powerful production scheduling,
materials handling and process tool control software.  

Automation
and process improvement of back-end tools and facilities has severely lagged
the front-end. Over the last several years, manufacturers began to seek
automation and process solutions for the back-end production process. This is
because, historically, the cost of back-end assembly and test processes was
only a small portion of the total semiconductor device cost and traditional
processes were able to provide adequate throughput. Today the cost of back-end
assembly and test per semiconductor device often equals or exceeds the wafer
fabrication cost per semiconductor device. We believe that as manufacturers
seek to raise the standards of yield, productivity, throughput and cost
reduction in the back-end, the growth rate of the newly developing back-end
automation market could increase rapidly.  

5  

Traditional
Semiconductor Manufacturing Process   

Semiconductor
devices arrive for test in strip or wafer format, with each strip or wafer
containing multiple individual devices. Until recently, most semiconductor
manufacturers believed it was necessary to test individual semiconductor
devices after they were singulated, or cut from the strip or wafer. However, as
semiconductor device and package sizes have shrunk, they have become extremely
difficult to handle individually. For example, manufacturers  chip scale packages,
or CSPs, are nearly the same size as the die they package. Traditional handling
tools do not have the precision to adequately address the various semiconductor
device size and chip-scale packaging technologies demanded by manufacturers. As
a result, handling tools designed for singulated processes have become a bottleneck
to throughput.  

Manufacturers
now acknowledge that post-test singulation can be done, in certain package
formats, without damage to the device. This understanding permits manufacturers
to process, handle, and test multiple devices while still in strip or wafer
format. Strip handling increases process flexibility by permitting the handling
and testing of a variety of packages, substrates and semiconductor device
sizes. In addition, strip handling significantly increases throughput by
reducing the number of process steps and by allowing the tester to easily test
multiple semiconductor devices in parallel. We believe that as manufacturers
seek to increase productivity, yield and throughput, they will increasingly
adopt strip test processing. Consequently, we believe strip test processing
technology will be critical to any back-end automation strategy and will
facilitate re-tooling of many back end processes.  

In
implementing broader automation strategies in the back-end, manufacturers face
other significant challenges besides the development of strip processing tools.
For example, production tools in the back-end historically have not
communicated well with one another, if at all, and the transitions between
production steps have not been integrated. This lack of communication and
integration has prevented back-end manufacturers from realizing many of the
benefits of factory automation and has prevented the collection of critical
process data.  

Our
Solution   

We
seek to provide our customers comprehensive equipment automation solutions for
their test and assembly processes. By deploying our products and services, our
customers are able to improve their production yields, factory throughput, tool
productivity and utilization while reducing product cost. The key components of
our solution are:  

Tapestry series automated strip handler, 

Smart Solutions integrated equipment product series, 

Infinity Systems factory automation software and equipment integration
services, and 

Line of traditional test handlers for singulated processes. 

Our solution provides the
following benefits to our customers:  

Flexibility to address new form factors, including wafers and
strips.    We believe that our Tapestry series of
handlers are among the first handlers capable of processing semiconductor
devices in strip or wafer formats. Tapestry provides increased flexibility,
permitting the handling and testing of a variety of packages, substrates and
semiconductor device types. Depending on the application, we believe that our
Tapestry handler s throughput capability is three to ten times greater than
existing singulated handling options available today. 

Ability to collect critical process data.    Our
Smart Solutions equipment products utilize our factory automation software to
provide both the hardware and software necessary to accurately track important
yield events in the test and assembly portion of the back-end process. We use
state-of-the-art technology including machine vision to accurately track all
semiconductor devices as they travel through the test and assembly processes. This
machine vision technology is not only critical to the precise positioning of
strips, but also enables our software to generate critical process data. This
information, together with yield information obtained in the assembly process  

6  

and the front-end
facility, can provide real-time data on the entire semiconductor manufacturing
process for each wafer, giving manufacturers the information they need to
improve their processes and increase their yields.  

Deployment of integrated, comprehensive solutions.    Our
suite of equipment automation tools, software products and services
addresses the varied automation needs of individual back-end manufacturing
facilities. Our factory automation software has the ability to integrate
production tools from various manufacturers into one total solution. This
allows our customers to fulfill a significant portion of their test and
assembly automation needs through a single supplier, thereby simplifying
training, maintenance, capacity expansion and supplier accountability. 

Worldwide service and support engineering.    We
provide worldwide service and support engineering to our customers as part of
the purchase of all of our products, which includes comprehensive installation
support. As our products have expanded to offer greater functionality, we have
provided application engineering support so that our customers can take
advantage of these advances to improve their processes. 

Strategy   

Our
objective is to be the leading supplier for the newly developing market of
automated solutions for the semiconductor test and assembly market. Key
elements of our strategy include:  

Providing comprehensive automated solutions.    Today,
we provide equipment automation solutions for the test and assembly portion of
the semiconductor manufacturing process, including test, laser mark, mark
inspect, and other processes. In addition, we are expanding our automation
solutions to include equipment integration solutions compatible with products
from a greater number of other equipment manufacturers such as trim, form and
singulation system providers. We have enhanced the software component of our
automation solutions by adding data analysis and report generating capabilities
to increase our customer s ability to improve their manufacturing process. In
the future we plan to expand the Smart Solution suite of products to
handle other processes within the semiconductor test and assembly area. 

Capitalizing on emerging chip scale packaging, or CSP, process
development.    Our Smart Solutions and Tapestry products
already meet initial chip scale package process requirements through strip
handling. However, the vast numbers of new chip scale packages, recently
introduced, have imposed additional requirements on semiconductor test and
assembly processes, including the ability to perform multi-pass testing
and stacked die testing. As a leader in providing equipment automation
solutions that address chip scale packaging technologies, we are continuing
development of next-generation handling and equipment automation solutions for
advanced semiconductor device packaging. 

Strengthening key customer relationships.    Our
customers include many of the world s leading providers of semiconductor
devices as well as major third-party test and assembly companies. We expect
that our customers will look to us to help resolve their process as well as
automation problems throughout the back-end. As we solve our customers  diverse
needs, we will deepen our present customer relationships and also build our
knowledge base so that we can develop similar relationships with others in the
semiconductor manufacturing industry. 

Leveraging our strong sales and service capability.    We
predominantly sell our products through our direct sales force and have
established sales and service offices in the world s major centers of
semiconductor manufacturing including Penang, Malaysia, Singapore and in the
Philippines. In addition to our sales and service engineers, we have several
applications engineers in key customer support locations. We have placed
software engineers in several Asian locations to directly support Infinity
Systems  pursuit of factory automation software sales. 

Continuing to develop and support existing singulated test handling
solutions and products.    We believe that we have one of
the largest installed bases of traditional test handlers in the world. We
intend to support our customers who use singulated test handling with new
product introductions for specialty applications. 

7  

Products   

Automation
Products     

Smart Solutions     .    Our Smart Solutions equipment suite of products, once
integrated with a tester, are designed to automate the entire test process from
the point where the semiconductor devices have been packaged, through test,
laser mark, inspection, singulation and sort, to the point of shipment to the
customer. Our Smart Solutions product family offers semiconductor manufacturers
greater flexibility, yield and throughput. These products are designed to meet
the back-end semiconductor manufacturer s demand for greater production
efficiency, lower cost of test and manufacturing flexibility. The following
table sets forth our key automation product offerings by category, date
introduced and application.  

Automation
  Product Category   

Product Name   

Introduced   

Applications   

Smart Solutions  

Tapestry SC  

July 2003  

A next
  generation handling system for semiconductor devices that are in strip or
  wafer package formats.  

Tapestry PH1  

February 1999  

A next
  generation handling system for semiconductor devices that are in strip or
  wafer package formats.  

SmartMark SC  

September 2004  

A next
  generation high-speed laser marker for integration with strip handling or for
  marking strips with 2D codes.  

SmartTrak  

May 2000  

Software
  management system providing a map with information about each semiconductor
  device in the strip.  

Automation Software  

Infinity Systems
  Software Solutions  

Acquired in June 1999  

Manufacturing
  software control systems for semiconductor assembly and test plants including
  equipment integration through overall factory and corporate information
  systems integration.  

Our
Smart Solutions equipment product family was introduced to meet the anticipated
evolution of back-end manufacturing from singulated handling to strip
processing through the final stages of assembly and electrical test. Additionally,
our Smart Solutions products are designed with electronic strip mapping
capability as a cornerstone. As high-density semiconductor strips with tiny
chip scale packages become the standard, electronic strip mapping addresses the
problem of manually tracking individual semiconductor devices within the strip.
The new Smart Solutions systems provide customers enhanced performance in
either stand-alone or integrated assembly lines. The current average selling
price for Smart Solutions products vary from $300,000 for a single module and
can approach approximately $1.0 million for a fully configured system that
includes all of the components.  

Tapestry
SC, introduced in July 2003, is our next generation system for
semiconductor devices that are in strip format. The system is targeted to meet
the growing need for lower cost of ownership, greater flexibility, easier use,
increased process control, faster set-up and changeover times. The Tapestry SC
has several optional features and can be targeted at several different applications
with the potential to add additional options and / or capability at a later
time. The Tapestry SC is compatible and complementary to the Tapestry PH-1.  

Tapestry,
our strip handling system introduced in February 1999, is the flagship of
the Smart Solution product family. Tapestry is a versatile, high volume,
parallel test handling and thermal conditioning system for semiconductor
devices that are in strip format. Thermal conditioning is required to ensure
that a semiconductor device can operate normally in a wide range of
temperatures. Tapestry can condition devices at temperatures ranging from  40
degrees centigrade to +130 degrees centigrade. The system is capable of
handling fine pitch chip scale packages as well as traditional leaded
semiconductor devices in strip format. Using standard industry interfaces, the
system is designed to function as a stand-alone system, or can be integrated
into an in-line process with our other Smart Solution products or equipment of
other manufacturers.  

SmartMark
SC, introduced in September 2004, is our next generation high-speed laser
marker for integration with strip handling or for marking strips with 2D codes.
This system takes advantage of the same base system that is used with our
Tapestry SC, allowing for lower costs of production and a common platform of
spare parts for our customers, thus lowering overall customer costs.  

8  

Our suite of
Smart Solution equipment products includes additional modules to assist companies
in automating the back-end of the semiconductor manufacturing process using the
new strip format. These include the input/output devices for both slotted and
stacked magazines used with strips.  

Automation Software.    Infinity Systems Software
Solutions provide highly sophisticated systems integration services to the
semiconductor test and assembly industry. Infinity Systems  solutions assist
customers in creating either new manufacturing environments or implementing new
methods and control systems in existing ones. These installations allow
previously isolated stand-alone equipment to exchange information with other
equipment and provide for remote monitoring and control of these systems. Our
engineering experience, efficient software development process, strong project
management and our understanding of semiconductor handling systems allow us to
assist customers in specifying equipment behavior and software interfaces as a
proactive component of the design and procurement process. 

Singulated
Handling Products     

We
also provide more traditional singulated handling products utilizing
gravity-feed technology. As a result of our shift in product strategy to
strip-based solutions, we will build our singulated products only when a sales
order exists and if technology permits. We continue to support these products
for our installed base of systems for consumable and spare parts.  

Other
Products and Services     

We provide service and spare parts for all of our current and
many of our discontinued products. We have also done significant business in
support services for a semiconductor device tester that is still widely used
but that was last manufactured by us in 1993.  

Research and Development   

As an
important element of our business strategy, we work closely with our customers
to develop new products and enhancements of existing products to meet the
evolving needs of the test and assembly market, particularly with respect to
emerging semiconductor devices, while striving to provide the lowest cost of
test. These efforts, historically focused on test handler products, have
resulted in the successful introduction of several new product platforms,
including our Tapestry family of products including the PH1, SC (ambient and
elevated temperature versions) strip testing and associated handling modules,
and our SmartMark and SmartMark SC products.  

Although
we rely primarily on our internal engineering capabilities to develop new
products and enhance existing products, we also utilize contract services to
enhance our technical capabilities or temporarily expand our resources. In
addition, we work closely with several manufacturers of products that are
incorporated into our products or are complementary to our products when we
believe a higher quality, lower cost product would result.  

An
ongoing goal of our research and development activities is to reduce the time
required to develop new products and bring them to market. As the back-end
process becomes increasingly automated and complex, the development of improved
software for our products becomes increasingly important.  

Our research and development expenses were $2.0 million,
$2.8 million, and $2.4 million in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively.  Our combined resources totaled 21 employees and contractors
in research and development, or approximately 26% of our entire workforce, at December 31,
2005. We expect research and development expenses to remain fairly flat in 2006
relative to 2005 levels, subject to mandated increases due to customer requirements
for system related products.  

9  

Customers   

Our customers include many of the leading manufacturers of
semiconductor devices, as well as test and assembly companies, in the United
States, Europe and Asia. In recent years, our significant customers have
shifted from the major semiconductor manufacturers to test and assembly
companies, corresponding to the increased utilization of test and assembly
companies by the major semiconductor manufacturers. Microchip Technologies,
Maxim Tech, and Kestronics accounted for 33%, 11% and 10% of our net sales,
respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2005. Analog Devices,
Microchip Technologies and Amkor Technology, Inc. accounted for 28%, 20%
and 19% of our net sales, respectively, in the year ended December 31,
2004. Microchip Technologies and Analog Devices accounted for 32% and 9% of our
net sales, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2003.  

Our
customers tend to limit the number of qualified equipment vendors they purchase
from in order to gain the efficiencies of standardization across their
production process. We therefore expend substantial efforts to maintain our
relationships with our existing major customers to increase the likelihood that
they will continue to select our products for their future generations of
semiconductor devices.  

Marketing,
Sales and Worldwide Support   

We
market our products primarily to semiconductor manufacturers and third party
test and assembly companies through our own sales force and in selected markets
through independent sales representatives and distributors. Our automation
solutions, however, are marketed directly by our employees to the key personnel
at customers and potential customers who are in charge of capital equipment for
the entire back-end. These sales frequently involve major decisions by the
customer as to the configuration and operation of its entire back-end operation.
Consequently, the sales cycle for Smart Solutions products may be longer
than for our traditional handler products as the average order amount is
generally larger.  

We
augment our sales efforts with direct customer support/service engineers and
application engineers based in the field. These engineers are specialists in
our product portfolio and partner with our customers to help determine product
requirements. Our service engineers install our equipment and train the
customers  operators and maintenance technicians on the proper use and care of
our equipment. Our application engineers help identify emerging markets for new
products.  

We
established a presence in Asia more than 20 years ago, where we operate through
our subsidiaries with offices in Singapore and Penang, Malaysia. To supplement
the region s sales and service coverage, we use sales representative companies
and distributors in Korea, Taiwan and China. We also established an office in
the Philippines to provide better sales and service support and the
establishment of a software development group. We have stationed service engineers
in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines for rapid response to
customer needs in Asia.  

Manufacturing
and Suppliers   

In
2002, we began the transition of our manufacturing operations from our St.
Paul, Minnesota facility to Penang, Malaysia. This was completed in early 2003.
It is our belief that our new Malaysian operations will provide cost savings as
well as an increased presence in our prime sales geographical area. We combine
proprietary software and components developed in our facilities with components
and subassemblies obtained from outside suppliers. We have established
relationships with suppliers in Malaysia which allow us to out-source
manufacturing of our components to a number of different suppliers. We do not
maintain any long-term supply agreements with any of our key suppliers.  

Competition   

The
semiconductor device testing and assembly equipment industry is highly
competitive, and the market for our automation products and services is
expected to become more competitive. We face substantial competition   

10  

throughout the world
primarily from manufacturers in Asia, the United States, Europe and Japan. The
companies that we are aware of that currently offer a production grade strip
handling solution comparable to our Tapestry products are Fico BV, ASM
International, Electroglas, Tesec, Rasco, Multitest and Cohu, Inc., whose
products were introduced between 1995 and 2005.  

The
principal elements of competition in our markets include throughput capability,
quality, reliability, price, product performance, customer service and support,
financial strength, versatility and the ability to deliver on schedule. Although
we believe that we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors, new
product introductions by our competitors could cause a decline in sales or loss
of market acceptance of our existing products. If competitors introduce more
technologically advanced products, the demand for our similar products would
likely be reduced.  

Intellectual
Property Rights   

We attempt to
protect the proprietary aspects of our products with patents, trademarks and
copyrights, as well as contractual and other trade secret protection
strategies.  

We frequently
review our inventions and discoveries to attempt to determine which inventions
will provide substantial differentiation between our products and those of our
competitors. We currently have four U.S. patents issued and active. In certain
cases, we may also choose to keep an invention or process confidential as
trade secrets, in lieu of making public disclosure through the patenting
process. Key employees are required to enter into nondisclosure and invention
assignment agreements, and customers, vendors and other third parties also must
agree to nondisclosure restrictions prior to disclosure of our trade secrets or
other confidential or proprietary information.  

We have developed
and are using trademarks, slogans and other commercial symbols to advertise and
sell our products, a number of which have been registered with the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office. Our proprietary computer programs are protected under
federal copyright law as unpublished original works. We also maintain the
secrecy of our software source codes through licensing and other restrictions.  

The intellectual
property position of any manufacturer, including us, is subject to
uncertainties and may involve complex legal and factual issues. Allowed
claims for our existing or future patents issued may be challenged,
invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted by those patents may not
provide us with adequate protection. Additionally, it may be possible for
competitors or customers to copy aspects of our products or to obtain
information that we may regard as a trade secret. Litigation may be
necessary in the future to enforce our patents and other intellectual property
rights or to defend us against claims of infringement.  

Backlog   

At December 31, 2005, our backlog of unfilled orders for
which a purchase order number has been assigned by the customer and for which a
delivery schedule has been specified was $ 1.9 million. At December 31,
2004, our backlog was $1.3 million. A significant portion of the backlog at December 31,
2005, is expected to be shipped in the next two quarters. Since a large
majority of the shipments made in a given quarter are usually made during the
latter part of the quarter, and since a significant portion of shipments
in a given quarter are booked during that same quarter, backlog as of a date in
the middle of the quarter will typically be greater than backlog at quarter end.
All orders are subject to cancellation by the customer with limited charges. Our
backlog at a particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for
that or any succeeding period and does not reflect the effects of the SEC s
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, amended by Staff Accounting Bulletin
104 (SAB 104) discussed in our revenue recognition policy in Note 1 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere herein.  

11  

Employees   

At December 31,
2005, we had a total of 80 employees in the following areas: 25 in
manufacturing, 21 in engineering and research and development, 16 in sales,
marketing, application engineering and service, and 18 in administration. Our
workforce remained relatively stable during 2005. Many of our employees are
highly skilled, and we believe our future success will depend in large part on
our ability to attract and retain similar employees. None of our employees are
covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have experienced no work
stoppages. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good.  

Seasonality
in Quarterly Operating Results   

During
each quarter, we customarily sell a relatively small number of systems that
carry a high average selling price. Although we believe our sales are not
seasonal in nature, a small change in the number of products ordered and/or
shipped and accepted in a quarter can have a significant impact on results of
operations for that particular quarter. Moreover, production difficulties could
delay shipments. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly
from quarter to quarter and could be adversely affected for a particular
quarter if shipments and customer acceptances for that quarter were lower than
anticipated. Our quarterly operating results may also be affected by,
among other factors, the timing of new product introductions, fluctuations in
the semiconductor market and the actions of competitors.  

Financial
Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales   

We
operate in three geographic areas. Summarized data for our operations are
included in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included
elsewhere herein.  

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors    

Set
forth below is a discussion of the significant risk factors applicable to the
Company. Additional risk factors may develop in the future.  

Our
ability to continue as a  going concern  is uncertain.   

Our
consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the assumption that we
will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets
and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Report of
the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm included herein contains an
explanatory paragraph that raises substantial doubt about our ability to
continue as a going concern.  

As
of December 31, 2005, we had cash and cash equivalents of $77,000, assets
totaling $4.5 million, liabilities totaling $11.6 million, and incurred losses
from continuing operations of $5.1 million for the year then ended. We expect
to continue to expend cash and incur operating losses at the current net sales
levels, but to a lesser extent than the twelve months ended December 31,
2005 as certain operating expenses are expected to decline from 2005 levels.
Our ability to generate cash and operating income is dependent on increasing
our customer base to expand the penetration of our product technology and the
realization of our lower operating expense targets. It is uncertain whether we
will be able to obtain a sufficient amount of additional capital, if needed, on
acceptable terms, or at all. Further, if future financing requirements are
satisfied through the issuance of equity or debt instruments, shareholders may experience
additional dilution in terms of their percentage of ownership of our securities.
In the event that we are unable to obtain additional capital, our operations
will be materially negatively impacted and we will be required to take actions
that will harm our business, including potentially ceasing certain or all of
our operations.  

The
success of our new products depends upon customer acceptance of both the
testing of semiconductor devices in strip form and the automation of the
back-end of the semiconductor manufacturing process.   

12  

Several
of our new products, including our Tapestry strip handler and other Smart
Solutions products, are used to test and process semiconductor devices in strip
form. Assembly of semiconductor devices in strip form is the standard
industry practice. However, we cannot assure you that testing of semiconductor
devices in strip form will become widely accepted by the industry. Until
recently, most semiconductor manufacturers believed it was necessary to test
semiconductors after they were cut from the strips because they believed the
act of cutting the strips containing the semiconductor devices, referred to as
singulation, could result in damage or contamination to the semiconductor
devices and, as a consequence, make the prior test results unreliable.  

We
introduced our Tapestry handling system in February 1999. In May 2000,
we introduced other Smart Solutions products, which provide additional process
capability for handling and testing semiconductor devices in strip form. In July of
2003, we introduced our Tapestry SC, a second-generation system. In July of
2004, we introduced our Tapestry SC SmartMark, a second-generation system. Our
new products are attractive to customers only if the customers can see the
value of automating the test and assembly portions of their semiconductor manufacturing
operations. Although semiconductor manufacturers have automated the wafer
fabrication portion of their operation, or the front-end of the semiconductor
manufacturing process, very few semiconductor manufacturers have invested a
significant amount of capital to automate the test and assembly portions of
their operations. We are introducing new products for technologies, which may not
be accepted on a wide-scale basis by the industry. If either the testing of
semiconductor devices in strip form or wide-scale automation of the
back-end is not accepted by the industry, our net sales likely will suffer.  

Downturns
in semiconductor industry business cycles could have a negative impact on our
operating results.   

Our business depends heavily upon capital expenditures
by semiconductor manufacturers. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical,
with periods of capacity shortage and periods of excess capacity. In periods of
excess capacity, the industry sharply cuts purchases of capital equipment, such
as our products. Thus, a semiconductor industry downturn or slowdown substantially
reduces our revenues and operating results and could hurt our financial
condition. In the fourth quarter of 2000, the semiconductor capital equipment
industry went into a severe downturn. This downturn continued through 2005, and
has negatively affected our operations and financial condition.  

We have
offered automation solutions and, unless we effectively market our company as a
provider of automation solutions, our expected financial results will suffer.   

We offer equipment automation solutions and software
development services. These solutions and services require different marketing
techniques and involve a more extensive decision-making process by customers
than for our traditional handler products. We need to successfully market our
automation products using different sales methods than we have previously used.  

We
acquired an automation software business in June 1999 and introduced our
first suite of products to provide an automation solution for the testing
portion of semiconductor manufacturing in May 2000. The sales from these
operations make up less than 1%, 3% and 6% of net sales for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our future success is dependent upon being
able to successfully market our automation products. If we are not successful
in effectively marketing ourselves as an equipment automation solutions
provider to the semiconductor industry, our results of operations and financial
condition will suffer.  

We invest
heavily in research and development efforts and our financial results depend
upon the success of these efforts.   

We
have spent, and expect to continue to spend, a significant amount of time and
resources developing new products and refining existing products and systems. In
light of the long product development cycles inherent in our industry, these
expenditures will be made well in advance of the prospect of deriving revenue
from the sale of new systems.  

13  

Our
ability to introduce and market new products successfully is subject to a wide
variety of challenges during this development cycle, such as design defects or
changing market requirements that could delay introduction of these systems. In
addition, since our customers are not obligated by long-term contracts to
purchase our products, our anticipated product orders may not materialize,
or orders that do materialize may be canceled. As a result, if we do not
achieve market acceptance of new products, we may not be able to realize
sufficient sales needed to recoup our research and development expenditures.  

Our
operating results often have large changes from period to period, which may result
in a decrease in our stock price.   

Our quarterly and annual
operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could
adversely affect sales or operating results or lead to significant variability
in our operating results. A variety of factors could cause this variability,
including the following:  

the cyclical nature of the semiconductor
industry;   

      delays in, or cancellation of,
significant system purchases by customers;   

      delays in the development, introduction
and production of our products;   

      changes in the mix of our products and
their gross margins;   

      new product introductions by competitors
and competitive pricing pressures;   

      the time required for us to adjust our
operating expenses to respond to changes in sales and market conditions;   

      the timing of any future acquisitions
and their effect on our financial results;  

      component shortages resulting in
manufacturing delays; and   

      pressure by customers to reduce prices,
shorten delivery times and extend payment terms.  

We
cannot predict the impact of these and other factors on our sales or operating
results in any future period. Results of operations in any period, therefore,
should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any
future period. Because of this difficulty in predicting future performance, our
operating results may fall below expectations of security analysts or
investors in some future periods. Our failure to meet these expectations would
likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  

Our stock
price is volatile and it may drop unexpectedly.   

Stock
prices of companies in the semiconductor equipment industry, including ours,
can swing dramatically with little relationship to operating performance. Factors,
which could cause our stock price to change, include:  

changes in the market s view of the
semiconductor industry in general; 

     changes in
our quarterly operating results for the reasons set out in the previous risk
factors for other reasons; 

     changes in
our reported financial results based on accounting pronouncements; 

     changes in
research analysts  expectations for us or our industry or failure to meet
research analysts  estimates;  

     changes in
the general economic conditions or developments in the semiconductor industry
which affect investors confidence; 

     announcements by us or our
competitors of technological innovations or new or enhanced products and; 

Additional
factors, which may impact our results, include:  

we depend upon a few customers for
the majority of our revenues and a reduction in their orders could adversely
affect us; 

     our operating results would be
harmed if one of our key suppliers fails to deliver components for our products; 

     the loss of any of our key personnel
could harm our business; 

     our markets are very competitive and
demand for our products may decrease if additional competitors enter 

14  

our
markets;  

     our dependence upon international
sales involves significant risk; 

     the possible adverse impact of
economic or political changes in the market we serve; 

     our inability to obtain financing to
fund continuing or expanding operations; 

Fluctuations
or decreases in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect
the ability to trade our shares. In addition, these fluctuations could
adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financing.  

ITEM
2. Properties    

We occupy approximately 22,000 square feet of leased space in
St. Paul, Minnesota, for our principal executive offices and research and
product development activities. This lease expires in 2007. We occupy
approximately 54,000 square feet of leased space in Penang, Malaysia, which is
utilized as a manufacturing center. This lease expires in 2007. We occupy
approximately 1,300 square feet of leased space in the Philippines in support
of our applications engineering and software development activities. This lease
expires in 2008. We believe that our current and committed facilities are
adequate to support our activities for at least the next twelve months.  

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings    

On April 11, 2005,
judgment was entered against the Company in Superior Court of California in the
amount of $379,000 plus legal and court costs for a total amount of $547,000 in
the lawsuit brought by a prior landlord. The Company has reached an agreement
with the landlord that will allow the Company to pay the judgment over a
30-month period for a total amount of $443,000 plus interest at 10% per annum.  

ITEM 4. Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    

There were no matters submitted to a vote of the security
holders during the quarter ended December 31, 2005.  

PART II   

ITEM
5. Market for Registrant s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities    

Our
common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol MCTI. The
following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low closing
sale prices per share of our common stock, as reported by the OTC Bulletin
Board. The share prices represent prices established between broker   dealers
and therefore do not reflect prices of actual transactions.  

15  

The approximate number of holders of record of our common
stock as of December 31, 2005 was 314.  

We
have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not
anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently
intend to retain future earnings to fund the development and growth of our
business.  

Under
the Note Purchase Agreement associated with the issuance of the 10% Senior
Subordinated Convertible Notes and the Security Agreement associated with our
Revolving Line of Credit and Term Note (each discussed in Note 7 in Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere herein) we are prohibited
from paying dividends.  

ITEM
6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data    

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA   

16  

ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Results of Operations and Financial Condition    

This
Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that have been
made pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather
are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about the
semiconductor capital equipment industry, and our beliefs and assumptions. We
intend words such as  anticipates,   expects,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks, 
 estimates  and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These
statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain
risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control
and are difficult to predict. These factors could cause actual results to
differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in the forward-looking
statements. These risks and uncertainties are described in Item 1A and
elsewhere in this report on Form 10-K. We caution you not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management s
view only as of the date of this Report on Form 10-K. We are not obligated
to update these statements or publicly release the result of any revisions to
them to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report on Form 10-K
or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.   

Overview   

We supply equipment automation solutions for the global
semiconductor test and assembly manufacturing market. Our solutions include
automated test handlers, factory automation software and our new integrated
Smart Solutions equipment product line. We believe that our products can
significantly improve the productivity, yield and throughput of the back-end,
or to the post-wafer manufacturing process, including assembling, packaging,
testing and singulating semiconductor devices.  

Beginning in 1999 and continuing into 2000, we
broadened our strategy from that of a test handler manufacturer to becoming a
provider of comprehensive equipment automation solutions for the back-end of
the semiconductor manufacturing process. First, we developed and introduced in February 1999
our Tapestry strip handler. Tapestry combines strip handling capability with
robotics, machine vision technology and critical software, enabling the testing
and tracking of semiconductor devices in strip form and the generation of
critical process data throughout the test process. Second, in June 1999 we
acquired the Infinity Systems division of Fico. Infinity Systems has been
involved in the development of factory automation software for the
semiconductor manufacturing industry. Infinity Systems  software expertise was
integral to the development of our integrated Smart Solutions equipment product
line, introduced in May 2000. Together with a third party tester, our
Smart Solutions equipment products including our Tapestry handler enable
complete automation of the test, laser mark, mark inspect and other processes
of the back end.  

The demand for our products and services is dependent upon
growth in the semiconductor industry and the increasing automation needs of
semiconductor manufacturers and independent test and assembly facilities. In
the fourth quarter of 2000, the semiconductor industry went into a sharp
downturn, which continued through 2005. At this juncture, the return to
sustained market growth cannot be predicted in the short term. As we have
disclosed in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and
2003 and each of our Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of 2005 and 2004,
a continued or renewed market downturn might result in significant losses,
charges for inventory revaluation, or asset impairment or restructuring charges.
Consequently, in response to these changing market conditions, in addition to
the actions taken in 2003, we took the following additional steps in 2004 and
2005.  

Workforce and Facility Cost Reductions   

During the second quarter of 2005, in response
to the continuing downturn in the semiconductor capital equipment market, we
reduced our workforce across all functional areas by approximately 7% resulting
in a restructuring charge of $66,000. This charge reflected severance and other
benefit costs associated with this reduction. This workforce reduction affected
a total of seven employees across all functional areas.  

17  

During the third quarter of 2005, in connection
with our restructuring activities, we reduced our workforce within
manufacturing and sales by approximately 2% resulting in a restructuring charge
of $40,000. This charge reflected severance and other benefit costs associated
with this reduction. This workforce reduction affected a total of two
employees.  

During the fourth quarter
of 2004, we reduced our manufacturing workforce by 11% at the time, resulting
in a restructuring charge of $35,000. This charge reflected severance and other
benefit costs associated with the reduction. This workforce reduction affected
a total of 12 employees all within the manufacturing area.  

During
the first quarter of 2003, in response to the continued and prolonged downturn
in the semiconductor capital equipment industry, we reduced our workforce
across all functional areas by approximately 24% at the time, resulting in a
restructuring charge of $19,000. This charge reflected severance and other
benefit costs associated with this reduction. This workforce reduction affected
a total of 26 employees across all functional areas.  

During the second quarter of 2003, we completed the
restructuring of our master lease for our St. Paul, MN facility, resulting in a
restructuring charge of $227,000, which included write-offs of $41,000 related
to leasehold improvements in the vacated space which provided no future
economic benefit to us. Additionally, we further reduced our workforce across
all functional areas by approximately 4% at the time, resulting in a restructuring
charge of $20,000. This charge reflected severance and other benefit costs
associated with this reduction. This workforce reduction affected a total of
four employees across all functional areas.  

Financing transactions   

On March 7, 2003 and March 26, 2003, pursuant to a
private equity placement with a group of accredited investors, we issued a
total of 3,166,869 shares of common stock, which resulted in net proceeds to us
of approximately $1.1 million. Stock issuance costs associated with this
offering totaled approximately $241,000. As part of this offering, we also
issued warrants to purchase 253,350 shares of common stock that have a term of
five years with an exercise price of $0.43 per share.  

On June 30, 2003, we completed the
restructuring of $9.29 million, or 92.9%, of our 10% Senior Subordinated
Convertible Notes, wherein the participating noteholders agreed to accept stock
in lieu of cash for the next four semi-annual interest payment dates beginning June 30,
2003 through December 31, 2004, and the conversion price was lowered to
$1.00 per share. On February 25, 2005, we completed a second
amendment to the agreement with the holders of our 10% Senior Subordinated
Convertible Notes, wherein holders of 80% of the remaining Notes, representing
$2.9 million, agreed to continue to accept stock in payment of interest for the
remaining four interest payments through December 24, 2006. The conversion
price was then reduced to $0.85 per share. On April 29, 2005, we completed
another financing transaction with Laurus. As a result of the new financing
with Laurus, the conversion price for all of the Noteholders who accepted the
prior restructuring agreements was at that time reduced to $0.61 per share.  

In July of 2003, we
completed negotiations with the majority of our vendors to extend the payment
terms of the total amounts owed to them at the time. This resulted in $1.2
million of our payables, or 67% of our total accounts payable at the time,
being restructured with a total of 281 vendors. Under the terms of the extended
payment plan, we have agreed to make four to eight equal payments beginning on July 30,
2003 until the balances are satisfied. The number of vendors agreeing to this
plan represented approximately 61% of our active vendors. As of December 31,
2003, all scheduled payments have been made in accordance with the terms of the
extended payment plan.  

On March 9,
2004, we completed a $5.0 million financing transaction with an institutional
lender, Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. ( Laurus ), secured by all of the assets of
the Company. The financing included a $3.0 million working capital line of
credit and a $2.0 million long-term note. The notes were partially convertible
into shares of our common stock. In connection with the transaction, we issued
to Laurus a seven-year warrant to purchase 400,000 shares of common stock at
exercise prices ranging from $2.30 to $2.88 per share. The secured loan in
existence at that time with a prior lender was terminated.  

18  

On January 28,
2005, we completed an amendment to the financing agreement with Laurus to defer
payments on the long-term convertible note. As part of this amendment, the
conversion prices on both notes were reduced. We also issued Laurus at that
time a seven-year warrant to purchase 150,000 shares of common stock at $.67
per share.  

On April 29,
2005, we completed another financing transaction with Laurus in which we borrowed
an additional $2.5 million, and which was convertible into shares of common
stock. We also issued Laurus at that time an option to purchase 2,556,651
shares of common stock at an exercise price of $.01 per share. We received net
proceeds of approximately $2.4 million at the closing.  

On
February 17, 2006, we again restructured the financing with Laurus, and
increased the total maximum secured indebtedness with Laurus to $9.25 million. The
restructured financing now includes a $5.25 million term note. Interest is
payable monthly on the term note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. Beginning 360
days after closing, we are required to make monthly payments equal to 1/60th of
the principal amount until three years after the closing, at which time the
entire remaining principal and accrued interest is due and payable in full. The
note is non-convertible. In addition to the $5.25 million note, the working
capital line of credit was increased from $3.0 million to $4.0 million, and
made non-convertible. The note is payable in full on March 8, 2008. Interest
is payable monthly on the note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. The existing $1.2
million over-advance in excess of the borrowing base on the working capital
line of credit was extended until April 30, 2007. However, commencing on December 1,
2006, the over-advance is to be reduced by $200,000 each month. The Company
also issued Laurus a 10-year option to purchase 2,500,000 shares at an exercise
price of $.01 per share. The shares issuable upon exercise of the option have
standard registration rights. As a result of the new financing with Laurus, the
conversion price for all of the Noteholders who accepted the prior
restructuring agreements has been reduced to $0.56 per share.  

Most industry forecasts
are presently predicting that capacity-driven purchases of capital equipment
are expected to improve in 2006. However, the level of improvement and the
ability for the market to sustain an improvement continues to be uncertain. Therefore,
we will continue to monitor the market and if required, examine opportunities
to further reduce our costs through further consolidation of operations,
limiting capital expenditures, monitoring inventory purchases and additional
strategic restructuring initiatives. Certain of these types of actions have the
potential for further charges in future periods. The impact of a continuing
contraction of the semiconductor capital equipment market has the potential to
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations, and cash flows.  

Critical
Accounting Policies   

Revenue Recognition   

Under SAB 104, we recognize revenue
upon shipment, as our terms are FOB shipping point, for established equipment
products that have previously satisfied existing customer performance specifications
and that provide for full payment tied to shipment. Revenue for products that
have not previously satisfied customer performance specifications or from sales
where all or a portion of customer payment is based upon acceptance are only
recognized upon customer acceptance. As such, in periods of increasing
shipments, revenues will be deferred if the shipments are for new customers,
new products or the payment terms are tied to acceptance criteria. Consequently,
if these conditions exist, we may report revenue levels that are not
reflective of actual shipment growth rates. Conversely, in periods of
decreasing shipments, we potentially could recognize revenues related to
shipments made in prior periods. Consequently, if these conditions exist, we may report
revenue levels that are greater than actual shipments. During the year ended December 31,
2005, revenue recorded approximated shipments.  

19  

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   

We record a provision for
doubtful accounts based on specific identification of our accounts receivable.
This involves a degree of judgment based on discussion with our internal sales
and marketing groups, our customer base and the examination of the financial
stability of our customers. There can be no assurance that our estimates will
match actual amounts ultimately written off. During periods of downturn in the
market for semiconductor capital equipment or economic recession, a greater
degree of risk exists concerning the ultimate collectability of our accounts
receivable due to the impact that these conditions might have on our customer
base. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded a provision of
$46,000 and charged approximately $113,000 against the allowance for accounts
receivable write-offs that we deemed to be uncollectible.  

Valuation of Inventories   

Our
inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by
the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) method. We maintain a standard costing system
for our inventories. Assumptions with respect to direct labor utilization,
standard direct and indirect cost rates, vendor pricing and utilization of
factory capacities are formulated in the development of our standard costing
system. Sudden or continuing changes in the semiconductor capital equipment
market affecting our shipments can result in significant production variances
from our standard rates. These variances directly impact our gross profit performance
and may cause variability in gross profits results from reporting
period-to-reporting period. Our labor and overhead rates are set for production
rates that match typical market conditions. Production variances are charged to
cost of sales each quarter as incurred. Material standards are based upon normal
purchase volumes. Purchase price variances are charged to costs of sales each
quarter as incurred.  

Provisions to reduce
inventories to the lower of cost or market are made based on a review of excess
and obsolete inventories through an examination of historical component
consumption, current market demands and shifting product technology. Significant
assumptions with respect to market trends and customer product acceptance are
utilized to formulate our provision methods. Sudden or continuing downward
changes in the semiconductor capital equipment market may cause us to
record additional inventory revaluation charges in future periods. For the year
ended December 31, 2005, we recorded an additional inventory reserve of
$525,000. No write-down of our inventories occurred for the year ended December 31,
2004 or 2003.  

Accrued Warranty   

We
provide a standard thirteen month warranty program for our equipment products.
We record provisions for warranty claims for these products based upon
historical claim performance. This approach has been applied since the
inception of the warranty program and involves a degree of subjectivity in that
historical performance is used to estimate future warranty claims. There can be
no assurance that our estimates will match the actual amount of future warranty
claims.  

Results
of Operations   

The
following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our
statements of operations as a percentage of net sales:  

20  

Year Ended December 31, 2005 versus Year Ended December 31,
2004    

Net Sales.   Net sales for the year ended December 31,
2005 decreased $7.5 million or 51.6% to $7.1 million, compared to net sales of
$14.6 million for the prior year. Current year product sales continued to be
severely impacted by the continued downturn in the semiconductor capital
equipment market. Sales of our Tapestry and Smart Solutions strip-based
products decreased $4.9 million or 60.0% over the prior year period, while
sales of singulated device handler products also decreased $2.4 million or
53.5% from the prior year period. Sales of our Tapestry and Smart Solutions
strip-based product made up 46.0% of our net sales for the year ended December 31,
2005 compared to 54.6% in the prior year period. If the market continues to be
in this downturn, net sales would be adversely impacted in future periods. 

Net sales to Asia comprised approximately 78.5% of our net
sales for the year ended December 31, 2005. Net sales to customers in the
United States represented approximately 17.1% and net sales to customers in
Europe represented approximately 4.4% for year ended December 31, 2005. Comparatively,
net sales to customers in Asia comprised approximately 72.8% of our net sales
for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net sales to customers in the United
States represented approximately 19.0% and net sales to customers in Europe
represented approximately 8.2% for year ended December 31, 2004.  

Gross
Profit.   Gross profit decreased $4.8 million to $2.5 million
or 35.8% of net sales from $7.3 million or 50.1% of net sales, for the
comparable period in the prior year. The decrease in gross margin is directly
related to the $525,000 additional inventory reserve recorded at the end of the
year along with the decline in sales, resulting in fixed costs being spread
over smaller sales volumes. Additionally, for the year ended December 31,
2004, we benefited from approximately $1.5 million in gross margin dollars
resulting from sales of products that had been previously written down to lower
of cost or market. However, a continued contraction of the market for
semiconductor capital equipment as well as changes in sales mix would
negatively impact our gross margin contribution in future periods. 

Selling,
General and Administrative Expense.   Selling, general and
administrative expense in 2005 was $4.2 million, or 59.6% of net sales compared
to $5.6 million, or 38.2% of net sales in the prior year. The decrease in
expense for the current year is a result of restructuring efforts that have
been completed during 2003, 2004, and 2005. Although the expenses have been
reduced, the percentage to net sales is higher than the prior year due to
expenses being spread over lower net sales. Selling, general and administrative
expense is expected to remain fairly flat in 2006 from 2005 due to expense
cutting measures and the continuing retraction in the semiconductor capital
equipment market. 

Research
and Development Expense  . Research and development expense in
2005 was $2.0 million, or 28.0% of net sales compared to $2.4 million, or 19.5%
of net sales in 2004. The decrease in expense for the current year is a direct
result of certain development activities that have been completed during the
year. The increase in percent of sales over prior year is directly related to
the spread of expenses over a lower net sales amount. We expect research and
development expenses to be slightly higher in 2006 due to the anticipation of
new product development projects, subject to impacts resulting from market requirements. 

Restructuring
Charge.   Due to the continuing retraction of the semiconductor
capital equipment market in 2005, we reduced our workforce across all
functional areas by approximately 7% in the second quarter and 2% in the third
quarter. The restructuring charge totaled $107,000 or 1.5% of net sales for the
current year period. This charge reflected severance and other benefit costs
associated with the reduction. This workforce reduction affected a total of 9
employees. 

21  

Other
Income (Expense).   Interest income for the year ended December 31,
2005 was $13,000 compared to $6,000 for the comparable period in the prior year.
This increase resulted from a slight rate increase in investment in interest-bearing
cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense and other totaled $1.3 million or
18.9% of net sales in the current year, compared to $0.9 million or 5.9% of net
sales for the comparable period in the prior year. The increase in interest
expense and other relates to the write-off of cumulative translation adjustment
of $69,000 and higher average debt levels due to additional financing with an
institutional lender. 

Income
Tax Provision.   During both 2005 and 2004, we incurred minimal
tax liabilities. We have recorded valuation allowances against all benefits
associated with net operating loss carry forwards due to uncertainty regarding
their ultimate utilization. 

Net Loss.
  Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $5.1
million, or $0.20 per basic and diluted share, as compared to net loss of $2.0
million, or $ 0.08 per basic and diluted share for the comparable prior year
period. 

Year Ended December 31, 2004 versus Year Ended December 31,
2003    

Net Sales.   Net sales for the year ended December 31,
2004 increased $3.5 million or 31.3% to $14.6 million, compared to net sales of
$11.1 million for the prior year. Product acceptance requirements related to
product and customer mix resulted in a net increase to revenues of less than
$0.1 million over shipments for the year ended December 31, 2004, while
these same factors caused a net increase to revenues of $.01 million over
shipments in 2003. Sales of our Tapestry and Smart Solutions strip-based
products increased $2.5 million or 44.6% over the prior year period, while
sales of singulated device handler products also increased $0.9 million or
86.9% from the prior year period. Sales of our Tapestry and Smart Solutions
strip-based product made up 54.6% of our net sales for the year ended December 31,
2004 compared to 49.6% in the prior year period. 

Net sales to Asia comprised approximately 72.8% of our net
sales for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net sales to customers in the
United States represented approximately 19.0% and net sales to customers in
Europe represented approximately 8.2% for year ended December 31, 2004. Comparatively,
net sales to customers in Asia comprised approximately 62.8% of our net sales
for the year ended December 31, 2003. Net sales to customers in the United
States represented approximately 33.5% and net sales to customers in Europe
represented approximately 3.7% for year ended December 31, 2003.  

Gross
Profit.   Gross profit increased $2.5 million to $7.3 million
or 50.1% of net sales from $4.8 million or 43.4% of net sales, for the
comparable period in the prior year. The increase in gross margin in 2004
period primarily resulted from the many restructuring efforts that we have
completed during 2003 coupled with our lower cost of operations associated with
our Penang, Malaysia facility and higher net sales levels. This has resulted in
lower fixed costs being spread over a larger number of products contributing to
the overall improvement in gross profit performance. Additionally, for the year
ended December 31, 2004, we benefited from approximately $1.5 million in
gross margin dollars resulting from sales of products that had been previously
written down to lower of cost or market. However, the recent contraction of the
market for semiconductor capital equipment has the potential to negatively
impact our gross margin contribution in future periods as well as changes in
sales mix. 

Selling,
General and Administrative Expense.   Selling, general and administrative
expense in 2004 was $5.6 million, or 38.3% of net sales compared to $4.9
million, or 43.8% of net sales in the prior year. The increase in expense for
2004 was a result of the costs required in connection with the higher net sales
levels. However, the expense increases were at a lower rate than the increase
in net sales, resulting in a decline in the percentage to sales. Selling,
general and administrative expense is expected to decline in 2005 from 2004 levels
due the recent retraction in the semiconductor capital equipment market. 

Research
and Development Expense  . Research and development expense in
2004 was $2.8 million, or 19.5% of net sales compared to $2.4 million, or 21.1%
of net sales in 2003. The increase in expense for 2004 was a direct result of
certain development activities that resulted in the introduction of new product
and existing product  

22  

enhancements during the
year. However, the expense increases were at a lower rate than the increase in
net sales, resulting in a decline in the percentage to sales.  

Restructuring
Charge.   Due to the retraction of the semiconductor capital
equipment market in the second half of 2004, we reduced out workforce by 11%. The
restructuring charge totaled $35,000 or 0.2% of net sales for the 2004 year. This
charge reflected severance and other benefit costs associated with the reduction.
This workforce reduction affected a total of 12 employees all within the
manufacturing area. 

Other
Income (Expense).   Interest income for the year ended December 31,
2004 was $6,000 compared to $5,000 for the comparable period in the prior year.
This decrease resulted from the decrease in investment in interest-bearing cash
and cash equivalents. Interest expense and other totaled $0.9 million or 6.2%
of net sales in 2004 year, compared to $1.2 million or 11.0% of net sales for
the comparable period in the prior year. The decline in interest expense and
other resulted from lower average debt levels due to conversions of our 10%
senior convertible debt. In connection with the transfer of our manufacturing
operations to Penang, we sold certain fixed and other assets from our St. Paul,
Minnesota facility resulting in a gain on sale of $209,000 or 1.9% of net sales
for the year ended December 31, 2003. For the year ended December 31,
2004, certain assets were disposed of resulting in a loss on sale of $12,000. 

Income
Tax Provision.   During both 2004 and 2003, we incurred minimal
tax liabilities. We have recorded valuation allowances against all benefits
associated with net operating loss carry forwards due to uncertainty regarding
their ultimate utilization. 

Net Loss.
  Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $ 2.0
million, or $0.08 per basic and diluted share, as compared to net loss of $3.7
million, or $ 0.21 per basic and diluted share for the comparable prior year
period. 

23  

Quarterly
Results    

The
following tables present selected unaudited quarterly operating results for the
eight fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2005, as well as the data
expressed as a percentage of net sales. We believe that all necessary
adjustments have been included to present fairly the quarterly information when
read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements. The operating
results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results for any
subsequent period.  

24  

(1)      The sum of income
(loss) per share for the fiscal quarters may differ from annual loss per
share due to the required method of computing weighted average number of shares
in the respective periods. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources    

The net loss and decreases in accounts payable were the
primary uses of cash in 2005. The net loss and decreases in accounts payable
and other accrued liabilities were the primary uses of cash in 2004. The net
loss and increase in accounts receivable were the primary uses of cash in 2003.
Cash used in operations was $3.2 million, $3.4 million and $2.2 million in
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

We
record provisions for doubtful accounts based on specific identification of our
accounts receivable. As a result of this examination, no provisions were
recorded for the year ended December 31, 2005; however, we wrote off
approximately $113,000, which we deemed uncollectible. We recorded no
provisions for doubtful accounts for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
December 31, 2003, respectively.  

Capital
expenditures totaled $35,000, $149,000 and $111,000 for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Capital purchases for all periods have been
primarily for production and computer equipment and for leasehold improvements.
As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $0.45 million in committed
purchase orders outstanding with our vendors and budgeted capital expenditures
for 2006 is approximately $0.1 million.  

On March 7,
2003 and March 26, 2003, pursuant to a private equity placement with a
group of accredited investors, we issued a total of 3,166,869 shares of common
stock, which resulted in net proceeds to us of approximately $1.1 million. Stock
issuance costs associated with this offering totaled approximately $241,000. As
part of this offering, we also issued warrants to purchase 253,350 shares
of common stock that have a term of five years with an exercise price of $0.43
per share.  

On
June 30, 2003, we completed the restructuring of $9.29 million, or 92.9%,
of our 10% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes, wherein the participating noteholders
agreed to accept stock in lieu of cash for the next four semi-annual interest
payment dates beginning June 30, 2003 through December 31, 2004. $10.0
million of the Notes were originally issued in December 2001, resulting in
proceeds to us of $9.2 million. As part of this restructuring, the Company
amended the Notes of the participating noteholders to reduce the conversion
price from $2.60 per share to $1.00 per share for the remainder of the term
through December 2006. The agreement also included standard anti-dilution
provisions, and required the Company to register the shares with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.   On February 25,
2005, we completed a second amendment to the agreement with the holders of our
10% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes, wherein holders of 80% of the
remaining Notes, representing $2.9 million, agreed to continue to accept stock
in payment of interest for the remaining four interest payments through December 24,
2006. The conversion price was then reduced to $0.85 per share.   On
April 29, 2005, we completed another financing transaction with Laurus. As
a result of the new financing with Laurus, the conversion price for all of the
Noteholders who accepted the prior restructuring agreements was at that time
reduced to $0.61 per share. As of December 31, 2005, $6.4 million of the
Notes have been converted to equity under this agreement, resulting in the
issuance of 6,370,081 shares of our common stock to the noteholders.  

In July of 2003, we
completed negotiations with the majority of our vendors to extend the payment
terms of the total amounts owed to them at the time. This resulted in $1.2
million of our payables, or 67% of our total accounts payable at the time,
being restructured with a total of 281 vendors. Under the terms of the extended
payment plan, we have agreed to make four to eight equal payments beginning on July 30,
2003 until the balances are satisfied. The number of vendors agreeing to this
plan represented approximately 61% of our active vendors. As of December 31,
2005,   all
scheduled contractual payments have been made under this plan  .  

On March 9,
2004 we completed a $5.0 million secured financing transaction with an
institutional lender. Under the terms of the three-year agreement, we put in
place a $3.0 million secured working capital line of credit and a $2.0
long-term convertible note. In connection with the execution of this credit
facility, we issued to the lender a seven-year warrant to purchase 400,000
shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from   

25  

$2.30 to $2.88. Our
existing secured lending relationship was terminated as a result of this
transaction. This credit facility is secured by all the assets of the Company.  

On January 28,
2005, we completed an amendment to the financing agreement with Laurus to defer
payments on the long-term convertible note. As part of this amendment, the
conversion prices on both notes were reduced. We also issued Laurus at that
time a seven-year warrant to purchase 150,000 shares of common stock at $.67
per share.  

On April 29,
2005, we completed another financing transaction with Laurus in which we
borrowed an additional $2.5 million, and which was convertible into shares of
common stock. We also issued Laurus at that time an option to purchase
2,556,651 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $.01 per share. We
received net proceeds of approximately $2.4 million at the closing.  

On
February 17, 2006, we again restructured the financing with Laurus, and
increased the total maximum secured indebtedness with Laurus to $9.25 million. The
restructured financing now includes a $5.25 million term note. Interest is
payable monthly on the term note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. Beginning 360
days after closing, we are required to make monthly payments equal to 1/60th of
the principal amount until three years after the closing, at which time the
entire remaining principal and accrued interest is due and payable in full. The
note is non-convertible. In addition to the $5.25 million note, the working
capital line of credit was increased from $3.0 million to $4.0 million, and
made non-convertible. The note is payable in full on March 8, 2008. Interest
is payable monthly on the note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. The existing $1.2
million over-advance in excess of the borrowing base on the working capital
line of credit was extended until April 30, 2007. However, commencing on December 1,
2006, the over-advance is to be reduced by $200,000 each month. The Company also
issued Laurus a 10-year option to purchase 2,500,000 shares at an exercise
price of $.01 per share. The shares issuable upon exercise of the option have
standard registration rights. As a result of the new financing with Laurus, the
conversion price for all of the Noteholders who accepted the prior
restructuring agreements has been reduced to $0.56 per share.  

Our contractual obligations are as follows (in thousands):  

For
the year ended December 31, 2005, no common shares were exercised through employee
stock options, warrants and our stock purchase plan. For the year ended December 31,
2004, we issued approximately 0.1 million shares of common stock through the
exercise of employee stock options and our stock purchase plan, which provided
approximately $21,000 in cash to us. For the year ended December 31, 2003,
we issued approximately 0.2 million shares of common stock through the exercise
of employee stock options and our stock purchase plan, which provided approximately
$0.2 million in cash to us.  

We believe that these
transactions in combination with our existing line of credit will provide the
cash necessary to meet our operating, working capital and capital resource
obligations through all of 2006.  

In the
future, we estimate that we may need to raise additional capital through
debt or equity offerings to support the continuing requirements of the business
due to the retraction of the semiconductor capital equipment market and the
potential impacts on our cash flows and results of operations that could
result. There is no assurance   

26  

that additional
financing, if needed, will be available on terms and conditions acceptable or
favorable to us, if at all.  

Federal
Tax Matters   

We
paid only nominal federal and state income taxes in the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003. At December 31, 2005, we had federal net operating
loss carryforwards for tax reporting purposes of approximately $36.3 million
after considering annual limitations under Section 382 of the Internal
Revenue Code.  

ITEM
7A . Quantitative And Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     

The vast majority of our transactions are denominated in U.S.
dollars; as such, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have historically
had little impact on us. Inflation has not been a significant factor in our
operations in any of the periods presented, and it is not expected to affect
operations in the future. A 1% increase in interest rates would increase our
interest expense by $92,500 per year. At December 31, 2005, our 10% Senior
Convertible Notes carried interest at a fixed rate of 10%. Our short term
revolving line of credit and long-term convertible debt carried interest at the
prime rate plus 1.75%. The refinancing with Laurus on February 17, 2006
changed this rate to prime plus 2.5%. There is no material market risk relating
to our long-term debt.  

Impact of
New Accounting Standards   

SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections.
    In June 2005,
FASB issued SFAS No. 154,    Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections   , a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20
and FASB Statement No. 3. The statement applies to all voluntary changes
in accounting principle, and changes the requirements for accounting for and
reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 requires
retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements of a voluntary
change in accounting principle unless it is impracticable. SFAS No. 154 is
effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005. Earlier application is permitted for
accounting changes and corrections of errors made occurring in fiscal years
beginning after June 1, 2005. The statement does not change the transition
provisions of any existing accounting pronouncements, including those that are
in a transition phase as of the effective date of this statement. The Company
does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 154 to have a material effect on
its financial statements.  

SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),
Share-Based Payment   . In December 2004, FASB issued
SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),   Share-Based
Payment  , that focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in
which an entity obtains employee services in share-based payment transactions. This
statement replaces SFAS No. 123,   Accounting
for Stock-Based      Compensation  ,
and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,   Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees  . Beginning with our quarterly period
that begins January 1, 2006, we will be required to expense the fair value
of employee stock options and similar awards. As a public company, we are
allowed to select from two alternative transition methods, each having
different reporting implications. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 123R
to have a material effect on our financial statements. 

ITEM 8. Consolidated
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

See
Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2005. The financial information by quarter
is included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

ITEM 9. Changes
in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

On December 8, 2005, the Registrant s
independent public accountants, Virchow, Krause   Company, LLP ( Virchow
Krause ), formally notified the Registrant that it will resign, effective with
the completion of the audit for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005.  

27  

Also on December 8, 2005, the Board of
Directors, pursuant to the recommendation of the Audit Committee, approved the
retention of Olsen, Thielen   Co. Ltd. ( Olsen Thielen ), as the
Registrant s independent public accountants for the fiscal year ending December 31,
2006.  

The audit report of Virchow Krause on the financial statements of the
Company for the year ended December 31, 2004 contains an explanatory
paragraph that raises substantial doubt about the Registrant s ability to
continue as a going concern. The audit reports of Virchow Krause on the
financial statements of the Registrant for the last two fiscal years ended December 31,
2004, did not contain any other adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor
were those opinions otherwise qualified or modified as to audit scope or
accounting principles. During the Registrant s two most recent fiscal years
ended December 31, 2004, and during the subsequent interim period
preceding the resignation of Virchow Krause, there was no disagreement between
the Registrant and Virchow Krause on any matter of accounting principles or
practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure
which, if not resolved to Virchow Krause s satisfaction, would have caused
Virchow Krause to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement in
connection with its reports. During the Registrant s two most recent fiscal
years and the subsequent interim period through December 8, 2005, there
were no reportable events, as that term is defined by Item 304 of Regulation
S-K.  

No consultations occurred between the Registrant and
Olsen Thielen during the two most recent fiscal years ended December 31,
2004, and during the subsequent interim period preceding the resignation of
Virchow Krause, regarding either (1) the application of accounting
principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed, or the
type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the Registrant s financial
statements, or (2) any matter that was the subject of a disagreement or a
reportable event.  

ITEM
9A. Controls and Procedures    

(a)        Evaluation of
disclosure controls and procedures. 

Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the
Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as
of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation,
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of
the evaluation date, our disclosure controls and procedures were not operating
effectively with respect to the matters referred to in paragraph (b) below, but
were otherwise effective to ensure that the information required to be
disclosed by us in our periodic SEC filings is recorded, processed, summarized,
and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange
Commission s rules and forms.  

(b)      Changes in
internal controls over financial reporting. 

During
the course of their audit of our consolidated financial statements for 2005,
our independent registered public accounting firm, Virchow, Krause  
Company, LLP (Virchow Krause), advised management and the Audit Committee that
our internal controls had allowed an error in the inventory reserve calculation
due to inconsistent treatment of work in process items from 2004 to 2005. Based
on Virchow Krause s recommendation, management decided that an increase in the
inventory reserve of approximately $525,000 was required as of December 31,
2005, to reflect a revaluation of excess inventory and adjustments to inventory
consumption rates. The inventory reserve error had no effect on reported
results for any of the individual quarters in 2005. As a result of this
experience, we revised and expanded our procedures for valuations of excess
inventory and estimates of inventory consumption rates, and the related
internal controls, to involve greater analysis of historical and projected
usage of inventory as well as other data.  

During the course of their audit, Virchow Krause
recommended changes to certain other of the Company s controls and procedures,
none of which had any impact on the audited financials statements for 2005 or
prior years. As of the date of this report, management is in the process of
implementing changes to these controls and procedures.  

There
were no additional changes in our internal control over financial reporting
during the fourth quarter of 2005 that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  

ITEM 9B. Other Information    

This item is not applicable .  

28  

PART III    

ITEM 10. Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant    

The information required by this item concerning directors and
executive officers is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement to be
filed no later than 120 days following our December 31, 2005 year-end.  

ITEM 11. Executive Compensation    

The
information required under this item is hereby incorporated by reference from
the Proxy Statement.  

ITEM
12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters    

The information required
under this item is hereby incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement.  

ITEM 13. Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions    

The information required under this item is hereby
incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement.  

ITEM
14. Principal Accountant Fee and Services    

The
information required under this item is hereby incorporated by reference from
the Proxy Statement.  

ITEM
15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K    

(a)1. Consolidated
Financial Statements   

(a)3.
Exhibits   

29  

30  

31  

MICRO COMPONENT TECHNOLOGY, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

F-1  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGSITERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM   

To the Audit Committee,
Stockholders and Board of Directors of  

  Micro Component
Technology, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

  St. Paul, MN  

We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Micro Component Technology, Inc.
and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  deficit and cash flows for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. These consolidated
financial statements are the responsibility of the company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.  

We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management as well as
evaluating the overall consolidated financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Micro Component Technology, Inc.
and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  

The accompanying
consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that the company
will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements, the company has suffered recurring losses from operations
and has a stockholders  deficit. These factors raise substantial doubt about
its ability to continue as a going concern. Management s plans in regard to
these matters are also described in Note 1. The consolidated financial
statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of
this uncertainty.  

/s/ Virchow,
  Krause   Company, LLP  

Minneapolis, Minnesota  

  February 3, 2006  

  (Except for Note 12, as
to which the date is February 17, 2006)  

F-2  

MICRO COMPONENT TECHNOLOGY, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   

  (in thousands, except share and per share amounts)  

See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

F-3  

MICRO COMPONENT TECHNOLOGY, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS   

  (in thousands, except per share data)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

F-4  

MICRO COMPONENT TECHNOLOGY, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  DEFICIT   

  (in thousands, except share data)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

F-5  

MICRO COMPONENT TECHNOLOGY, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

  (in thousands)  

See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.  

F-6  

MICRO COMPONENT TECHNOLOGY, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   

NOTE 1
- - DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES   

Business   

We design, manufacture,
market and service automated test handling equipment for the semiconductor
industry. Our handlers are designed to handle most semiconductor or integrated
circuit device packages currently in production. We operate in one business
segment in three geographic locations.  

A
network of offices and representatives supports our customers across North
America, Europe and Asia. Our company was formed in 1972 and is headquartered
in St. Paul, Minnesota.  

Basis of
Presentation   

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company
and our subsidiaries after elimination of all significant intercompany balances
and transactions. All significant subsidiaries are 100% owned.  

Our
consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the assumption that we
will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets
and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. The
independent registered public accounting firm report included herein contains
an explanatory paragraph that raises substantial doubt about our ability to
continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any
adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and
classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result
from the outcome of this uncertainty  .  

As
of December 31, 2005, we had cash and cash equivalents of $77,000, working
capital of negative $188,000, assets totaling $4.5 million, liabilities
totaling $11.6 million and an accumulated deficit of $105.0 million for the
year then ended. We expect to continue to expend cash and incur operating
losses at the current net sales levels, but to a lesser extent than the twelve
months ended December 31, 2005 as certain operating expenses are expected
to decline from 2005 levels. Our ability to generate cash and operating income
is dependent on increasing our customer base to expand the penetration of our
product technology and the realization of our lower operating expense targets.  

On
February 17, 2006, we restructured the financing with Laurus, and
increased the total maximum secured indebtedness with Laurus to $9.25 million
from $7.0 million. The restructured financing now includes a $5.25 million term
note. Interest is payable monthly on the term note at the prime rate plus 2.5%.
Beginning 360 days after closing, we are required to make monthly payments
equal to 1/60th of the principal amount until three years after the closing, at
which time the entire remaining principal and accrued interest is due and
payable in full. The note is non-convertible. In addition to the $5.25 million
note, the working capital line of credit was increased from $3.0 million to
$4.0 million, and made non-convertible. The note is payable in full on March 8,
2008. Interest is payable monthly on the note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. The
existing $1.2 million over-advance in excess of the borrowing base on the
working capital line of credit was extended until April 30, 2007. However,
commencing on December 1, 2006, the over-advance is to be reduced by
$200,000 each month. The Company also issued Laurus a 10-year option to
purchase 2,500,000 shares at an exercise price of $.01 per share. The shares
issuable upon exercise of the option have standard registration rights.  

The
Company believes that the combination of reduced spending, increasing our
customer base to further enable the penetration of our product technology, the
amendment of our existing credit facility and the amendment of our agreement
with the holders of our 10% Senior Convertible Notes, each discussed in Note
13, contained   

F-7  

elsewhere herein, will
provide the cash necessary to meet our operating, working capital and capital resource
obligations through all of 2006.  

Use of
Estimates   

The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America requires that we make estimates and
assumptions that affect amounts reported therein. Due to the inherent
uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results reported in future
periods might differ from those estimates.  

Revenue
Recognition   

Under SAB 104, our revenue is recognized upon
shipment, as our terms are FOB shipping point, for established products that
have previously satisfied existing customer performance specifications and that
provide for full payment tied to shipment. Revenue for products that have not
previously satisfied customer performance specifications or from sales where
all or a portion of customer payment is based upon acceptance are only
recognized upon customer acceptance. The related inventory costs are offset
against the deferred revenue and reported as  deferred revenue in excess of
costs incurred  in the consolidated balance sheet. Product warranty and installation
costs are accrued in the period sales are recognized. Installation services are
considered to be perfunctory as defined under SAB 104 and average less than 5%
of the contract price. Revenue related to spare parts is recognized upon
shipment. Revenue related to maintenance and service contracts are deferred and
amortized to earnings on a straight-line basis over the life of the service
contract. Custom integration software revenue is recognized on a project basis
with milestone acceptance provisions. Shipping and handling costs are billed to
the customer and included in the net revenue with the cost of shipment and
handling charged to cost of goods sold.  

Research
and Development Expenses   

Research
and development expenses for new product development are charged to expense as
incurred.  

Financial
Instruments   

The
carrying amounts for all financial instruments approximates fair value. The
carrying amounts for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts
payable and accrued liabilities approximates fair value because of the short
maturity of these instruments. The fair value of capital lease obligations,
note payable and long-term debt approximates the carrying amounts based upon
the Company s expected borrowing rate for debt with similar remaining
maturities and comparable risk.  

Cash and
Cash Equivalents   

We
consider all highly liquid investments purchased with original maturities of 90
days or less to be cash equivalents. We place our temporary cash investments
with high credit quality financial institutions. At times such investments may be
in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance limit.  

Accounts
Receivable   

We review customers  credit history before
extending unsecured credit and establish an allowance for doubtful accounts
based upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers and other
information. Invoice terms can vary from net 30 days, to percentage amounts of
the total customer purchase order tied to acceptance criteria. The Company does
not accrue interest on past due accounts receivable. The Company writes off
receivables when they are deemed uncollectible after all collection attempts
have failed. Accounts receivable are  

F-8  

shown
net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $148,000 and $215,000 at December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively.  

Inventories   

Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by the first-in,
first-out ( FIFO ) method. Provisions to reduce inventories to the lower of
cost or market is made based on a review of excess and obsolete inventories,
estimates of future sales, examination of historical consumption rates and the
related value of component parts.  

Property,
Plant and Equipment   

Property,
plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is provided by the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets for
financial reporting and accelerated methods for tax purposes. Leasehold
improvements are amortized over the shorter of the estimated useful life or the
lease term for financial reporting purposes. Estimated lives used in computing
book depreciation are as follows:  

Leasehold
  improvements  

3 to 10 years  

Machinery and
  equipment  

2 to 7  

Furniture and
  fixtures  

3 to 5  

Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets   

We
periodically evaluate the carrying value of long-lived assets for potential
impairment. We consider projected future operating results, cash flows, trends,
and other circumstances in making such estimates and evaluations. When the
carrying value of any long-lived asset exceeds its projected undiscounted cash
flows, impairment is recognized to reduce the carrying value to its fair market
value.  

Product
Warranty   

At the
time the product is sold, estimated costs of warranty obligations to customers
are charged to expense and a related accrual is established.  

Income
Taxes   

We
account for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109  , Accounting
for Income Taxes  . Deferred income taxes are recorded based on differences
in the bases of assets and liabilities between the financial statements and the
tax returns as well as from loss carryforwards. The valuation allowance for
deferred income tax benefits is determined by us based upon the expectation of
whether the benefits are more likely than not to be realized.  

Stock-Based
Compensation   

We
account for stock-based transactions under SFAS No. 123  , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  . As permitted by
SFAS No. 123, we have elected to continue following the guidance of APB
Opinion No. 25 (as interpreted by FIN 44) for measurement and recognition
of stock-based transactions with employees and non-employee directors. Because
stock options have been granted at exercise prices at least equal to the fair
market value of the stock at the grant date, no compensation cost has been
recognized for stock options issued to employees and non-employee directors
under the stock option plans. Stock-based transactions with non-employees are
accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 123 and related interpretations.  

F-9  

If compensation cost for our stock option and employee stock
purchase plans had been determined based on the fair value at the grant dates,
consistent with the method provided in SFAS No. 148 and SFAS No. 123,
our net loss and net loss per share would have been as follows:  

In December of 2004, the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the acceleration of
the vesting of all of the then outstanding options under all plans. At the time
of this approval all option exercise prices exceeded the public market price of
the underlying common shares. This action resulted in 1,029,500 shares being
accelerated with respect to their original vesting dates. This acceleration
resulted in an additional $737,000 of net compensation expense being included
in the above tables for the year ended December 31, 2004.  

The fair value of options granted under the stock option and
employee stock purchase plans for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004,
and 2003 was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions and results:  

F-10  

Foreign
Currency Translation   

Assets and liabilities of the foreign subsidiary are
translated to U.S. dollars at year-end rates, and the statements of operations
are translated at average exchange rates during the year. Translation adjustments
arising from the translation of the foreign affiliates  net assets into U.S.
dollars were recorded in cumulative other comprehensive income until 1999. During
1999, the foreign subsidiary s functional currency changed to the U.S. dollar
due principally to a significant shift in the amount of activity denominated in
U.S. dollars versus the local currency. All translation adjustments are now
recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. For the year ended December 31,
2005, we expensed the cumulative translation adjustment of $69,000.  

Reclassifications   

Certain amounts previously reported in the 2003 consolidated
financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 and
2004 presentations. These reclassifications had no effect in previously
reported net loss or stockholders  deficit.  

New
Accounting Standards   

In December 2004,
FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),   Share-Based
Payment  , that focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in
which an entity obtains employee services in share-based payment transactions. This
statement replaces SFAS No. 123,   Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation  , and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,
  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  .
Beginning with our quarterly period that begins June 26, 2006, we will be
required to expense the fair value of employee stock options and similar awards.
As a public company, we are allowed to select from two alternative transition
methods, each having different reporting implications. The impact of SFAS No. 123R
has not been determined at this time.  

In June 2005,
FASB issued SFAS No. 154,    Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections   , a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20
and FASB Statement No. 3. The statement applies to all voluntary changes
in accounting principle, and changes the requirements for accounting for and
reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 requires
retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements of a voluntary
change in accounting principle unless it is impracticable. SFAS No. 154 is
effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005. Earlier application is permitted for
accounting changes and corrections of errors made occurring in fiscal years
beginning after June 1, 2005. The statement does not change the transition
provisions of any existing accounting pronouncements, including those that are
in a transition phase as of the effective date of this statement. The Company
does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 154 to have a material effect on
its financial statements.  

F-11  

NOTE 2 -
LOSS PER COMMON SHARE   

Loss per common share is computed in accordance with
SFAS No. 128,   Earnings Per Share  .
Basic loss per share is computed using the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding during each period. Diluted earnings per share include the
dilutive effect of common shares potentially issuable upon the exercise of
stock options, warrants outstanding and the conversion of convertible debt. The
following table reconciles the denominators used in computing basic and diluted
loss per share for the periods reported (in thousands):  

(1)       We reported a loss for the period. No
adjustment was made for the effect of stock options, warrants or convertible
debt as the effect was anti-dilutive. Stock options and warrants outstanding
totaled 5,013,398 shares at December 31, 2005, 3,358,058 shares at December 31,
2004 and 2,882,468 shares at December 31, 2003. We also have potentially
issuable common shares of 5,950,687 related to our 10% Senior Subordinated
Convertible Notes described in Note 7 contained elsewhere herein.  

NOTE 3 -
RESTRUCTURING CHARGES   

The restructuring charges
described below were incurred and paid within the years as set forth below.  

2005 Restructuring Charges   

During the second quarter of 2005, in response
to the continuing downturn in the semiconductor capital equipment market, we
reduced our workforce across all functional areas by approximately 7% resulting
in a restructuring charge of $66,000. This charge reflected severance and other
benefit costs associated with this reduction. This workforce reduction affected
a total of seven employees across all functional areas.  

During the third quarter of 2005, in connection
with our restructuring activities, we reduced our workforce within
manufacturing and sales by approximately 2% resulting in a restructuring charge
of $40,000. This charge reflected severance and other benefit costs associated
with this reduction. This workforce reduction affected a total of two
employees.  

2004 Restructuring Charges   

During
the fourth quarter, in response to a second half 2004 market contraction, we
reduced our workforce by approximately 11% at the time, resulting in a
restructuring charge of $35,000. This charge reflected severance and benefit
costs associated with this reduction. This work force reduction affected a
total of 12 employees principally with the manufacturing function.  

2003
Restructuring Charges   

During
the first quarter, in response to the continued and prolonged downturn in the
semiconductor capital equipment industry, we reduced our workforce across all
functional areas by approximately 24% at the time, resulting in a restructuring
charge of $19,000. This charge reflected severance and other benefit costs  

F-12  

associated with this reduction. This workforce
reduction affected a total of 26 employees across all functional areas.  

During
the second quarter, we completed the restructuring of our master lease for our
St. Paul, MN facility, resulting in a restructuring charge of $227,000, which
included write-offs of $41,000 related to leasehold improvements in the vacated
space which provided no future economic benefit to us. Additionally, we further
reduced our workforce across all functional areas by approximately 4% at the
time, resulting in a restructuring charge of $20,000. This charge reflected
severance and other benefit costs associated with this reduction. This
workforce reduction affected a total of 4 employees across all functional
areas.  

NOTE 4  
FINANCING TRANSACTIONS   

On
March 7, 2003 and March 26, 2003, pursuant to a private equity
placement with a group of accredited investors, we issued a total of 3,166,869
shares of common stock, which resulted in net proceeds to us of approximately
$1.1 million. Stock issuance costs associated with this offering totaled
approximately $241,000. As part of this offering, we also issued warrants
to purchase 253,350 shares of common stock that have a term of five years with
an exercise price of $0.43 per share.  

On June 9,
2003, the Company completed a one-year, $2.5 million secured working capital
line of credit agreement with a bank. The advances bear interest at prime plus
2.0% (6% at December 31, 2003). As of December 31, 2003, $348,000 was
outstanding under this agreement. This loan was terminated in 2004.  

On March 9,
2004, we completed a $5.0 million financing transaction with an institutional
lender, Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. ( Laurus ), secured by all of the assets of
the Company. The financing included a $3.0 million working capital line of
credit and a $2.0 million long-term note. The notes were partially convertible into
shares of our common stock. In connection with the transaction, we issued to
Laurus a seven-year warrant to purchase 400,000 shares of common stock at
exercise prices ranging from $2.30 to $2.88 per share. The secured loan in
existence at that time with a prior lender was terminated.  

On January 28,
2005, we completed an amendment to the financing agreement with Laurus to defer
payments on the long-term convertible note. As part of this amendment, the
conversion prices on both notes were reduced. We also issued Laurus at that
time a seven-year warrant to purchase 150,000 shares of common stock at $.67
per share.  

On April 29,
2005, we completed another financing transaction with Laurus in which we
borrowed an additional $2.5 million, and which was convertible into shares of
common stock. We also issued Laurus at that time an option to purchase
2,556,651 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $.01 per share. We
received net proceeds of approximately $2.4 million at the closing.  

On
February 17, 2006, we again restructured the financing with Laurus, and
increased the total maximum secured indebtedness with Laurus to $9.25 million. The
restructured financing now includes a $5.25 million term note. Interest is
payable monthly on the term note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. Beginning 360
days after closing, we are required to make monthly payments equal to 1/60th of
the principal amount until three years after the closing, at which time the
entire remaining principal and accrued interest is due and payable in full. The
note is non-convertible. In addition to the $5.25 million note, the working
capital line of credit was increased from $3.0 million to $4.0 million, and
made non-convertible. The note is payable in full on March 8, 2008. Interest
is payable monthly on the note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. The existing $1.2
million over-advance in excess of the borrowing base on the working capital
line of credit was extended until April 30, 2007. However, commencing on December 1,
2006, the over-advance is to be reduced by $200,000 each month. The Company
also issued Laurus a 10-year option to purchase 2,500,000 shares at an exercise
price of $.01 per share. The shares issuable upon exercise of the option have
standard registration rights.  

F-13  

NOTE 5  
BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION   

The allowance for
doubtful accounts receivable was as follows (in thousands):  

Provisions are charged to selling,
general and administrative expense.  

Major components of
inventories were as follows (in thousands):  

In accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we
value our inventories at the lower of cost or market.  

The following table
provides the inventory reserves for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004.  

We provide a standard
thirteen month warranty program for our equipment products. We record provisions
for warranty claims for these products based upon historical claim performance.
The following table provides the expense recorded and charges against our
reserves for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.  

F-14  

Property, plant and
equipment were as follows (in thousands):  

NOTE 6 - LONG-TERM DEBT   

Long-term debt and financing obligations were as follows (in
thousands):  

On March 9,
2004, we completed a $5.0 million financing transaction with an institutional
lender, Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. ( Laurus ), secured by all of the assets of
the Company. The financing included a $3.0 million working capital line of
credit and a $2.0 million long-term note. The notes were partially convertible
into shares of our common stock. In connection with the transaction, we issued
to Laurus a seven-year warrant to purchase 400,000 shares of common stock at
exercise prices ranging from $2.30 to $2.88 per share. The secured loan in
existence at that time with a prior lender was terminated.  

On January 28,
2005, we completed an amendment to the financing agreement with Laurus to defer
payments on the long-term convertible note. As part of this amendment, the
conversion prices on both notes were reduced. We also issued Laurus at that
time a seven-year warrant to purchase 150,000 shares of common stock at $.67
per share.  

On April 29,
2005, we completed another financing transaction with Laurus in which we
borrowed an additional $2.5 million, and which was convertible into shares of
common stock. We also issued Laurus at that time an option to purchase
2,556,651 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $.01 per share. We
received net proceeds of approximately $2.4 million at the closing.  

On
February 17, 2006, we again restructured the financing with Laurus, and
increased the total maximum secured indebtedness with Laurus to $9.25 million. The
restructured financing now includes a $5.25 million term note. Interest is
payable monthly on the term note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. Beginning 360
days after closing, we are required to make monthly payments equal to 1/60th of
the principal amount until three years after the closing, at which time the
entire remaining principal and accrued interest is due and payable in full. The
note is non-convertible. In addition to the $5.25 million note, the working
capital line of credit was increased from $3.0 million to $4.0 million, and
made non-convertible. The note is payable in full on March 8, 2008. Interest
is payable monthly on the note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. The existing $1.2
million over-advance in excess of the  

F-15  

borrowing base on the working capital
line of credit was extended until April 30, 2007. However, commencing on December 1,
2006, the over-advance is to be reduced by $200,000 each month. The Company
also issued Laurus a 10-year option to purchase 2,500,000 shares at an exercise
price of $.01 per share. The shares issuable upon exercise of the option have
standard registration rights. The term debt has been classified as long-term
due to the refinancing subsequent to year-end (see Note 12) in accordance with
SFAS 6, Classification of Short-Term Obligations Expected to Be Refinanced as
Amended by ARB No. 43, Chapter 3d.  

In
December 2001, we issued $10.0 million of 10% Senior Subordinated
Convertible Notes due in 2006 to a group of accredited investors. These Notes
were initially convertible into our common stock at a conversion price equal to
$2.60 per share. The Notes are redeemable by us at any time after January 3,
2004 as long as the market price of our common stock equals or exceeds 150% of
the conversion price. Proceeds from the Notes, net of debt issuance costs,
totaled $9.2 million. Holders of the Notes have standard registration rights if
they convert the Notes to common stock. The Note Purchase Agreement between us
and the holders of the Notes contains certain affirmative and negative
covenants. Among other things, these covenants prohibit us from paying dividends
to our shareholders or incurring more than $5.0 million of indebtedness that is
senior to, or ranks the same as the Notes. The covenants also require us to
comply with applicable laws and regulations, maintain a market for our common
stock, and provide the Note holders with copies of our SEC reports and certain
other information. There are no financial covenants related to these Notes. On June 30, 2003, we completed the
restructuring of $9.29 million, or 92.9%, of our 10% Senior Subordinated
Convertible Notes, wherein the participating noteholders agreed to accept stock
in lieu of cash for the next four semi-annual interest payment dates beginning June 30,
2003 through December 31, 2004, and the conversion price for the Notes was
reduced to $1.00 per share.   On February 25, 2005, we completed a second amendment to
the agreement with the holders of our 10% Senior Subordinated Convertible
Notes, wherein holders of 80% of the remaining Notes, representing $2.9 million,
agreed to continue to accept stock in payment of interest for the remaining
four interest payments through December 24, 2006. As part of this
amendment, we agreed to reduce the Note conversion price to $0.85 per share,
and use our best efforts to register the shares with the SEC.   On
April 29, 2005, we completed another financing transaction with Laurus. As
a result of the new financing with Laurus, the conversion price for all of the
Noteholders who accepted the prior restructuring agreements was at that time
reduced to $0.61 per share. During the
year ended December 31, 2004, principal in the amount of $3.71 million and
interest in the amount of $642,000 were converted into 4,364,260 shares of
common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2003, principal in the
amount of $2.66 million and interest in the amount of $553,000 were converted
into 3,667,911 shares of common stock. There was no beneficial conversion of
the Notes payable into common stock as defined in EITF 00-27 of  Application of
Issue No. 98-5 to Certain Convertible Instruments.   

On April 11,
2005, judgement was entered against the Company in Superior Court of California
in the amount of $379,000 plus legal and court costs for a total amount of
$547,000 in a lawsuit brought by a prior landlord. The Company has reached an
agreement with the landlord that will allow the Company to pay the judgement
over a 30-month period for a total amount of $443,000 plus interest at 10% per
annum.  

Payments
due under debt obligations, including additional amounts borrowed subsequent to
year-end (see Note 12) are as follows: 2006 - $3,763,000, 2007 - $1,103,000;
2008 - $1,050,000; and 2009 - $3,325,000.  

NOTE 7 - INCOME TAXES   

The Company incurred
losses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003,
respectively, and recorded no provision for income taxes.  

The
reconciliation of income tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate to
income tax expense recorded in the consolidated financial statements was as
follows:  

F-16  

As of December 31,
2005, we had federal net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards totaling
approximately $36.3 million and tax credit carryforwards of approximately
$122,000 which can be used to reduce future taxable income. Such tax loss and
tax credit carryforwards begin to expire in 2012. Changes in the ownership of
the Company have placed limitations on the annual usage of these NOLs. Future
changes in ownership may place additional limitations on these losses.  

The
components of the deferred tax asset is as follows:  

The
Company has recorded a full valuation allowance against the asset because, in
the opinion of management, it is more like than not that some portion or all of
the deferred tax assets will not be realized.  

NOTE 8
- - ACCOUNTS PAYABLE   LONG TERM   

In July of 2003, we
completed negotiations with the majority of our vendors to extend the payment
terms of the total amounts owed to them at the time. This resulted in $1.2
million of our payables, or 67% of our total accounts payable at the time, being
restructured with a total of 281 vendors. Under the terms of the extended
payment plan, we agreed to make four to eight equal payments beginning on July 30,
2003 until the balances are satisfied. The number of vendors agreeing to this
plan represented approximately 61% of our active vendors. As of December 31,
2005, all scheduled contractual payments have been made under this plan. The following
sets forth the amounts due under this plan:  

F-17  

NOTE 9 - COMMITMENTS
AND CONTINGENCIES   

We lease certain facilities and equipment under various
operating leases. Effective April 1997, we entered into an operating lease
agreement and relocated our headquarters to a new facility in St. Paul,
Minnesota, coinciding with the expiration of the operating lease at our
previous headquarters facility. Under the terms of the new agreement, which
extends through April 2007, we are responsible for base rent and all
operating expenses associated with the portion of the facility that we occupy. The
agreement provides us with a one-time option to cancel the lease after seven
years, at which time we would only be responsible for certain unamortized
build-out costs incurred by the landlord.   In May 2000, we notified our landlord of our intent
to exercise our one-time option to lease the remaining additional 11,000 square
feet within the same building at a date to be mutually determined.   We occupy approximately 54,000 square feet of leased space in
Penang, Malaysia, which is utilized as a manufacturing center for our mature
products. This lease expires in June 2007.  

Total
rent expense charged to operations, primarily for facilities and equipment, was
$615,000, $814,000 and $847,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.  

The future minimum rental
payments at December 31, 2005, due under noncancelable operating leases,
are as follows: 2006 - $571,000; 2007 - $259,000 ; 2008 - $13,000 and zero
thereafter.  

We have an employment
agreement with our Chief Executive Officer that may be terminated upon 60
days written notice by either party. If we terminate the agreement, we shall
continue to pay his salary in effect at date of termination for 12 months
thereafter. We also have an agreement with another executive officer that provides
for severance pay and other remuneration if his employment is terminated or
duties significantly diminished as a result of a change of control.  

NOTE 10 -
STOCK OPTION AND BONUS PLANS AND WARRANTS TO PURCHASE COMMON STOCK   

The
Board of Directors previously reserved a total of 2,600,000 shares of common
stock under the 1993 Incentive Stock Options Plan for key employees. This plan
expired in April 2003 except for outstanding options. In June of
2004, the Board of Directors and shareholders approved the 2004 Incentive Stock
Plan and the reservation of 880,000 shares. Options under the two plans expire
five to ten years from the date of grant and generally vest over a two-year or
four-year period. If an individual ceases employment, he/she has 90 days to
exercise vested options. Options granted in excess of the $100,000 annual IRS
limitations become non-qualified. The Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors at their discretion can grant non-qualified options and restricted
stock to eligible employees. In 2004 and 2003, the Board of Directors granted
155,000 and 1,000,000, respectively, non-qualified options, which are included
in the stock option table below.  

In fiscal 1996, our Board
of Directors and our shareholders approved the Stock Option Plan for Outside
Directors. A total of 570,000 shares have been reserved for issuance under the
plan. Each person who becomes an outside director will automatically be granted
an option to purchase 10,000 shares. In addition, each outside director will
also automatically be granted an option to purchase 10,000 shares immediately
upon each reelection as a director, or on the anniversary of the prior year s
grant in any year in which there is no meeting of the stockholders at which
directors are elected. The period within which an option must be exercised will
be the earlier of (1) ten years from the date of the grant, or (2) the
date which is one year after the director ceases to be a director for any
reason, provided that if a director voluntarily declines to stand for
re-election after the age of 60, he shall not be required to exercise his
options within one year after he ceases to be a director and shall continue to
vest in his options after he ceases to be a director. The exercise price for
each option will be the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant,
and each option will generally vest over a two-year period at 50 percent per
year.  

F-18  

As of December 31,
2005, we have also reserved a total of 9,563,077 shares of common stock for
issuance upon conversion of the Notes described in Note 7. As of December 31,
2005, 6,370,081 shares of stock have been issued from this reserve pursuant to
the conversion features of the Notes described in Note 7.  

As
of December 31, 2005, we have also reserved a total of 2,092,350 shares of
common stock for issuance upon conversions in connection with the secured
financing described in Note 7. As of December 31, 2005, no shares of stock
have been issued from this reserve pursuant to the conversion features of the
convertible debt described in Note 5. Debt subsequently made non-convertible
described in Note 13.  

We
have also reserved 150,000 shares of common stock for the grant of
non-qualified stock options for outside directors, consultants, advisors and
employees.  

F-19  

Shares subject to options
under these plans were as follows:  

Options outstanding at December 31, 2005 had exercise
prices ranging from $0.16 to $11.25 per share as summarized in the following
table:  

F-20  

At December 31, 2005
and 2004, 765,000 shares were available for future grants under the terms of
these plans. In December of 2004, the Compensation Committee of the Board
of Directors approved the acceleration of the vesting of all of the then
outstanding options under all plans. At the time of this approval all option
exercise prices exceeded the public market price of the underlying common
shares. This action resulted in 1,029,500 shares being accelerated with respect
to their original vesting dates.  

In February 1996,
the Board of Directors adopted the Employee Stock Purchase Plan and reserved
300,000 shares of common stock for issuance under the Plan. Eligible employees
can elect under the Plan to contribute between two percent and ten percent of
their base pay each plan year (June 1 - May 31) to purchase shares of
common stock at a price per share equal to 85 percent of market value on the
first day of the plan year or the last day of the plan year, whichever is lower.
Employee contributions are deducted from their regular salary or wages. The
maximum number of shares that can be purchased by an employee in any plan year
is 1,000 shares. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, no shares
were issued under the plan. For the year ended December 31, 2003, 8,000
shares were issued under the plan at a price of $0.37. For the year ended December 31,
2002, 28,551 shares were issued under the plan at prices ranging from $2.59 to
$2.68 at a weighted average price of $2.68. Approximately 122,900 shares remain
reserved for future issuances.  

NOTE 11 - SEGMENT, GEOGRAPHIC, CUSTOMER
INFORMATION AND CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK   

We operate in one industry segment supplying automated
equipment test handlers to the semiconductor industry. Net sales to customers
located in the three geographic regions in which we operate are summarized as
follows (in thousands):  

Although
our primary manufacturing facility is located in Penang, Malaysia, we do not
hold a material amount of long-lived assets outside of the United States. Of
our inventory reflected on the Company balance sheet as of December 31,
2005, $2.5 million was located in our facility in Penang, Malaysia.  

During the year ended December 31,
2005 our top ten customers accounted for approximately 92% of net sales with
three customers accounting for approximately 53.3% and one customer accounting
for approximately 33% of net sales. During the year ended December 31,
2004 our top ten customers accounted for approximately 93% of net sales with
three customers accounting for approximately 65% of net sales and one customer
accounting for approximately 26% of net sales. During the year ended December 31,
2003, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 86% of net sales with
three customers accounting for approximately 50% of net sales and one customer
accounting for approximately 32% of net sales. As of December 31, 2005,
one customer accounted for 55.6% of our total net accounts receivable.  

NOTE 12
  SUBSEQUENT EVENT   

On
February 17, 2006, we restructured the financing with Laurus, and
increased the total maximum secured indebtedness with Laurus to $9.25 million. The
restructured financing now includes a $5.25 million term note. Interest is
payable monthly on the term note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. Beginning 360
days after closing, we are required to make monthly payments equal to 1/60th of
the principal amount until three years after the  

F-21  

closing, at which time the entire remaining
principal and accrued interest is due and payable in full. The note is
non-convertible. In addition to the $5.25 million note, the working capital
line of credit was increased from $3.0 million to $4.0 million, and made
non-convertible. The note is payable in full on March 8, 2008. Interest is
payable monthly on the note at the prime rate plus 2.5%. The existing $1.2
million over-advance in excess of the borrowing base on the working capital
line of credit was extended until April 30, 2007. However, commencing on December 1,
2006, the over-advance is to be reduced by $200,000 each month. The Company
also issued Laurus a 10-year option to purchase 2,500,000 shares at an exercise
price of $.01 per share. The shares issuable upon exercise of the option have
standard registration rights.  

As
a result of the new financing with Laurus, the conversion price for all of the
Noteholders who accepted the prior restructuring agreements has been reduced to
$0.56 per share due to the conversion provision in the Note documents.  

F-22  

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, in
the City of St. Paul, State of Minnesota, on March 30, 2006.  

MICRO COMPONENT TECHNOLOGY, INC.  

By:  

/s/ Roger E.
  Gower  

Roger E. Gower  

President,
  Chief Executive Officer,  

Chairman
  of the Board and Director  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the registrant in the capacities indicated on March 30, 2006.  

Signature   

Capacity   

/s/Roger E.
  Gower  

President, Chief
  Executive Officer,  

Roger E. Gower  

Chairman of the
  Board and Director  

/s/BachThuy T.
  Vo  

Interim Chief
  Financial Officer  

BachThuy T. Vo  

/s/Donald J.
  Kramer  

Director  

Donald J. Kramer  

/s/David M.
  Sugishita  

Director  

David M. Sugishita  

/s/Donald R.
  VanLuvanee  

Director  

Donald R. VanLuvanee  

/s/Patrick
  Verderico  

Director  

Patrick Verderico  

<EX-23.1>
 2
 a06-2044_1ex23d1.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

EXHIBIT 23.1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We consent to the
incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-72508, 333-95765,
333-37641, 033-85766 and 333-117407 of Micro Component Technology, Inc.
(the Company) on Form S-8 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-124762, 
333-104590, 333-108072 and 333-115125 on Form S-2 of our report dated February 3,
2006, (except for Note 12, as to which the date is February 17, 2006),
which expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph
relating to the Company s ability to continue as a going concern, appearing in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Micro Component Technology, Inc.
for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

/s/ Virchow,
  Krause   Company, LLP.  

Minneapolis,
Minnesota  

  March 30,
2006  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 3
 a06-2044_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.1   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER    

I, Roger
E. Gower, certify that:    

1.
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Micro Component
Technology, Inc.:  

2.
Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement
of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;  

3.
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;  

4.
The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15) for the registrant and we
have:  

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;  

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation.  

c) disclosed in this report any changes in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and  

5.
The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors
(or persons performing the equivalent function):  

a) all significant deficiencies and material weakness in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and  

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
controls over financial reporting.  

Dated: March 30,
  2006  

By:  

/s/ Roger E.
  Gower  

Roger E. Gower  
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 4
 a06-2044_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.2   

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER   

I,
BachThuy T. Vo, certify that:  

1.
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Micro Component
Technology, Inc.:  

2.
Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement
of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;  

3.
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;  

4.
The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15) for the registrant and we
have:  

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this quarterly report is being
prepared;  

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation.  

c) disclosed in this report any changes in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and  

5.
The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors
(or persons performing the equivalent function):  

a) all significant deficiencies and material weakness in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and  

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
controls over financial reporting.  

Dated: March 30,
  2006  

By:  

/s/
  BachThuy T. Vo  

BachThuy T. Vo  
  Interim Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 5
 a06-2044_1ex32.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.0   

SECTION 1350
CERTIFICATION   

The
undersigned hereby certify that this report complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and that the information
contained in this report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the Company.  

Dated: March 30,
  2006  

By:  

/s/ Roger E.
  Gower  

Roger E. Gower  
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

Dated: March 30,
  2006  

By:  

/s/ BachThuy T.
  Vo  

BachThuy T. Vo  
  Interim Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32>

