<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_1314358_0001193125-06-069501_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>5021882</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>540796</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3371070</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>897061</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>81</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>26</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-06-069501.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331081129
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-06-069501
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		49
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Universal City Florida Holding Co. I
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001314357
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES [7900]
		IRS NUMBER:				593354262
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			FL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	333-122778
		FILM NUMBER:		06725274

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1000 UNIVERSAL STUDIOS PLAZA
		CITY:			ORLANDO
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			32819-7610
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(407) 363-8000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1000 UNIVERSAL STUDIOS PLAZA
		CITY:			ORLANDO
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			32819-7610

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UCFH II Finance, Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001314360
		IRS NUMBER:				201937798
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			FL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	333-122778-01
		FILM NUMBER:		06725275

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1000 UNIVERSAL STUDIOS PLAZA
		CITY:			ORLANDO
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			32819-7610
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(407) 363-8000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1000 UNIVERSAL STUDIOS PLAZA
		CITY:			ORLANDO
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			32819-7610

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Universal City Florida Holding Co. II
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001314358
		IRS NUMBER:				593354261
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			FL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	333-122778-03
		FILM NUMBER:		06725276

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1000 UNIVERSAL STUDIOS PLAZA
		CITY:			ORLANDO
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			32819-7610
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(407) 363-8000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1000 UNIVERSAL STUDIOS PLAZA
		CITY:			ORLANDO
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			32819-7610

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UCFH I Finance, Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001314359
		IRS NUMBER:				201937766
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			FL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	333-122778-02
		FILM NUMBER:		06725277

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1000 UNIVERSAL STUDIOS PLAZA
		CITY:			ORLANDO
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			32819-7610
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(407) 363-8000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1000 UNIVERSAL STUDIOS PLAZA
		CITY:			ORLANDO
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			32819-7610

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 QENXflwOZ15Z37BI4NFld5szcR6jJXTfBXJwz5wvG9tu5zl2cR9tZwduIUSKadOz
 cbXjfBYD/dlU1/eEzxIxcw==

 0001193125-06-069501.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549             FORM 10-K             (Mark One)    
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005        OR        
     Commission File Number 333-122778             UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I        UCFH I FINANCE, INC.        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II        UCFH II FINANCE, INC.        (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
            
     1000 Universal Studios Plaza        Orlando, FL 32819-7610        407-363-8000        (Address and telephone number of principal executive offices)             Securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:        None.        Securities registered under
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act:        Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2010.        8   3   /  8        % Senior Notes due 2010.             Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No             Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by checkmark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated filer.
See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):     Large
accelerated filer           Accelerated filer           Non-accelerated filer           Indicate by checkmark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2):    Yes           No        
  As of March 30, 2006 there were 100 shares of common stock of both UCFH I Finance, Inc. and UCFH II Finance, Inc., outstanding, all of which were held by
affiliates; not applicable to Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE       None.        

Table of Contents  

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

PART I  

Item 1.   

Business    
      
  3   
 
    Item 1A.   

Risk Factors    
      
  15   
 
    Item 1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  23   
 
    Item 2.   

Properties    
      
  23   
 
    Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings    
      
  24   
 
    Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  24   

PART II    

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
      
  25   
 
    Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data    
      
  25   
 
    Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  27   
 
    Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  39   
 
    Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  42   
 
    Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  66   
 
    Item 9A.   

Controls and Procedures    
      
  66   
 
    Item 9B.   

Other Information    
      
  66   

PART III    

Item 10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant    
      
  67   
 
    Item 11.   

Executive Compensation    
      
  70   
 
    Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  77   
 
    Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions    
      
  77   
 
    Item 14.   

Principal Accounting Fees and Services    
      
  82   

PART IV    

Item 15.   

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  83   

Index to Exhibits    

Signatures    
      
  89   

Certifications  

2   

Table of Contents  

Item 1. Business        Certain definitions       All references in this Form 10-K to   Universal Orlando  ,  we ,  us ,  our , the  Company  or   UCHC   refer to   Holding I  ,
  Holding II  ,   UCFH I Finance   and   UCFH II Finance  , and their respective subsidiaries, collectively the registrant.   Holding I   refers to Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, and
  Holding II   refers to Universal City Florida Holding Co. II.   Holdings   refers collectively to Holding I and Holding II.   UCFH I Finance   refers to UCFH I Finance, Inc., and   UCFH II
Finance   refers to UCFH II Finance, Inc.   Finance   refers to UCFH I Finance and UCFH II Finance collectively.   UCDP   refers to Universal City Development Partners, Ltd., a Florida limited partnership
of which Holding I is the sole limited partner and Holding II is the sole general partner.   Universal Orlando Resort   refers to the resort in Orlando, Florida, which includes our two theme parks (Universal Studios Florida and
Universal s Islands of Adventure), our entertainment complex (Universal CityWalk), and the three themed hotels owned by UCF Hotel Venture (in which Vivendi Universal Entertainment has an indirect minority interest and which are not part of our
financial statements). The Portofino Bay Hotel, a Loews Hotel (or   The Portofino Bay Hotel  ), The Hard Rock Hotel (or   The Hard Rock Hotel  ) and The Royal Pacific Resort, a Loews Hotel (or   The Royal Pacific
Resort  ) comprise the UCF Hotel Venture.   CityWalk   refers to Universal CityWalk located at Orlando, Florida.   UCDP Finance   refers to UCDP Finance, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of UCDP.
  Universal CPM   refers to Universal City Property Management II LLC, one of the partners in Holdings.   NBC Universal   refers to NBC Universal, Inc., the indirect majority parent of Vivendi Universal
Entertainment.   Vivendi Universal Entertainment   refers to Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP, the parent company of Universal CPM and UCDP s manager.   Blackstone   refers collectively to Blackstone UTP
Capital Partners L.P., Blackstone UTP Capital Partners A L.P., Blackstone UTP Offshore Capital Partners L.P. and Blackstone Family Media Partnership III L.P. and their subsidiaries who hold each of their respective interests in and are the
remaining partners in Holdings.   Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations   refers to UCDP s subsidiary Universal City Travel Partners d/b/a Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations.   Universal Parks  
Resorts   refers to a division of Vivendi Universal Entertainment. Our organizational structure is graphically depicted below. The   senior secured credit facility   or   senior secured credit agreement   refers
to the term loan of UCDP (as evidenced by the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of December 9, 2004) which matures in 2011 and is included in our combined financial statements. The   April 2010 notes   refers to the
11.75% senior notes issued by UCDP which mature in April 2010 and are included in our combined financial statements. The   May 2010 notes   refers to the floating rate senior notes and the 8.375% senior notes issued by Holdings and
Finance which mature in May 2010 and are included in our combined financial statements. These long-term borrowings are described more fully in note 3 to our combined financial statements in   Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data .          
   3   

Table of Contents  

4   

Table of Contents  

    Trademarks and Copyrights       Universal Studios Florida, Universal s Islands of Adventure, Universal Studios, Universal Orlando, Universal CityWalk, TWISTER...Ride It Out, Earthquake The Big One, E.T. Adventure, JAWS, The Flying Unicorn, Halloween Horror
Nights, CityWalk, CityJazz and A Vacation from the Ordinary are registered trademarks of Universal Studios. Bob Marley s A Tribute to Freedom, the groove, Revenge of the Mummy and Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations are service
marks of Universal Studios. The Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man, Spider-Man, The Incredible Hulk Coaster, Hulk, Marvel Super Hero Island and Marvel Super Hero character names and likenesses are trademarks and copyrights 2006 of Marvel and
copyrights 2006 of Universal Studios. Barney and A Day in the Park with Barney are trademarks and copyrights 2006 of Lyons Partnership, L.P. The names and characters Barney, Baby Bop, BJ and Super-Dee-Duper are trademarks of Lyons Partnership, L.P.
Barney and BJ are Reg. U.S. Pat.   Tm. Off. Back to the Future and Back To The Future The Ride are registered trademarks and copyrights 2006 of Universal Studios/U Drive J.V. Jurassic Park, Jurassic Park River Adventure, Camp Jurassic,
Pteranodon Flyers, and Jurassic Park Discovery Center are a registered trademarks of Universal Studios/Amblin. Dudley Do Right s Ripsaw Falls is a trademark and copyright of Ward Prods. Popeye   Bluto s Bilge Rat Barges and all
Popeye characters are trademarks and copyrights 2006 of KFS, Inc. and trademarks of Hearst Holdings, Inc. Dr. Seuss properties are trademarks and copyrights of Dr. Seuss Enterprises, L.P. T2 and Terminator are registered
trademarks of StudioCanal Image S.A. Men In Black and Alien Attack are trademarks and copyrights 2006 of Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc. Beetlejuice and Beetlejuice s Graveyard Revue are trademarks and copyrights 2006 of The Geffen Film
Company and Universal Studios. Animal Planet and Animal Planet Live! are registered trademarks of Discovery Communications, Inc. and copyrights 2006 of Discovery Communications, Inc. Fear Factor is a trademark and copyright of Endemol
Netherlands B.V., Inc. Nickelodeon, SpongeBob Squarepants, The Fairly Odd Parents, Hey Arnold!, Rugrats, The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius, Jimmy Neutron s Nicktoon Blast, and all related titles, logos and characters are
trademarks of Viacom International Inc. Woody Woodpecker s KidZone and Woody Woodpecker s Nuthouse Coaster are registered trademarks of Walter Lantz. Shrek and Shrek 4-D are the trademarks and copyrights of DreamWorks Animation, LLC.
Hard Rock Hotel, Hard Rock Cafe and Hard Rock Live are registered trademarks of Hard Rock Cafe International (USA), Inc. Pat O Brien s is a copyright 2006 of Pat O Brien s Bar, Inc. Emeril s is the registered
trademark of Emeril Lagasse. Jimmy Buffett s Margaritaville is the registered trademark of Jimmy Buffett. Latin Quarter is the trademark of Latin Quarter Entertainment, Inc. MOTOWN is the registered trademark of Motown Record Company L.P.
NASCAR Caf  and NASCAR are the registered trademarks of National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing, Inc. Cinnabon is the registered trademark of Cinnabon, Inc. Starbucks is a registered trademark of Starbucks Coffee Company.
Dapy and Glow! are the registered trademarks of Spencer Gifts, LLC. Fossil is the registered trademark of Fossil, Inc. Fresh Produce is the registered trademark of Fresh Produce, Inc. Quiet Flight is the registered trademark of Quiet
Flight Surf Shop, Inc. The Endangered Species Store is the registered trademark of Kupono Investment, Inc. NBA City is the registered trademark of NBA Properties, Inc. Walt Disney World, The Magic Kingdom, EPCOT, Disney-MGM Studios
and Disney s Animal Kingdom are registered trademarks and service marks of Disney Enterprises, Inc. Wet n Wild is the registered trademark of Wet n Wild, Inc. SeaWorld, Discovery Cove and Busch Gardens are registered trademarks
of Busch Entertainment Corporation.       General       We own
and operate two theme parks, Universal Studios Florida and Universal s Islands of Adventure, and CityWalk, a dining, retail and entertainment complex, at Universal Orlando Resort, a multi-day vacation destination. Universal Orlando Resort also
includes three themed hotels, The Portofino Bay Hotel, a Loews Hotel, The Hard Rock Hotel and The Royal Pacific Resort, a Loews Hotel, which are located within walking distance of our theme parks and CityWalk. These hotels are owned by UCF Hotel
Venture, in which Vivendi Universal Entertainment has an indirect minority interest. The results of the UCF Hotel Venture are not contained in our financial statements. The resort is located in Orlando, Florida. Our theme parks combine well-known
movie, TV, comic and story book characters with exciting and technologically advanced rides and attractions.       Universal Studios Florida    
  Universal Studios Florida is a movie-based theme park designed to allow guests to become part of their favorite movies. Universal Studios Florida features a total of
19 rides, attractions and shows along with facades of famous film locations. Some of our current rides and shows are:       

Revenge of the Mummy    SM   : Guests plunge
into total darkness, as they face fireballs, beetles and an army of mummies on a psychological thrill ride. This ride won  Best New Attraction  in 2004 by Theme Park Insider. Additionally, it received a Thea Attraction Award in 2005 as
awarded by the Themed Entertainment Association.           
   5   

Table of Contents  

Fear Factor Live : Guests have the opportunity to see if they have what it takes to conquer their fears in the unscripted, unpredictable and unlike anything you have ever seen
before theme park experience, which is the first based on a reality show. This attraction opened in 2005.         

Shrek 4-D         :  Guests join Shrek , Donkey and Princess Fiona          on an all new  4-D  adventure that picks up where DreamWorks  Oscar  winning movie left off. During 2005, we doubled the capacity of this attraction.         

JAWS :  A multi-sensory water-based ride adventure which brings guests face to face with a three ton great white shark during a boat ride off the coast of Amity.

Jimmy Neutron s Nicktoon Blast         :  A wild rocket chase through the world of some favorite Nicktoons , such as SpongeBob SquarePants  and the Rugrats .         

Earthquake  The Big One:  The attraction that introduces visitors to the world of special effects as they experience an 8.3 Richter Scale quake from a San Francisco
subway train.         

E.T. Adventure :  Guests climb aboard star bound bicycles to help E.T. save his dying planet and continue the saga of one of the world s most beloved screen
characters.         

Terminator 2 : 3D Battle Across Time:  A cyber-adventure attraction that puts guests in the middle of the action with live stunts and high-tech special effects.

Twister...Ride It Out :  The attraction that puts guests a mere 20 feet away from the awesome spectacle of a five-story tornado including intensifying winds and pounding
rain in an indoor vortex.         

Men In Black          Alien Attack         :  The world s first life-size, ride-through interactive video game where guests zap aliens and compete with each other for high scores.         

Beetlejuice s Graveyard Revue         :  A revue-style show featuring the official Universal monsters such as Frankenstein, Dracula and The Wolfman singing and dancing to rock  n roll classics.

A Day in the Park with Barney         :  A sing-along interactive show where children can see Barney   , Baby Bop          and BJ    live every day.        The streets of Universal Studios Florida feature facades recreating famous movie locations in San Francisco, New York and Hollywood. These facades recreate the  backlot  and are used as locations for filmed entertainment
productions. We believe Universal Studios Florida also appeals to younger children with attractions such as Woody Woodpecker s KidZone          and A Day in the Park with Barney, featuring an interactive show and play area for pre-schoolers. At Jimmy Neutron s Nicktoon Blast, kids can
board rockets and blast off on a wild chase through the worlds of their favorite Nicktoons, while Fear Factor Live and Beetlejuice s Rock  n Roll Graveyard Revue provide entertainment for all ages.      As of December 31, 2005, food and beverage facilities at Universal Studios Florida included two full service restaurants, four cafeteria-style facilities, for a
total of more than 3,800 seats, and 12 fast-food stands.       Universal s Islands of Adventure       With 18 rides, attractions and shows (with one ride currently under construction), Universal s Islands of Adventure was selected as the  World s Top Theme
Park  by Theme Park Insider in three of the last four years. This park combines advanced technology, innovative ride design and popular themes and characters to provide guests with exciting entertainment experiences drawn from the great stories
of comics, movies, myth and books.      Visitors enter Universal s Islands of Adventure through a Port of Entry          where they begin their journey through the themed islands of the park. In this area,
visitors find numerous street merchants, shops and restaurants. Once through the Port of Entry, our guests have a panoramic view across a large central lagoon surrounded by five distinct and individually themed islands:       

Seuss Landing         :  The beloved characters of Dr. Seuss come to life in Seuss Landing with rides and attractions such as The Cat In The Hat         , Caro-Seuss-el         , One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish          and If I Ran The Zoo         . In early summer of 2006, we plan to open a new ride, The High In The Sky Seuss Trolley Train Ride         , allowing guests to travel above Seuss Landing.         

The Lost Continent :  In The Lost Continent, visitors participate in rides and attractions featuring epic heroes and their many adventures, including Dueling Dragons ,
the world s first double roller coaster; Poseidon s Fury , an           
   6   

Table of Contents  

   expedition of explorers that rediscovers a legendary lost underwater city; and the Eighth Voyage of
Sindbad , a live-action stunt showcase, which combines stunts, pyrotechnic effects and high seas heroics. The marketplace at The Lost Continent surrounds visitors with games of skill and chance, numerous themed shops, and live entertainment.

Jurassic Park :  Visitors to Jurassic Park encounter the mysteries and wonders of a prehistoric world. The Jurassic Park River Adventure  takes guests on a raft ride
tour through Jurassic Park s dinosaur habitats. Camp Jurassic  provides children with a prehistoric playground of dinosaur net traps while the Pteranodon Flyers  coaster ride soars overhead. The Jurassic Park Discovery Center 
features entertaining and educational hands-on activities designed for the whole family to enjoy.         

Toon Lagoon :  In Toon Lagoon, a line-up of popular comic strip and cartoon characters come to life on rides and attractions such as Popeye and Bluto s Bilge-Rat
Barges , where passengers white-water raft around Popeye s island in pursuit of Popeye , Bluto         , Olive Oyl          and Swee  Pea; and Dudley Do-Right s Ripsaw Falls , a high-speed log flume ride featuring appearances by the cast of characters from the Dudley Do-Right animated television series.

Marvel Super Hero Island :  Visitors to Marvel Super Hero Island discover superheroes and arch villains locked in battle in a place where good always triumphs over evil.
Marvel Super Hero Island  employs a combination of motion simulation and theatrical production techniques to create a unique theme park experience for our guests with such rides as The Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man , voted  Best
Overall Attraction  by Theme Park Insider in 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005; the Incredible Hulk Coaster , named the number one steel coaster in the world by the Discovery Channel on  Top Ten Coasters  in May 2002; and
Dr. Doom s Fearfall , where guests skyrocket 150 feet straight up and then plunge back to earth in less than 3 seconds.        As of
December 31, 2005, food and beverage facilities at Universal s Islands of Adventure included two full service restaurants, five cafeteria-style facilities, providing a total of more than 3,600 seats, and 15 fast-food and beverage stands.
Universal s Islands of Adventure also features Mythos, our award winning sit down restaurant that was named  World s Best Theme Park Restaurant  by Theme Park Insider in 2004 and 2005.       CityWalk       CityWalk is a diverse collection of restaurants, retail
outlets, nightclubs and a 20-screen cineplex located between the entrances to both Universal Studios Florida and Universal s Islands of Adventure. The 30-acre complex offers free general admission, except for cover charges for admission to
various night clubs or shows. General parking is free after 6:00 p.m. except on designated special event nights. Easily accessible by foot or boat from the three on-site hotels and our theme parks, CityWalk s restaurants and storefronts
offer a selection of daytime dining and shopping opportunities. In the evening, as guests emerge from our theme parks, CityWalk provides a comprehensive array of nighttime entertainment facilities, including dance clubs and live entertainment.
Patrons of CityWalk can enjoy:       

A wide variety of table service restaurants including Emeril s  of Orlando, Hard Rock Cafe  Orlando, Jimmy Buffett s  Margaritaville , Latin Quarter         , NASCAR Cafe          and NBA City , along with numerous fast-food venues featuring various themes
designed to cater to a wide variety of tastes. In early summer 2006, Bubba Gump s Shrimp Co. Restaurant and Market, which is a seafood restaurant based on the successful movie Forrest Gump, will be opening.         

Nightclubs such as Bob Marley s A Tribute to Freedom   SM   , CityJazz , the groove   SM    and Pat O Brien s  Orlando that offer guests an array of
music from reggae to blues, as well as other live entertainment and dancing; Jimmy Buffett s  Margaritaville  and Latin Quarter          also turn into nightclubs after 11:00 p.m.         

The Hard Rock Live!  Orlando concert venue, which has featured such acts as Elton John, Elvis Costello, Maroon 5, Indigo Girls, Bonnie Raitt, Moody Blues, and Sheryl Crow.

Retail stores, such as Island Clothing Co., The Endangered Species Store , Fresh Produce , Fossil  and Quiet Flight  Surf Shop.         

A 20-screen movie theater which ranks second in Orlando market share.           
   7   

Table of Contents  

   As of December 31, 2005, there were 31 facilities at CityWalk. We owned and operated 13 of these facilities and
leased 18 to third parties and affiliated entities. We managed three of the facilities that we leased to third parties pursuant to management agreements (one of these facilities closed ceased operations in January 2006). We also have an ownership
interest in the form of joint ventures for three of the entities that lease establishments from us.       Seasonal Events       Universal Studios Florida and Universal s Islands of Adventure hold a number of seasonal events in addition to the normal operations previously described. These
events include our Macy s Parade where we recreate the pageantry of the classic holiday parade, Mardi Gras where we set up our own French Quarter with authentic cuisine and musicians straight from The Big Easy, and Halloween Horror Nights where
we transform the park into a nightmarish realm filled with terrifying haunted houses, scare zones, and hordes of ghoulish creatures lurking in the shadows.       Intellectual property       UCDP licenses the right to use a substantial number of intellectual properties as walk-around characters and as
themed elements in rides, attractions, food and retail outlets as well as on merchandise developed by or for us. UCDP s rights to use third party intellectual property are of critical importance to our operations and currently cost us a minimum
of $4.6 million annually. We have acquired the right to use the majority of this intellectual property pursuant to the terms of UCDP s partnership agreement which has been confirmed by a separate License Agreement (the  Universal License
Agreement ) with Universal Studios, Inc. and Universal City Studios LLLP, an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi Universal Entertainment, and certain of their affiliates, collectively referred to as the  Universal License
Parties.  UCDP also licenses various intellectual property rights directly from unaffiliated third parties.      The Universal License Agreement grants
UCDP a non-exclusive right to use the name  Universal  in connection with the operation of our theme parks and the non-exclusive right to use all proprietary and creative elements controlled by the Universal License Parties, including
third party licensed rights. The rights under the Universal License Agreement are granted to UCDP without cost, except for reimbursement of costs paid by the Universal License Parties to unaffiliated third parties to obtain or maintain third-party
licenses, and are subject to third party contractual limitations. The Universal License Agreement also provides that UCDP will be informed of the status of negotiations relating to potential acquisitions of proprietary creative elements for possible
new attractions at our theme parks.      Under the Universal License Agreement, UCDP s right to use the Universal name in connection with Universal
Orlando continues indefinitely at no cost to us until 30 months after the date that (i) Universal CPM is no longer a wholly owned subsidiary of Universal Studios, Inc., Vivendi Universal Entertainment or any of their respective
affiliates or (ii) neither Vivendi Universal Entertainment, Universal Studios, Inc., nor any wholly-owned subsidiary of Universal Studios, Inc. or Vivendi Universal Entertainment, is a partner in or is a partner in a partnership which
is a partner in UCDP, unless otherwise consented to by Vivendi Universal Entertainment or Universal Studios, Inc. The right to use the creative and proprietary elements controlled by the Universal License Parties continues at no cost to us,
subject to third party contractual limitations, until such time as Universal Studios, Inc., Vivendi Universal Entertainment or any of their affiliates ceases to have a partnership interest in Holding II, provided that such license will not
expire with respect to any creative and proprietary elements then licensed to UCDP for so long as we continue to operate our theme parks to a standard substantially consistent with the standard they were operated at the time Universal
Studios, Inc. or any of their affiliates ceased to have a partnership interest in Holding II.      Intellectual
properties licensed to UCDP under the Universal License Agreement include the following:       

The Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man  Doctor Doom s Fearfall  The Incredible Hulk Coaster  and Storm Force Acceletron  licensed by Marvel
Characters, Inc.         

The Cat in the Hat         , If I Ran the Zoo         , One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish          and Caro-Seuss-el         
and all other Dr. Seuss-related thematic elements licensed by Dr. Seuss Enterprises.         

Shrek , as seen in Shrek 4-D         , licensed by DreamWorks Animation, LLC.         

Popeye   Bluto s Bilge-Rat Barges  and Olive Oyl          licensed by King Features, a division of The Hearst Corporation.           
   8   

Table of Contents  

Dudley Do-Right s Ripsaw Falls  licensed by Jay Ward Productions.         

Various Nickelodeon elements licensed by MTV Networks including certain characters and elements used in the Jimmy Neutron s Nicktoon Blast          attraction.        The intellectual property rights UCDP licenses vary in term, some lasting for as long as the relevant attraction is operational with others expiring periodically over
the next several years. The intellectual property rights granted to UCDP pursuant to the Universal License Agreement and our other third party license agreements generally include the right to use all creative elements, trademarks, trade names and
characters in theming for rides and attractions and in retail outlets, and to feature them as walk-around characters. Most of UCDP s license agreements are subject to customary approval rights concerning the design of merchandise and marketing
materials using the themed elements owned by the licensors. Most of UCDP s intellectual property rights, whether acquired directly or pursuant to the Universal License Agreement, require the payment of basic license and royalty fees to
unaffiliated third parties on merchandise manufactured by or for us that include the licensed elements and are generally terminable if UCDP breaches by failing to maintain quality standards or use the properties in accordance with the license. While
some intellectual properties used at our theme parks and the full scope of our present use of some intellectual properties may not be covered by formal licenses, we believe UCDP s rights to use these intellectual properties are secured on the
basis of custom, practice and knowledge of the relevant intellectual property owners. We believe that UCDP s rights to the intellectual properties we use at our theme parks are sufficient for the current operation of our business.   
  The following is a brief description of some of the material license agreements entered into by Universal Studios, Inc. or its affiliates through which UCDP
sublicenses the right to use certain of its themed elements:       Marvel       Universal Studios, Inc. has a license agreement with Marvel Characters, Inc. pursuant to which UCDP holds a sublicense to use properties and elements owned by Marvel. Marvel receives an annual license fee
and a guaranteed annual royalty fee for all merchandise themed with Marvel characters. Pursuant to the license agreement, the Marvel properties are entitled to certain levels of advertising and publicity in connection with the marketing of our theme
parks. Our use of the Marvel elements for theming, promotions and other purposes are subject to Marvel s reasonable approval. We have geographical exclusivity east of the Mississippi River with regard to the specific Marvel characters we
utilize. The license for the Marvel properties does not prohibit its assignment and is for the duration of our use of attractions themed around Marvel characters.       Dr. Seuss       Universal Studios, Inc. has a license agreement with Dr. Seuss Enterprises, L.P. pursuant to which we obtain the
right to use characters owned by Dr. Seuss Enterprises. Universal Studios, Inc. has world wide theme park exclusivity for use of the Dr. Seuss elements with the proviso that Universal Studios, Inc. will not develop or operate
more than three theme parks based on Dr. Seuss elements in the United States, as well as a non-exclusive license to make and sell Dr. Seuss themed merchandise. Dr. Seuss Enterprises is paid a guaranteed yearly merchandise royalty that
varies with the paid attendance at our theme parks for the applicable year. The license will continue for so long as the Dr. Seuss properties are used in our theme parks and is assignable to a successor owner of theme parks containing
Dr. Seuss elements.       DreamWorks       The term of the
license agreement that Universal Studios, Inc. had with DreamWorks, L.L.C. and DreamWorks Animation, LLC, pursuant to which we held a sublicense allowing us to incorporate certain properties and elements owned or controlled by DreamWorks into
our theme parks, was terminated on January 31, 2006; however the agreement provides for certain rights to be retained by Universal Studios Inc. under the  Post-Term Exploitation of Properties  section of such agreement. Pursuant to
this section, we continue to hold a sublicense which allows us to continue to operate our Shrek 4-D          attraction, use certain strolling characters, and develop and sell merchandise based upon DreamWorks properties we used prior to January 31, 2006, as long as we continue to pay to
DreamWorks the applicable annual fees and merchandise royalties for such use. Additionally, if we want to exploit any other properties released by DreamWorks or DreamWorks Animation on or prior to January 31, 2006, we will need to give notice
to DreamWorks, and commence paying the applicable fees, by the later of January 31, 2007 or the third anniversary of the domestic release by DreamWorks of such other property. We have no rights with respect to any DreamWorks or DreamWorks
Animation properties released after January 31, 2006.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

    King Features       Universal City Studios LLLP, a subsidiary of Universal Studios. Inc., has a license agreement with King Features, a division of The Hearst Corporation, pursuant to which we obtain the right to use certain characters, such as
Popeye , Bluto          and Olive Oyl         . We have a license to use the King Features elements
for our theme park attractions, advertising, publicity and marketing, subject to reasonable approval rights of King Features, until 2019, with options to renew in ten-year successive increments so long as we continue to operate a Popeye  themed
attraction. The license is assignable and Universal City Studios LLLP has theme park exclusivity within the United States and Canada with respect to the use of the characters and a non-exclusive right to manufacture and sell related merchandise.
King Features receives an annual fee, of which 66   2   /  3        % is considered an advance guarantee against a merchandise royalty.        Competition       The Orlando theme park market is extremely competitive, with the highest concentration of theme parks per square mile in the
world. There are currently seven major theme parks in Orlando. The Walt Disney Company owns four of these: Disney s Magic Kingdom , Epcot , Disney-MGM Studios and Disney s Animal Kingdom . The Magic Kingdom, Disney s
original Orlando theme park, targets families with young children and benefits from strong brand recognition of their flagship icon, Mickey Mouse. Epcot is a tour through the countries of the world, Disney-MGM Studios is a movie-based theme park and
Disney s Animal Kingdom is an animal based theme park featuring both live and imaginary animal attractions. In addition, Anheuser Busch has a Sea World  water park and the Discovery Cove  dolphin swim experience in Orlando. Due partly
to its longer operating history within the theme park industry, Disney has the highest level of unaided awareness in the theme park industry and commands the majority market share. In 2005, Disney accompanied their 50   th    anniversary with a large scale advertising campaign, the introduction of new attractions, deeply discounted tickets for long
length of stay tickets and discounted onsite hotel packages. In January 2006, we introduced marketing strategies including an enhanced website featuring passes allowing one child under the age of nine free admission with the purchase of one adult
multi-day pass.      The Orlando theme parks compete with other theme parks around the country as well as other forms of entertainment and recreation around
the world. These include sports and outdoor activities and other vacation travel (cruises, beaches, etc.). Other principal competitive factors of a theme park include location, price, uniqueness and quality of the rides and attractions,
entertainment value, general atmosphere and cleanliness.       Guests to our theme parks       Guests to our theme parks can be divided into three distinct points of origin: U.S. visitors from outside of Florida, international visitors and Florida residents. Our largest market is U.S. visitors from outside of
Florida, representing 43% of our admissions in 2005. We have actively pursued this market by employing media campaigns (such as our  A Vacation from the Ordinary  television commercials), partnering with travel agencies and enhancing our
Internet marketing with the goal of increasing prepaid multi-day pass sales. In 2005, 33% of our admissions were international visitors, approximately 67% of whom came from the United Kingdom. We encourage these international guests to buy prepaid
multi-day passes by using a number of incentives, such as extended length of stay tickets and coupons for food and merchandise. We also partner with a number of major tour operators, particularly in the United Kingdom. In 2005, 24% of our admissions
were Florida residents. We have a series of special events to attract Florida residents to our theme parks during the non-peak seasons. Examples of these events include  Halloween Horror Nights  ,  Mardi Gras  and the
 Macy s Holiday Parade . To capitalize on the strength of these events, we have introduced annual pass programs in a further effort to maximize attendance from the Florida market. The following table summarizes our paid attendance by
point of origin during our last three fiscal years (in millions):       
       
   10   

Table of Contents  

    Marketing and sales       In order to increase the number of visitors to our theme parks, we utilize various sales and marketing channels including Internet sales channels, our subsidiary travel company (Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations), sales to
timeshare operators, the establishment of joint marketing partnerships and other niche channels such as group sales. In addition, we also benefit from significant marketing spending by corporate sponsors on our behalf. Our sales and marketing
expense for 2005 was $72.8 million. Our marketing activities are heavily weighted toward the key vacation planning period of February to May. We launched a new national marketing campaign at the beginning of 2002 to advertise Universal Orlando
as  A Vacation from the Ordinary.  This message was aimed at building awareness for the resort as a whole (and not just our theme parks), especially to visitors from outside of Florida. We believe the campaign was successful in driving
increases in awareness, which led to attendance growth from many of our targeted markets through 2004. In January 2006 we introduced a new marketing campaign which identifies Universal Orlando as  A Better Vacation for Today s
Families.  This campaign provides the consumer with greater clarity on our points of competitive advantage.       Internet sales       Approximately 53% of our theme park guests use the Internet to gather information about us and Internet sales account for approximately 13% of our 2005 theme park pass
revenue. An extensive redesign of our website was completed on January 30, 2006. Numerous graphical, copy and navigational modifications to our website have been made to strengthen brand linkage and increase ticket conversions to our online
ticket store which returned to in-house management during 2005. Our online strategy also includes search engine optimization to enhance our message online while tying into our offline marketing and sales campaigns in order to increase brand
recognition.       Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations       Our subsidiary, Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations, serves as our own wholesale and consumer direct travel company and accounted for approximately 8% of our 2005 theme park pass revenue. Universal Parks   Resorts
Vacations primarily sells travel packages directly to consumers and through travel industry sales. This includes organizing vacation packages, including theme park passes to Universal Studios Florida and Universal s Islands of Adventure,
reservations for hotel accommodations and rental car transportation. In addition, Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations operates its own travel website, and guest service desks at approximately 40 locations, primarily at key hotels in
Orlando. Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations is also expanding its presence on the Internet with more than 30% of their total revenue resulting from online consumer direct bookings. This is a result of greater presence and focus on vacation
packages through our website.       Timeshare operators and other distribution channels       A significant portion of our pass revenue is generated through our relationships with timeshare operators in the Orlando area. Many timeshare operators purchase passes from us at a discounted price in order to offer
those passes to consumers as a reward for taking a tour of their timeshare properties. We also sell discounted passes to timeshare operators for sale to visitors of their timeshare properties. Pass sales from the timeshare sales channel constituted
approximately 13% of our 2005 theme park pass revenue. A majority of these passes are sold by a small group of major timeshare operators in the Orlando area. In addition, we have several other primary distribution channels, including AAA, which has
approximately 60 distribution locations that we use across North America and accounted for approximately 4% of 2005 theme park pass revenue, hotel guest service desks which accounted for approximately 3% of 2005 theme park pass revenue and other key
domestic and international travel operators.       Corporate sponsorships       We enter into sponsorship agreements and benefit from sponsorship agreements entered into by Vivendi Universal Entertainment and NBC Universal and their affiliates with national and international companies that
provide us with significant marketing exposure but do not require significant cash expenditure on our part. The following is a brief summary of some of the major sponsorship agreements that benefit our business.       The Coca-Cola Company       The Coca-Cola Company has been granted certain
designations, such as, the  Official Soft Drink, Fruit Juice and Sports Drinks of Universal Studios Florida, Universal s Islands of Adventure and CityWalk,  and has been given exclusive marketing, advertising and associational rights
in the soft drink, sports drink and juice categories with respect to Universal Studios Florida, Universal s Islands of Adventure and CityWalk and has exclusive product availability with respect to soft drinks, juices and sports drinks sold at
Universal Studios Florida, Universal s Islands of Adventure and those portions of CityWalk wholly owned or controlled by us or our affiliates. In return, Coca-Cola pays annual sponsorship fees and established a marketing fund for joint
promotional activities benefiting us as well as certain other affiliates. This sponsorship agreement continues through December 31, 2012.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

    Kodak       Under an
agreement with the Eastman Kodak Company ( Kodak ) that expired on December 31, 2005, Kodak was granted the right to market itself as the  Official Imaging Products  of our theme parks and CityWalk, designated as a sponsor
of Woody Woodpecker s Nuthouse Coaster  at Universal Studios Florida and The Flying Unicorn  at Universal s Islands of Adventure and was granted exclusive product sales, advertising and promotion rights at Universal Studios
Florida, Universal s Islands of Adventure and those portions of CityWalk wholly owned or controlled by us or our affiliates. Kodak also had a right of first refusal to provide and operate all  image capturing businesses  at our theme
parks at its sole expense plus a concession fee payable to us. In return, Kodak paid annual sponsorship fees, established an annual marketing fund benefiting us as well as certain other affiliates of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and constructed
image capture kiosks at our theme parks. In March 2006, we signed an agreement with Colorvision International, Inc. to replace Kodak in our theme parks and CityWalk.       MasterCard       MasterCard has been granted exclusive marketing and advertising rights as the  Official Card 
of our theme parks and certain other Universal properties owned by our affiliates. In return, MasterCard pays annual sponsorship fees and has committed to certain minimum marketing and promotional expenditures benefiting us as well as certain other
affiliates of Vivendi Universal Entertainment. This sponsorship agreement continues through December 31, 2007.       JPMorgan Chase Bank    
  JPMorgan Chase Bank has been granted the right to market itself as the  Official Bank  or the  Official Bank Sponsor  of, and to install and
operate ATM machines at, Universal Studios Florida, Universal s Islands of Adventure and CityWalk and certain other Universal properties owned by our affiliates. JPMorgan Chase Bank is also designated as the sponsor of the Twister... Ride it
Out  attraction at Universal Studios Florida and the Jurassic Park River Adventure  attraction at Universal s Islands of Adventure and has been given exclusive marketing, advertising and associational rights in the retail banking
products and services categories with respect to our theme parks, CityWalk and certain other Universal properties owned by affiliates. In return, JPMorgan Chase Bank pays annual sponsorship and ATM fees and has committed to certain minimum marketing
and promotional expenditures benefiting us as well as certain other Universal affiliates. This sponsorship agreement continues through November 27, 2007. In addition to this sponsorship agreement, JPMorgan Chase Bank has entered into a domestic
marketing alliance agreement with UCDP and other Universal affiliates to create a co-branded credit card. We share revenue from card acquisition and card usage and participate in joint advertising and marketing programs. This alliance continues
through November 27, 2007.       Nestle Waters       Nestle
Waters has been granted the right to market itself as the  Official Bottled Water of Universal Studios Florida, Universal s Islands of Adventure and CityWalk,  and has been designated as a sponsor of Shrek 4-D         , and has exclusive product availability with respect
to bottled water at Universal Studios Florida, Universal s Islands of Adventure and those portions of CityWalk wholly owned or controlled by us or our affiliates. Nestle Waters pays annual sponsorship fees and has committed to minimum marketing
and promotional expenditures benefiting us as well as certain other affiliates of Universal Parks   Resorts. The sponsorship agreement continues through December 31, 2012.       Volkswagen       Volkswagen has been granted the right to market itself as the  Official Car/SUV/Vehicle of Universal
Studios , designated as a sponsor of  Revenge of the Mummy  SM      , and incorporated into the signage at attraction entrance sights, car displays and on theme park brochures at Universal Studios Florida, Universal s Islands of Adventure and those portions of CityWalk wholly owned or controlled
by us or our affiliates. Volkswagen pays annual sponsorship fees and has committed to minimum marketing and promotional expenditures benefiting us as well as certain other affiliates of NBC Universal. The sponsorship agreement continues through
May 31, 2008 with Volkswagen having the option to extend for an additional two years.          
   12   

Table of Contents  

    Seasonality       Our
business is seasonal. Though the weather in Orlando allows us to admit customers on almost every day of the year, our attendance follows a seasonal pattern which coincides closely with holiday and school schedules. We address this seasonality by
attempting to attract business during non-peak times and by reducing variable expenses during non-peak times.      We attempt to increase attendance during
traditionally slow months in a number of ways. For instance, we try to increase attendance by local customers by coordinating special events. Halloween Horror Nights  in October covers approximately 20 nights and significantly increases our
local attendance. In another effort to boost local attendance and mitigate the effects of seasonality, we host our Mardi Gras special event every Saturday from late February to early April. Other initiatives include renting the parks to corporate
customers for after-hour events, providing discount ticket offers to Florida residents and packaging hotel-inclusive special deals to stimulate customers who do not live in the Orlando area but are close enough to drive.      The Atlantic Ocean hurricane season begins in June and ends in November of each year. Historically, hurricanes have had little impact on Orlando theme parks. From 1991
to 2003, our parks had been closed only once due to the inclement weather caused by hurricanes. However over the past two seasons, we have closed our parks on four days as a result of hurricanes.      We also attempt to reduce variable expenses by making a number of operational adjustments during non-peak periods. For example, we reduce our operating hours based on
anticipated attendance, opening at 9 a.m. and closing as early as 5 p.m. Also, attractions, shows, restaurants and stores are operated at reduced capacity.      We also carefully tailor our staffing levels. For example, we only hire enough full-time employees to provide a full schedule during our non-peak periods. Increased labor requirements are handled through casual and
seasonal employees, overtime and other approaches, such as having our full-time employees who do not normally work in the park, such as our maintenance and support staff, fulfill shifts in the parks during peak times, or hiring employees from
retirement communities. We also minimize our labor requirements by categorizing days, for purposes of staffing, based on estimated attendance at our theme parks. For each potential operating hour combination we have low, medium and high attendance
levels, and we develop staffing grids to meet the capacity requirements of each particular situation.       Capital improvements       We regularly make capital investments in new rides and attractions and the enhancement of existing rides and attractions. We believe these investments are critical in
maintaining our position of having technologically advanced theme parks and to effectively compete with our competitors. We currently plan to invest between $50.0 million and $60.0 million on an annual basis both to provide ongoing capital
support for our existing park attractions and infrastructure, and also to fund the development of new park attractions and infrastructure. These costs can vary from one year to the next, and as a result some years may be above or below that range
depending on the timing of the construction cycles. Due to project timing, we spent $30.4 million on capital expenditures during 2005, thus we estimate our capital expenditures to be approximately $65.0 million during 2006.      In order to ensure the creative content of Universal movies is successfully translated into our newly developed rides and attractions, a worldwide creative team from
Universal Parks   Resorts, Universal Creative, provides design and oversight for all new capital initiatives in our theme parks. For our rides and attractions that are also developed for other Universal theme parks, research and development
costs are allocated pro rata among the various Universal theme parks that are building the same ride or attraction.       Maintenance and inspection
      We maintain and develop our rides in accordance with standards developed by ASTM International for the design, manufacture, testing, operation,
maintenance and inspection of amusement rides and devices. ASTM International is a not-for-profit organization that provides a global forum for the development and publication of voluntary consensus standards for design, materials, products, systems
and services that are widely accepted within our industry. We use a computerized maintenance management system to manage our maintenance program, which includes daily, monthly and yearly inspections and extensive preventative maintenance.
     Our in-house inspectors are certified by the National Association of Amusement Ride Safety Officials. Our in-house inspectors conduct regular inspections
and file annual inspection affidavits with the State of Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, or the  FDA.  We have a memorandum of understanding with the FDA pursuant to which our inspection and maintenance personnel
conduct up to two consultations per year at our theme parks with FDA officials and representatives from other major Florida theme parks. During those site visits, our in-house inspectors consult with the FDA on our ride safety programs and conduct
an educational seminar for the FDA inspectors on recent developments in amusement ride technology and safety. We also report certain ride injuries to the FDA pursuant to the memorandum of understanding.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

   Federal legislation has been proposed to grant the federal Consumer Products Safety Commission jurisdiction to regulate
fixed amusement park rides and attractions. Such regulation could result in increased costs for compliance and the unavailability of rides in the event of an incident investigation.       Park operations       Although our theme parks are open almost every day of the year, we adjust our hours of operation, as
well as our staffing levels, based on expected attendance. The management of the day-to-day operation of our theme parks by our management team is overseen by UCDP s manager, Vivendi Universal Entertainment, pursuant to the terms of UCDP s
partnership agreement.       Principal Products        Pass
sales       In connection with our strategy to maximize incremental revenue and profit opportunities, we regularly review our pass price levels and mix of
pass category sales to capitalize on opportunities to implement selective price adjustments. We currently offer a number of pass options to our theme park guests. We offer two types of one-day passes. The first one-day pass entitles the guest to
visit either Universal Studios Florida or Universal s Islands of Adventure for an entire day. The second type of one-day pass entitles the guest to visit both Universal Studios Florida and Universal s Islands of Adventure for an entire
day. A two-day pass entitles the guest to visit both of our theme parks freely for two calendar days, and if purchased at the front gate, allows the guest the choice of either a third day free if used within a consecutive 7-day period or a second
day for use anytime with no expiration date. A two-day pass purchased at our online store entitles the guest to visit both of our theme parks freely for two calendar days and a choice of one of the following options: an additional three free days
for guests willing to use all five days consecutively; a kids-free ticket with each paid adult two day pass which allows one child age 3 to 9 free theme park admission and an additional three free days for a total of five consecutive days of
admission for each adult and child; or a second day for use anytime with no expiration date. The Orlando FlexTicket entitles a guest to visit both of our theme parks over two weeks. The Orlando FlexTicket can also be used over those same two weeks
at Wet  n Wild  and Sea World  Orlando. There is also a five-park Orlando FlexTicket which also includes admission to Busch Gardens  Tampa Bay. We also have two annual pass options. The first annual pass option entitles a guest to
unlimited visits to both of our theme parks for a full year with no restrictions and includes free parking. The second annual pass option is similar, but includes blackout dates and does not include free parking.      The table below sets forth certain information relating to our pass sales in 2005 (visitors, attendance and revenue in millions):       

(1)  
  Net of discounts and commissions.     

(2)  
  Reflects weighted average.        Sales from our passes were $452.1 million and
$378.4 million during 2004 and 2003, respectively.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

    Merchandise, food and beverage sales       In addition to our pass sales, we derive revenue from the sales of theme park merchandise, food and beverage. Revenues from these products during the past three years are set forth in the table below:       
     Employees       As
of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 12,900 employees on our payroll of whom approximately 11,900 were hourly employees and approximately 1,000 were salaried employees. Certain of our executive officers are employed and compensated by
Vivendi Universal Entertainment, but they work for us in operating Universal Orlando. We reimburse Vivendi Universal Entertainment or its affiliates for the value of any compensation paid to such employees allocated to us by an affiliate of Vivendi
Universal Entertainment. We currently have no employees that are represented by a union. We consider relations with our employees to be good. We were listed as the third company in the  Orlando Sentinel s   Top 100 Companies for
Working Families in Central Florida  in 2005.       Environmental and other regulations       We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing water discharges, air emissions, soil and groundwater
contamination, the installation and operation of underground and above ground storage tanks, and the disposal of waste and hazardous materials. In the event of any violations of or liabilities under any of these environmental laws or instances of
noncompliance with environmental permits required at our facilities, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal penalties. Currently, we do not expect the costs of these environmental requirements to have
a material impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition.      As a result of the NBC Universal Transaction (see note 1 to our combined
financial statements at  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ), we have additional environmental management personnel, policies and procedures, and related resources to assist us in assessing and monitoring our
environmental, health and safety compliance. In the course of conducting our monitoring and due diligence activities, we have identified, and are addressing, certain areas of noncompliance with applicable environmental, health and safety
requirements. For example, we have obtained a federally enforceable state operating permit, and are in the process of upgrading certain employee health and safety programs at our facilities. Although no assurances can be given, we do not expect the
costs of achieving compliance in these areas to have a material impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition in the near future.       Geographic Financial Summary       We operate exclusively in the theme park industry. Substantially all revenues were the result of sales
directly related to our theme parks, which are located in Orlando, Florida. Accordingly, all revenues and long-lived assets were earned and reside in the United States. For additional information about our revenues and long-lived assets please refer
to our financial statements and notes thereto set forth in   Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   of this report.       Available Information       We routinely file reports, as required, with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ), including
but not limited to Forms 10-Q, Forms 10-K and Forms 8-K (and amendments thereto). The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549 and may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.       
  Item 1A. Risk Factors       You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information
contained in this report. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially affect our business operations. If any
of the events described in the risk factors below         
   15   

Table of Contents  

   actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects could be materially and
adversely affected, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to operate. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment.       Attendance at our theme parks is influenced by general economic and other conditions.       Attendance at our theme parks is heavily dependent
upon consumer spending on travel and other leisure activities. Because consumer spending on travel and other leisure activities is discretionary, this is usually the first type of spending to be curtailed by consumers during economic downturns. As a
result, we have historically experienced weaker attendance during economic downturns and during other events affecting travel and leisure activities. Any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions, increases in the cost of travel,
outbreaks of war or terrorist or political events that diminish consumer spending and confidence could reduce attendance at our theme parks.       Our
business is largely dependent on air travel.       We estimate that approximately half of the visitors to our theme parks travel to Orlando by air. An
increase in the price of jet fuel may serve to increase the price of air travel and reduce demand. In addition, the recent economic difficulties facing the airline industry may result in a reduction in scheduled flights to Orlando and an increase in
the price of air travel which in turn may have a negative effect on the number of visitors to Orlando. In addition, another terrorist attack in the United States or the mere threat of a terrorist attack is likely to result in a decline in air
travel. A significant decline in visitors traveling to Orlando by air would negatively affect attendance at our theme parks, possibly dramatically.       We
are subject to the risks inherent in deriving substantially all of our revenue from one location.       Substantially all of our revenue is derived from the
operation of our two theme parks and CityWalk in Orlando, Florida. This subjects us to a number of risks. Our business is and will continue to be influenced by local economic, financial and other conditions affecting the Orlando area. This may
include prolonged or severe inclement weather in the Orlando area, a catastrophic event such as a hurricane or tornado, or the occurrence or threat of a terrorist attack in the Orlando area, any of which could significantly reduce attendance at our
theme parks. In addition, the partial or total destruction of our theme parks requiring either of them to be closed for an extended period of time would have a material adverse effect on our attendance.       The United States is currently engaged in military operations in Iraq and elsewhere, which could drive up the price of gas and air travel and increase the chance of
another terrorist attack in the United States, each of which would have a negative impact on attendance at our theme parks.       The United States and
certain of its allies are currently engaged in military operations in Iraq. This military action could exacerbate the risks identified above and have a number of other consequences, many of which would likely have a negative impact on attendance at
our theme parks and, as a result, our prospects. The military operations in Iraq could further increase the price of crude oil, which in turn would increase the price of gasoline and jet fuel. A substantial increase in the price of gasoline and jet
fuel may cause significant numbers of domestic consumers to forego taking a vacation, which could negatively affect our attendance, as approximately 25% of our visitors drive more than 200 miles to our theme parks and approximately half of our
visitors travel by air to our theme parks. The current military operations in Iraq may increase the likelihood of another major terrorist attack in the United States. The threat or occurrence of a terrorist attack could serve to discourage many
consumers from travel or otherwise participating in leisure activities.       Loss of key distribution channels for pass sales may reduce our revenues.
      Approximately 41% of our annual theme park pass sales are generated by third party distribution channels, the majority of which are concentrated among
40 third-party customers. As an example, approximately 13% of our annual theme park pass sales are derived from time-share operators, which are dominated by a few major operators. Other significant distribution channels include AAA, which has
approximately 60 distribution locations across North America that we use, guest service desk locations operated by Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations at approximately 40 stand-alone properties throughout Orlando and other key domestic and
international travel operators. The loss of any key distribution channel could have a negative effect on our pass sales.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

    The theme park industry competes with numerous vacation and entertainment alternatives; the Orlando theme park market
is extremely competitive.       Our theme parks compete with other theme, water and amusement parks in Orlando and around the country and with other types of
recreational facilities and forms of entertainment, including cruise ships, other vacation travel, major sports attractions and other major entertainment activities. Our business is also subject to factors that affect the recreation, vacation and
leisure industries generally, such as general economic conditions, consumer confidence and changes in consumer spending habits.      The Orlando theme park
market is extremely competitive. There are currently seven major theme parks in the Orlando area including our competitors: Walt Disney World s Magic Kingdom , Epcot , Disney-MGM Studios, Disney s Animal Kingdom  and Anheuser
Busch s Sea World . All of these theme parks are located within a 10-mile radius of our theme parks. Some of these theme parks, particularly those affiliated with The Walt Disney Company, enjoy better name recognition than our theme parks
do. This puts us at a disadvantage in our attempts to attract guests to our theme parks over those of our competitors. The close proximity to us of so many of our direct competitors has various other adverse consequences on our business. For
example, we offer significant commissions to travel agents and wholesalers in order to provide them with an incentive to encourage their customers to purchase passes to our theme parks rather than those of our competitors in the Orlando area. Also,
it has the effect of increasing competition for market share among the major competitors.       There is the risk of accidents occurring at theme parks,
which may create negative publicity which may reduce attendance.       Our theme parks feature  thrill rides.  There are inherent risks involved
with these sorts of rides and attractions. An accident or an injury at our theme parks or at another theme park may result in negative publicity which could reduce attendance.       We may not be able to adequately protect the right to use the intellectual property of the themed elements of our rides and attractions, which may require us to re-theme certain rides and attractions.
      The use of themed elements in our rides and attractions is dependent upon UCDP s obtaining and maintaining intellectual property licenses granting
it the rights to use those elements. Failure to protect UCDP s existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of those rights or require us to make significant additional payments to third parties for infringing their intellectual
property rights. The loss of the right to use a particular themed element means that we would be unable to operate the rides or attractions that utilize the relevant element. This may require us to re-theme those rides or attractions which may
involve taking the relevant ride or attraction out of service and may require significant capital expenditure.       The loss of key personnel could hurt our
operations.       Our success depends upon the continuing contributions of our executive officers and other key operating personnel. The complete or partial
loss of their services could adversely affect our business. A number of executive officers are employees of, and have employment agreements with, Vivendi Universal Entertainment, including Robert Gault, UCDP s President and Chief Executive
Officer, Thomas Williams, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Universal Parks   Resorts, John Sprouls, President/Chief Executive Officer of Holdings and Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Legal and Business Affairs of Universal
Parks and Resorts and Michael Short, Treasurer/Chief Financial Officer of Holdings and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UCDP. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain their services or to find adequate replacements
for them in the event we were to lose their services. If Vivendi Universal Entertainment were to cease acting as UCDP s manager, we could lose the services of those executive officers.       Our business is seasonal and bad weather can adversely impact attendance at our theme parks.       Our business is seasonal. Attendance at our theme parks follows a seasonal pattern which coincides closely with holiday and school schedules. Because many of the attractions at our theme parks are outdoors, attendance
at our theme parks is adversely affected by bad weather. Prolonged bad or mixed weather conditions during our seasonal peak attendance periods may reduce attendance causing a more severe decline in revenues than if those conditions occurred during a
low attendance period. In addition, temporary but severe weather conditions, such as a hurricane, can adversely impact attendance at our theme parks.       Our ability to refinance our debt obligations could be adversely impacted by the Consultant s right, starting in June 2010, to terminate the periodic payments under the Consulting Agreement and receive instead one payment equal
to the fair market value of the interest in the Orlando parks and any comparable projects.       UCDP has an agreement (the  Consulting Agreement )
with a consultant (the  Consultant ) under which UCDP pays a fee equal to a percentage of UCDP s gross revenues for consulting services in connection with the attractions and certain other facilities         
   17   

Table of Contents  

   owned by UCDP. Under the terms of the Consulting Agreement, the Consultant is also entitled to a fee based on a
percentage of gross revenues of comparable projects, which are gated motion picture and/or television themed attractions owned or operated, in whole or in part, by UCDP. Although the agreement has no expiration date, starting in June 2010, the
Consultant has the right to terminate the periodic payments under the Consulting Agreement and receive instead one payment equal to the fair market value of the interest in the Orlando parks and any comparable projects. If the parties cannot agree
on the fair market value, the fair market value will be determined by binding appraisal. Due to uncertainties in the amount of such a payment and our ability to make such a payment, our ability to refinance our obligations could be adversely
impacted by this right of the Consultant (see   Item 13. Certain relationships and related party transactions Consultant agreement  ).       UCDP s debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating the business.       UCDP s senior secured credit
agreement and the indenture under which the April 2010 notes are issued (see note 3 to our combined financial statements contained in   Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  ) contain a number of significant covenants
that, among other things, restrict UCDP s ability to:       

incur additional indebtedness;         

create liens on its assets;         

to issue dividends;         

engage in mergers or acquisitions; and         

make investments.        These restrictive covenants may not allow UCDP the
flexibility it needs to operate the business in an effective and efficient manner and may prevent UCDP from taking advantage of strategic opportunities that would benefit the business.      In addition, UCDP is required under its senior secured credit agreement to satisfy specified financial ratios and tests. UCDP s ability to comply with those financial ratios and tests may be affected by events
beyond our control, and UCDP may not be able to meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of those covenants could result in a default under UCDP s senior secured credit agreement and the lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed
under UCDP s senior secured credit agreement, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable and could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Substantially all of UCDP s assets, and therefore
substantially all of our assets, are pledged as collateral pursuant to the terms of UCDP s senior secured credit agreement. If any of UCDP s indebtedness were to be accelerated, our consolidated assets may not be sufficient to repay in
full that indebtedness.       If the equity holders of Holding I and Holding II that are controlled by Blackstone default on certain indebtedness,
Blackstone s equity interests in Holding I and Holding II will be subject to foreclosure.       Concurrently with the consummation of the 2004 Amendment
(see note 3 to our combined financial statements contained in   Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  ), JPMorgan Chase Bank and another lender made loans to the equity holders of Holding I and Holding II that are
controlled by Blackstone in the aggregate principal amount of $178.0 million and made commitments for additional loans of up to $52.0 million under a revolving credit facility. The obligations of the borrowers under the loans are secured
by their equity interests in Holding I and Holding II and are guaranteed by NBC Universal on a deficiency basis, subject to the terms of the guarantee. The loans will mature in five years. Blackstone and NBC Universal have agreed to cooperate to
obtain refinancing of the loans, if not fully paid at that time, with credit enhancement provided by NBC Universal. It is anticipated that the only assets of the borrowers will be their equity interests in Holding I and Holding II. If the borrowers
default on, or are unable to refinance, the loans, the borrowers  equity interests in Holding I and Holding II will be subject to foreclosure by the lenders. Any such foreclosure will not constitute a change in control for purposes of
UCDP s senior secured credit facility, the April 2010 notes or the May 2010 notes (see note 3 to our combined financial statements contained in   Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  ).         
   18   

Table of Contents  

    Holding I and Holding II are holding companies and UCFH I Finance and UCFH II Finance have no operations; therefore we
depend on our subsidiaries to pay interest on the May 2010 notes and our other obligations.       Holding I and Holding II are holding companies and do not
have any material assets or operations other than ownership of partnership interests of UCDP and ownership of the special fee receivable described in this report. UCFH I Finance and UCFH II Finance were formed for the purpose of being co-issuers of
the May 2010 notes, and also do not have any material assets or operations. All of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Claims of creditors of such subsidiaries, including trade creditors, and claims of preferred stockholders (if
any) of such subsidiaries generally will have priority with respect to the assets and earnings of such subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors, including holders of the May 2010 notes. These notes, therefore, are structurally subordinated to
creditors (including trade creditors) and preferred stockholders (if any) of our subsidiaries, including UCDP.       Federal and state statutes allow courts,
under specific circumstances, to void the notes, subordinate claims in respect of the notes and require note holders to return payments received from us.       The issuance of the notes may be subject to review under state and federal laws if a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization case or a lawsuit, including in circumstances in which bankruptcy is not involved, were commenced at some future
date by, or on behalf of, our unpaid creditors. Under the federal bankruptcy laws and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a court may void or otherwise decline to enforce the notes or subordinate the notes to our existing and
future indebtedness. While the relevant laws may vary from state to state, a court might do so if it found that when we issued the notes or, in some states, when payments became due under the notes, we received less than reasonably equivalent value
or fair consideration and either:       

were insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; or         

were engaged in a business or transaction for which our remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or         

intended to incur, or believed that we would incur, debts beyond our ability to pay such debts as they mature.        The court might also void the notes, without regard to the above factors, if the court found that we issued the notes with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud our
creditors. In addition, any payment by us pursuant to the notes could be voided and required to be returned to us or to a fund for the benefit of our creditors.      A court would likely find that we did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the notes if they did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the notes. Our use of proceeds, which
included the distribution of the proceeds of the May 2010 notes to Blackstone and Universal CPM, could increase the risk of such a finding. If a court were to void the notes, you would no longer have a claim against us. Sufficient funds to repay the
notes may not be available from other sources. In addition, the court might direct you to repay any amounts that you already received from us.      The
measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws will vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. Generally, however, we would be considered insolvent if:

the sum of our debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of our assets; or         

if the present fair saleable value of our assets were less than the amount that would be required to pay our probable liability on our existing debts, including contingent
liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or         

we could not pay our debts as they become due.        To the extent a court
voids the notes as fraudulent transfers or holds the notes unenforceable for any other reason, holders of notes would cease to have any direct claim against us. If a court were to take this action, our assets would be applied first to satisfy our
liabilities, if any, before any portion of our assets could be applied to the payment of notes.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

    Because we are the sole obligors of the May 2010 notes, and our subsidiaries have not guaranteed our obligations under
these notes or have any obligation with respect to these notes, the May 2010 notes are structurally subordinated to the debt and liabilities of our subsidiaries. In addition, the May 2010 notes are effectively subordinated to any of our present and
future secured debt.       We have no direct operations of our own and derive all of our revenues and cash flow from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are
separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay amounts due under the notes or to make any funds available to pay those amounts, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments.      The May 2010 notes are structurally subordinated to all of our subsidiaries  indebtedness and preferred equity. Holders of the May 2010 notes will not have any
claim as creditors against any of our subsidiaries. None of our current subsidiaries will guarantee our obligations under these notes. The May 2010 notes are structurally subordinated to any existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of
any of our subsidiaries, even if these obligations do not constitute indebtedness. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding, the May 2010 notes are effectively subordinated to the claims of the
creditors of any of our subsidiaries, including the lenders under UCDP s senior secured credit agreement, holders of the April 2010 notes, trade creditors and holders of other indebtedness of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, there might only be a
limited amount of assets available to satisfy the claims of a holder of the May 2010 notes upon an acceleration of the maturity of these notes.      If the
debt of our subsidiaries is accelerated, we may not be able to repay the May 2010 notes and our other indebtedness including that of our subsidiaries. In addition, our assets and our subsidiaries  assets may not be sufficient to fully repay the
notes and our other indebtedness. In addition, the May 2010 notes are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness.       The substantial indebtedness of our subsidiaries could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the May 2010
notes. In addition, we are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service obligations.       As of December 31, 2005, the May 2010 notes were
effectively subordinated to $1,195.7 million of liabilities (consisting of $544.5 million of secured indebtedness under UCDP s amended and restated senior secured credit facilities, $496.5 million of the April 2010 notes, and $154.7 million of
payables and other liabilities of UCDP). An additional $100.0 million is available for future borrowings under the revolving portion of the amended and restated senior secured credit facilities and, in addition, UCDP may borrow up to $200.0 million
of incremental term loans from time to time, all of which would be secured and effectively senior to our noteholders. As a result, our subsidiaries are highly leveraged. This level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, including
the following:       

it may limit our subsidiaries  ability to borrow money for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements and general corporate or other
purposes;         

it may limit our subsidiaries  flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in their business and future business opportunities;         

our subsidiaries will be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place them at a competitive disadvantage;         

it may make our subsidiaries more vulnerable than less leveraged companies to a downturn in our business or the economy;         

the debt service requirements of our subsidiaries  indebtedness could make it more difficult to generate cash;         

a substantial portion of our subsidiaries  cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the repayment of their indebtedness, including indebtedness they may incur in the
future, and will not be available for other purposes; and         

there would be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if our subsidiaries were unable to service their indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as
needed.        In addition, we are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service obligations of our own. As of December 31, 2005, we had
total debt of approximately $450.0 million and our subsidiaries had a total indebtedness of approximately $1,041.3 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay when
due the principal of, interest on or other amounts due, including our repurchase obligation upon occurrence of specified change of control events, in respect of the May 2010 notes.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

   Our substantial debt could have other important consequences to you. For example, our failure to comply with the
financial and other restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the May 2010 notes, which limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could harm our business or prospects
and could result in our bankruptcy.       Despite our subsidiaries  substantial indebtedness, they may still incur significantly more debt. In addition,
we may incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness. This could exacerbate the risks described above.       The terms of the indenture governing the
April 2010 notes and the senior secured credit agreement permit our subsidiaries to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2005, UCDP had $100.0 million available for additional borrowing under the revolving
credit portion of the senior secured credit facilities. In addition, UCDP may borrow up to $200.0 million of incremental term loans from time to time. All of those borrowings are effectively senior to the May 2010 notes. Because we are the sole
obligors of the May 2010 notes, and our subsidiaries will not guarantee our obligations under these notes or have any obligation with respect to these notes, the May 2010 notes are structurally subordinated to the debt and liabilities of our
subsidiaries. In addition, the May 2010 notes are effectively subordinated to any of our present and future secured debt. If our subsidiaries incur any additional indebtedness, this may have the effect of reducing the amount of proceeds available to
us to pay to the holders of the May 2010 notes. If new debt is added to our subsidiaries  current debt levels, this will increase the risks described above under. The substantial indebtedness of our subsidiaries could adversely affect our
financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the May 2010 notes. In addition, we are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service obligations. The terms of the indenture governing the May 2010 notes permit us, under
certain circumstances, to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with substantial leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would increase.       Our subsidiaries may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of their indebtedness for reasons beyond our control.       Our subsidiaries  ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness,
including the notes, depends on our subsidiaries  ability to generate cash from operations in the future. This is subject, in part, to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, social, political and other factors that
are beyond our control.      We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be
available to UCDP under UCDP s senior secured credit agreement, or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable our subsidiaries to fund planned capital expenditures, pay their indebtedness, including the April 2010 notes, or to fund their
other liquidity needs.       We may not be able to refinance or repay in full the May 2010 notes and UCDP may not be able to refinance or repay in full the
April 2010 notes by 2010 when they all mature and if we are or UCDP is, as the case may be, unable to refinance or repay in full the May 2010 notes prior to January 1, 2010, or the April 2010 notes prior to December 1, 2009, then
UCDP s amended and restated senior secured credit agreement will also mature and our subsidiaries may be forced to take other actions to satisfy their obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful.       The May 2010 notes will mature on May 1, 2010. The April 2010 notes mature on April 1, 2010. In addition, if we are unable to refinance or repay in full the May
2010 notes prior to January 1, 2010, or UCDP is unable to refinance or repay in full the April 2010 notes prior to December 1, 2009, then UCDP s amended and restated senior secured credit agreement will also mature at that time.
     We cannot assure you that UCDP will be able to refinance the UCDP amended and restated senior secured credit agreement. In addition, we cannot make
assurances that they will be able to repay in full or refinance the May 2010 notes on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that UCDP will be able to repay in full or refinance the April 2010 notes on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.
See   Item 7. Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations Liquidity and capital resources.   If any of our subsidiaries cannot service its indebtedness, it may have to take actions
such as selling assets, seeking additional equity contributions or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit that subsidiary to
meet scheduled debt service obligations. Our subsidiaries could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations in an attempt to meet their debt service and other obligations. Any of the foregoing
could prevent us from paying principal, premium, if any, and interest on the notes and substantially decrease the market value of the notes.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

    We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to finance any change of control offer required by the
indenture.       Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we must offer to purchase all of the May 2010 notes then outstanding for
a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the May 2010 notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. We cannot assure you that there will be sufficient funds available for us to make any required repurchases of the notes upon a change of
control. Given the restrictions in our subsidiaries  debt (in particular, the UCDP senior secured credit agreement and the April 2010 notes), we currently anticipate that, in order to pay the principal amount at maturity of the notes or to
repurchase the notes upon a change of control as defined in the indenture governing the notes, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing all of our subsidiaries  indebtedness, selling our equity securities or
the equity securities or assets of our subsidiaries or seeking capital contributions or loans from our affiliates. None of our affiliates is required to make any capital contributions, loans or other payments to us with respect to our obligations on
the notes. We cannot assure you that any of the foregoing actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that any of the foregoing actions would enable us to refinance our indebtedness or pay the principal amount of the notes or that
any such actions would be permitted by the terms of the indenture governing the notes or any other debt instruments of ours or our subsidiaries then in effect. Any future debt that we incur may also contain restrictions on repayment upon change of
control. If any change of control occurs, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds to satisfy all of our debt obligations.       Risks related
to the right of first refusal agreement between our partners.       Pursuant to a right of first refusal provision in an amended and restated partners 
agreement between Blackstone and Vivendi Universal Entertainment (the  partners  agreement ), at any time after December 31, 2007, if either Blackstone or Vivendi Universal Entertainment desires to sell its ownership interest in
Holding I and Holding II, it shall make a binding offer, specifying the proposed sale price, to sell to the other its entire interest in each of Holding I and Holding II. The non-offering partner will then have 90 days after receipt of an offer
to accept the offer to sell. If Blackstone exercises its rights under this provision by accepting a binding offer, it may result in 100% control and ownership of us being acquired by Blackstone, which could pose a number of risks to our business. In
addition, pursuant to the same agreement, from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2007, each of Blackstone and Vivendi Universal Entertainment shall be permitted, without the consent of the other party, to sell their ownership interests in
Holding I and Holding II to a third party, provided that the other party is permitted to participate in such sale on an equitable basis. UCDP s license to use the  Universal  name would expire 30 months after such a transfer of
control to Blackstone, unless Vivendi Universal Entertainment otherwise consents. These same risks would be present if a third party unaffiliated with Vivendi Universal Entertainment were to acquire control of us.       Our dependence on Universal Studios, Inc. and its affiliates; risks related to a change of control.       UCDP licenses the right to use a substantial number of intellectual properties as street entertainment characters and as themed elements in rides and attractions from
Universal Studios, Inc. and its affiliates. See   Item 1: Business Intellectual property .  If Blackstone or any other third party unaffiliated with Universal Studios, Inc. were to acquire all of the partnership
interests in us, we may not be able to take advantage of this license arrangement in the future to the same degree as we currently do and may lose this license completely if we fail to maintain certain quality standards. UCDP s license to use
the  Universal  name would expire 30 months after such a transfer of control to Blackstone, unless Vivendi Universal Entertainment otherwise consents. Universal Studios, Inc. and its affiliates are required to continue to license
those intellectual properties currently licensed to UCDP after Universal Studios, Inc. or its affiliates no longer have an ownership interest in us for so long as we operate our theme parks at a substantially similar standard. However, in a
situation where Blackstone or a third party unaffiliated with Universal Studios, Inc. acquires all of the partnership interests in us, Universal Studios, Inc. and its affiliates are not required to grant UCDP a license to any new
intellectual property rights that they may acquire in the future that may be or become useful or necessary for the operation of our theme parks. Universal Studios, Inc. could also claim that our theme parks were not being operated to a
sufficiently high standard after Blackstone or a third party unaffiliated with Universal Studios, Inc. acquired all of the partnership interests in us and revoke the license completely. If this were to occur, we may be unable to operate our
theme parks for an extended period of time and may not be able to continue operating our theme parks at all.      We also rely on Vivendi Universal
Entertainment and its affiliates for management oversight, advisory and other services. In its capacity as our manager, Vivendi Universal Entertainment provides creative services in relation to development of our rides and attractions. Most of our
insurance is arranged by GE through global programs for its businesses via licensed insurers issuing enforceable policies. We have numerous other arrangements with affiliates of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and, indirectly, NBC Universal and GE,
which provide us with significant benefits that may be reduced or lost completely if Blackstone or a third party unaffiliated with Vivendi Universal Entertainment gains control of us pursuant to the right of first refusal or otherwise. For a better
understanding of these arrangements, see   Item 13: Certain relationships and related party transactions .  Although Vivendi Universal Entertainment is required by the terms of the partners  agreement to provide us with the same
level of services for a transitional twelve-month period if Blackstone were to acquire all of our partnership interests in us pursuant to the right of first refusal, there can be no guarantee that Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone will
reach agreement regarding the provision of such services beyond this twelve-month period or that Blackstone will thereafter find a third party with the experience and expertise to provide comparable services to those provided by Vivendi Universal
Entertainment and its affiliates. In addition, the costs of the services currently provided by Vivendi Universal Entertainment may be significantly more expensive if they were purchased from a third party.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

    Potential deadlock between the partners of our general partner could prevent us from executing certain aspects of our
business strategy.       Major decisions by Holding II regarding our business generally require the consent of both Blackstone and Vivendi Universal
Entertainment who are representatives of Holding I and Holding II and members of UCDP s Park Advisory Board. This creates a potential for deadlocks. Any deadlock could delay us from taking certain actions in the future which would be beneficial
to the business and may prevent or delay us from executing certain aspects of its business strategy.       Blackstone and Vivendi Universal Entertainment
control us and may have conflicts of interest with us or you in the future.       Blackstone and Vivendi Universal Entertainment, together, beneficially own
100% of our equity interests. As a result, Blackstone and Vivendi Universal Entertainment have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and will have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of
equity holders regardless of whether or not noteholders believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. For example, Blackstone and Vivendi Universal Entertainment could cause us to distribute our cash resources to them or make
distributions to service the loan to the Blackstone entities guaranteed by NBC Universal rather than invest such resources in our business. In addition, Blackstone and Vivendi Universal Entertainment may have interests adverse to parties with which
we would like to enter into sponsorship relationships, and thus certain sponsorship relationships may be unavailable to us.       
  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments       Not applicable.       
  Item 2. Properties       Universal Studios Florida, Universal s Islands of Adventure, CityWalk, our film production
studios, our guest parking structures, our employee parking lots, our executive offices and various administrative buildings as well as extensive landscaping and water systems, are located on 443 acres which we own in Orlando, Florida. In addition,
we own approximately 137 acres on which the three themed hotels are located which are leased to UCF Hotel Venture under a long-term ground lease.      We have
approximately 106 acres of undeveloped land which has planning approval for additional hotels. The development of hotels on these vacant sites is subject to a right of first refusal by Loews Hotels to participate in the development. On
December 28, 2005 we sold approximately 4 acres for $3.6 million with a cost basis of $1.4 million resulting in a gain of $2.2 million.      As of December 31, 2005, we leased four off-site retail stores, two stores at the Orlando Airport and two stores at area outlet malls (our lease at one of the outlet malls ended in January 2006). In addition, we lease off-site office
and warehouse space of approximately 280,000 square feet for merchandise inventory and entertainment props as well as 25,000 square feet for the manufacture of replacement prosthetic skins for some of our attractions.      We believe that our facilities, whether owned or leased, are well maintained.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

Item 3. Legal Proceedings        Ride   Show       On November 13, 2003, Ride   Show Engineering, Inc. filed a Complaint For Patent Infringement, Injunctive Relief and Damages (the  Complaint ) in the United States District Court for the
Central District of California, naming USJ Co., Ltd., and Universal City Studios LLLP d/b/a Universal Studios Recreation Group, affiliates of us, as defendants. On February 12, 2004, the Plaintiff served a First Amended Complaint (the
 Amended Complaint ) naming the above-referenced defendants as well as UCDP and another company, Oriental Land Co., Ltd., as additional defendants. On September 24, 2003, a similar complaint was filed in the same court against other
defendants, including entities that appear to be operators of amusement parks and amusement park rides, and designers and manufacturers of amusement park rides. The Amended Complaint alleges that the named defendants have infringed U.S. Patent
No. 5,527,221 (the  Patent ) by operating, making, using, selling, advertising, and/or offering for sale in the United States amusement park rides that embody or otherwise practice one or more of the claims of such Patent or by
otherwise contributing to infringement or inducing others to infringe. The Amended Complaint did not include specific allegations concerning the location or manner of alleged infringement. However, plaintiff s counsel has advised UCDP that the
allegations of the Amended Complaint relate to rides located at our theme parks. On February 3, 2006 USJ Co. Ltd. entered into a Settlement and License Agreement pursuant to which Ride   Show agreed to dismiss the California case.
     UCDP filed a motion seeking to either dismiss the action or to transfer it to the Middle District of Florida. On May 5, 2004, the United States
District Court for the Central District of California granted UCDP s Motion and dismissed, without prejudice, the case for improper venue. As a result, UCDP is no longer a party to this action. On May 21, 2004, UCDP filed a Complaint
against Ride   Show Engineering, Inc. ( Ride   Show ) in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. UCDP s Complaint contains counts for declaratory relief, breach of contract, conversion, unjust
enrichment, constructive trust, and fraud. Among other things, UCDP s Complaint challenges Ride   Show s ownership of the subject Patent and the validity of the Patent. In addition, UCDP seeks a declaration by the Court that UCDP
has not infringed the Patent. UCDP also seeks damages for Ride   Show s use of the invention that is the subject of the Patent. On July 19, 2004, Ride   Show filed a motion to dismiss UCDP s Complaint and to transfer
a portion of our declaratory relief count to the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. UCDP opposed the motion and on August 26, 2004, Ride   Show s motion was denied. On September 10, 2004
Ride   Show filed its answer and counterclaim for Patent Infringement and Breach of Contract. On October 4, 2004 UCDP filed its answer to the counterclaim denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. On
May 26, 2005, UCDP and Ride   Show participated in a court ordered mediation, which resulted in an impasse. Ride   Show moved for summary judgment on the Patent ownership issue and UCDP moved for summary judgment on all
issues. On December 19, 2005, UCDP filed a Motion to Amend its Reply to Ride   Show s Counterclaim to include the defense of res judicata based upon the dismissals of Moog and MTS in the California case. On February 21, 2006, the Magistrate
issued a Report and Recommendation denying UCDP s Motion to Amend and UCDP filed an Objection to Report and Recommendation. On March 6, 2006, the Court issued an Order denying UCDP s Motion for Summary Judgment and set a hearing on Ride
and Show s Motion for Summary Judgment, which was held on March 17, 2006. On March 23, 2006, the Court issued a Notice setting a hearing on March 29, 2006 with respect to UCDP s Objection to Report and Recommendation. The parties have
agreed to reconvene mediation in April 2006. No trial date has been set but it is likely to take place during the second quarter of 2006. As a result of the dismissal of the California case, USJ Co. Ltd. has terminated its Joint Defense Agreement
and both USJ Co. and Universal Parks   Resorts will cease sharing costs of defense of the Ride   Show claims in the California and Florida cases as of February 1, 2006. It is premature to assess the likelihood of any impact that
this case may have on our financial position or the results of operations.       Other       We are threatened with or involved in various other legal actions and claims incidental to the conduct of our business. Management does not expect a material impact to its results of operations, financial position or
cash flows by reason of these actions.       
  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders       Not applicable.   
     
   24   

Table of Contents  

PART II        
  Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       Not applicable.       
  Item 6. Selected Financial Data        SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA       The following table sets forth certain of our financial data. The selected financial data as of and for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31,
2004, have been derived from our audited combined financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. The selected financial data as of December 27, 2003 have been derived from our audited combined financial statements
and the related notes which are not included in this report. The selected financial data for the year ended December 27, 2003 have been derived from our audited combined financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this
report. The selected financial data as of and for the years ended December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001 have been derived from our audited combined financial statements and related notes thereto which are not included in this report. All
periods presented have been audited. The information set forth below should be read in conjunction with  Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations  and our combined financial statements and
the related notes included elsewhere in this report.       
       
   25   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Interpretation,   Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities   ( FIN 46 ). We own a
50% interest in Universal City Restaurant Partners, Ltd. ( UCRP ). Based on FIN 46, we determined that UCRP is a variable interest entity. Accordingly, our combined financial statements for 2003 and all subsequent periods include the
results of UCRP.     

(2)  
  Consists primarily of CityWalk, Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations, corporate special events, Universal Express Plus ( UEP ) and parking. We host special events
for corporate guests whereby a portion of the theme park is rented for corporate functions. UEP is a pass that allows guests to experience reduced wait times at certain rides and attractions.     

(3)  
  We have included EBITDA because it is used by some investors as a measure of our ability to service debt. EBITDA represents earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and
amortization. EBITDA is not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should not be considered an alternative for net income, net cash provided by operating activities and other combined income or
cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States or as a measure of profitability or liquidity. EBITDA, because it is before debt service, capital expenditures and working capital
needs, does not represent cash that is available for other purposes at our discretion. Our presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. EBITDA is the primary basis in the UCDP senior secured
credit agreement to determine our quarterly compliance with our funded debt ratio and the interest coverage ratio, which is computed based on the prior twelve months. The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to
EBITDA:           
   26   

Table of Contents  

(4)  
  Turnstile admissions represent total admissions to our theme parks, which includes paid admissions and complimentary passes.     

(5)  
  Paid admissions represent the total paid admissions to our theme parks.     

(6)  
  Visitors represent unique individual paid guests at our theme parks.     

(7)  
  Long-term obligations include long-term borrowings (excluding current portions), long-term capital lease obligations and long-term deferred special fees.     
   
  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations        Overview
      The following Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) is designed to help the
reader understand our financial results, strategies and business environment from our viewpoint. The MD A should be read in conjunction with our combined financial statements and the accompanying notes (see  Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data ). This overview summarizes the MD A, which includes the following sections:       

Our operations a brief description of our operations and our business environment.         

Ownership and basis of presentation a summary of our company structure including our partners and subsidiaries and other factors impacting our financial presentation.

Critical accounting policies and estimates a discussion of our accounting policies requiring critical estimates and judgment.         

Results of operations an analysis of our results of operations for the three-year fiscal period presented in our combined financial statements.         

Liquidity, capital resources and financial position a discussion of our sources and uses of cash, our financial position, and contractual obligations.     

Forward-looking statements cautionary information about forward-looking statements and a discussion of potential risks that could cause our future results to differ from past
experience or current projections.           
   27   

Table of Contents  

    Our operations       We
own and operate two theme parks (Universal s Islands of Adventure and Universal Studios Florida), an entertainment complex (Universal s CityWalk Orlando), sound stages and movie and production facilities all located in Orlando, Florida.
Our operations are heavily dependent on theme park attendance, which we consider our most important operating indicator. We use two different metrics to guage theme park attendance: paid attendance and turnstile attendance, which includes
complimentary attendance. Additionally, we track our theme park attendance from three distinct points of origin: international, Florida and the outer-U.S., which is domestic excluding the state of Florida. Theme park attendance is affected by
macroeconomic, competitive and seasonal forces. As our entertainment product is a component of our customers  discretionary spending, the following macroeconomic factors play an important role in our attendance: consumer sentiment and foreign
currency exchange rates. Consumer sentiment is an important economic indicator, especially in relation to our outer-U.S. market where travel costs are higher when compared to our Florida market. Oil and gas prices affect consumer sentiment for all
of our markets due to their impact on discretionary income and travel costs. Foreign currency exchange rates affect the relative prices for our international guests and therefore impact attendance from that market.      Orlando has seven large theme parks in the metro area. As a result, our attendance is also affected by competitive forces. Our largest competitor is Walt Disney World,
which contains four of the seven parks in Orlando. Additionally, Anheuser Busch owns and operates Sea World. Due to the high level of competition in our market, theme park pass pricing and the introduction of new attractions are factors
significantly impacting theme park attendance.      Theme park attendance follows a seasonal pattern which coincides closely with holiday and school schedules.
The year begins with the end of the peak Christmas and New Year s holiday period. When children return to school, attendance levels subside. During the March to April timeframe, spring break and Easter vacation periods drive seasonally high
attendance. Since the peak spring break period fluctuates from year to year between the end of the first quarter and the beginning of the second quarter, historical quarterly financial information might not be comparable. May is a traditionally slow
attendance period. June marks the beginning of the summer attendance peak when local schools are out for the summer. This peak attendance period continues throughout the month of June, as schools outside of Florida finish their terms. The peak
summer period includes the entire month of July and the first few weeks in August. Local schools begin as early as the first week of August. Attendance levels continue to decline through Labor Day, when schools outside of Florida begin. Excluding
special events such as  Rock the Universe  in September and  Halloween Horror Nights  in October, the period from September through November is seasonally slow, with an attendance spike around Thanksgiving week. Attendance falls
again after Thanksgiving weekend, and does not pick up until the third week of December, when the peak Christmas and New Year s holiday period begins. The Atlantic Ocean hurricane season begins in June and ends in November of each year.
Historically, hurricanes have had little impact on Orlando theme parks. From 1991 to 2003, our parks had been closed only once due to the inclement weather caused by hurricanes. However over the past two seasons, we have closed our parks on four
days as a result of hurricanes.      Approximately 51.3% of our revenues are derived from theme park passes. We analyze our theme park pass revenue based on
revenue per paid admission. Sales of food, beverage and merchandise constitute approximately 23.3% of our revenues. We analyze our theme park food, beverage and merchandise revenues based on revenue per turnstile admission. We derive approximately
9.6% of our revenue from our CityWalk complex, which includes retail, dining, cinema and nightclub entertainment. Our primary operating costs include theme park operations, theme park selling, general and administrative costs, theme park cost of
products sold, a special fee payable to Vivendi Universal Entertainment, a consultant fee, depreciation and amortization, and interest. We also monitor EBITDA and certain of our debt covenant ratios as these items impact our ability to service our
debt, make distributions to our partners (see the  Ownership and basis of presentation  section below) and make payments of special fees to our manager, Vivendi Universal Entertainment. EBITDA is the primary basis in the UCDP senior secured
credit agreement to determine our quarterly compliance with our funded debt ratio and the interest coverage ratio, which is computed based on the prior twelve months. These items are discussed in greater detail within the section entitled
 Liquidity, capital resources and financial position .       Ownership and basis of presentation       Our ultimate owners, each having a 50% interest in us, are Universal CPM and Blackstone. Universal CPM is a wholly owned subsidiary of Vivendi Universal Entertainment,
which in turn is an indirect subsidiary of NBC Universal ( NBCU ).      Prior to May 11, 2004, Vivendi Universal Entertainment was owned by
Vivendi Universal, S.A. ( Vivendi ). On May 11, 2004, General Electric Company ( GE ), National Broadcasting Company Holding, Inc. ( NBC Holding ), National Broadcasting Company, Inc. ( NBC ),
Vivendi, and Universal Studios Holding III Corp. ( USH3 ), concluded a transaction pursuant to which GE and Vivendi combined the respective businesses of NBC, Universal Studios, Inc. ( USI ), Universal Pictures International
Holdings B.V., and Universal Pictures International Holdings 2 B.V. and their respective subsidiaries (the  NBC Universal         
   28   

Table of Contents  

   Transaction ). In connection with the NBC Universal Transaction, NBC changed its corporate name to NBC Universal. GE
owns 80% of NBC Universal and Vivendi owns the remaining 20%. After the NBC Universal Transaction, NBCU indirectly owned approximately 94.5% of Vivendi Universal Entertainment. During June 2005, NBCU purchased the remaining 5.5% minority interest in
Vivendi Universal Entertainment.      Our combined financial statements include the amounts of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and Universal City Florida
Holding Co. II (collectively  Holdings ), and all of their subsidiaries including: Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. ( UCDP ), Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations ( UPRV ), Universal City Restaurant
Partners, Ltd. ( UCRP ), UCFH I Finance ( UCFH I ), UCFH II Finance ( UCFH II ) and UCDP Finance (collectively  UCHC ). All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated upon
combination. Holdings, UCFH I and UCFH II facilitated the issuance of approximately $450.0 million of our debt. UCDP is our primary operating company and owes approximately $1,041.3 million of our debt. UPRV is our travel company that sells and
coordinates vacation packages for some of our guests.      In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued
Interpretation ( FIN ) 46,   Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities   ( FIN 46 ). FIN 46 provides a new consolidation model, which determines control and consolidation of entities based on potential
variability in gains and losses of the entities being evaluated for consolidation. We own a 50% interest in UCRP, which prior to 2003 was accounted for under the equity method. Based on FIN 46, we determined that UCRP is a variable interest entity
( VIE ). Accordingly, our combined financial statements for 2003 and all subsequent periods include the results of UCRP. UCRP operates a restaurant in CityWalk. Total assets of UCRP at December 31, 2005 were $18.3 million, while
total revenues during 2005 were $26.9 million.      Prior to 2004, our year-end was the last Saturday of the year. In connection with the NBC Universal
Transaction, we changed the date of our year-end to December 31. As a result, the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003 contained 365, 370, and 364 days, respectively.       Critical accounting policies and estimates       In the ordinary course of
business, we make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of results of operations and financial condition in the preparation of our combined financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States. Results could differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We believe that the application of the following accounting policies, which are important to our financial position and results of
operations, requires significant judgments and estimates on the part of management. For a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see note 2 in our combined financial statements.
These accounting policies have been discussed and reviewed with the representatives of Holdings  and UCDP s audit committees, which consist of representatives from both Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone.       Revenue recognition       Operating revenue primarily consists of sales
related to theme park passes, merchandise and food and beverage. Revenue from theme park passes is recognized at the time passes are redeemed. For passes not redeemed, revenue is recorded based on our historical redemption patterns. Proceeds related
to the sale of theme park or entertainment complex passes are exempt from unclaimed property reporting within the State of Florida. Revenue from theme park annual passes is recognized in equal installments over the life of the annual pass. Revenue
from food and beverage and merchandise is recognized at the time of sale. In addition to unredeemed passes, we also defer revenue on admissions to CityWalk venues until redemption and on corporate sponsorships, which are recognized as revenue over
the period of benefit.       Property and equipment       Property and equipment is recorded at cost and is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of those assets. Changes in circumstances such as changes to our business model could result in an impairment of our
property and equipment. In addition, it could also result in the actual useful lives differing from our estimates. We review our assumptions whenever a change in these circumstances occurs. We currently depreciate our rides using a 20-year useful
life. Had we used a 15-year useful life, our annual depreciation expense as it relates to our rides would have increased by approximately $8.5 million. Conversely, a useful life for our rides of 25 years would have reduced our annual depreciation
expense by $5.1 million.      If we determine that the carrying value of our property and equipment is not recoverable, we
would record a property and         
   29   

Table of Contents  

   equipment impairment adjustment. If we determine that the useful life of property and equipment should be shortened, such
as finalizing the date a ride will be closed as part of developing a new ride, we would depreciate the net book value in excess of the salvage value, over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense. Our combined
financial statements do not include any significant adjustments related to impairment. Additionally, although our 2005 and 2004 results do not include significant amounts of additional depreciation related to shortening the useful life of assets no
longer to be used, 2003 includes $2.8 million of such expenses.       Provision for inventory       Inventory, which primarily includes spare parts for the theme park rides, food and beverage and merchandise, is recorded at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
determined using the average cost method. We periodically make judgments regarding the realizable value of certain slow-moving and obsolete inventory. For spare parts, these judgments are based on the usage of the parts on specific rides. If we
decide to close down a ride as part of developing a new ride, we specifically review spare parts related to the ride being closed for impairment. For merchandise, these judgments are based on the demand of our customers. When the realizable value is
less than the average cost, we record an inventory provision.      In connection with the opening of Universal s Islands of Adventure, we purchased large
quantities of merchandise. Prior to 2004, we worked through a significant portion of this volume. Subsequent to our 2004 peak season, we reanalyzed our strategy related to our merchandise inventory. Although we believed we could have sold a majority
of this merchandise, more profitable merchandise could utilize its shelf space. Accordingly, we changed our strategy, which included recording an additional provision for slow moving merchandise of $2.0 million during 2004. As a result, at
December 31, 2004, we had a $1.8 million inventory provision including $1.7 million for slow-moving merchandise and $0.1 million for obsolete spare parts. At December 31, 2005, we had a $1.1 million inventory provision.
This included $1.0 million for slow-moving merchandise and food and $0.1 million for obsolete spare parts. The reduction in our merchandise reserve from 2004 to 2005 of approximately $0.7 million relates primarily to our disposal efforts
for this slow moving merchandise.      At December 27, 2003, our inventory provision was $2.5 million, which included $1.1 million for
slow-moving merchandise and $1.4 million for obsolete spare parts. The provision for obsolete spare parts at December 27, 2003 was primarily recorded in 2001 and relates to rides at Universal Studios Florida that were closed so that we
could develop and install new rides. During 2004, the spare parts related to these closed rides were disposed of, which reduced our obsolete spare parts provision by $1.3 million.       Litigation       We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and other claims, including those discussed within
 Item 3. Legal Proceedings  of this document. If we believe that costs from these matters are probable and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated, we will accrue the amount of the costs. Accordingly, we have accrued our
estimate of the probable legal and settlement costs for the resolution of these claims. This estimate has been developed in consultation with outside counsel and is based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation
and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies related to these
proceedings. As additional information becomes available, we will reassess any potential liability related to these matters and, if necessary, revise our estimates. See note 11 to our combined financial statements for more detailed information
on litigation related exposure.       Recent accounting pronouncements       In December 2004, the FASB issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 153,   Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets   ( SFAS 153 ). This Statement amends the
guidance in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 29 ( APB 29 ),   Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions .  APB 29 provided an exception to the basic measurement principle (fair value) for exchanges of similar
assets, requiring that some nonmonetary exchanges be recorded on a carryover basis. SFAS 153 eliminates the exception to fair value for exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a general exception for exchange transactions that do
not have commercial substance, that is, transactions that are not expected to result in significant changes in the cash flows of the reporting entity. The provisions of SFAS 153 are effective for exchanges of nonmonetary assets occurring in fiscal
periods beginning after June 15, 2005, although we adopted the provisions effective January 1, 2005 as permitted. As of December 31, 2005, SFAS 153 has not had a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

   In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,   Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  ,  a
replacement of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes , and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements   ( SFAS 154 ). SFAS 154 changes the
requirements for the accounting for, and reporting of, a change in accounting principle. Previously, voluntary changes in accounting principles were generally required to be recognized by way of a cumulative effect adjustment within net income
during the period of the change. SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS 154 is
effective for accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005; however, the statement does not change the transition provisions of any existing accounting pronouncements. We do not believe adoption of SFAS 154 will
have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.       Results of operations        Overview       During 2005 our paid admissions decreased 11% compared to
2004. This was driven by softness in our outer-U.S. and Florida markets, which decreased 19% and 10%, respectively. In 2005, we experienced several challenges which adversely affected our attendance comparisons to 2004. First, we posted all-time
attendance records in 2004 aided by our  Revenge of the Mummy  sm       attraction, which has been our highest rated attraction at Universal Studios Florida since its opening. Second, consumer sentiment eroded during the first half of the year and then dropped sharply in late summer as gas prices spiked
to record highs. Third, the increased price of gas adversely affected travel to Orlando from our outer-U.S. and Florida markets. Finally, this summer Disney launched its 50   th    anniversary celebration supported by discounted long length of stay tickets, discounted onsite hotel packages, increases in advertising, and new product
offerings.       Our international market grew by 2% during 2005 helping to offset the decreases in our domestic markets. Favorable foreign exchange
rates, particularly in Europe, helped our international market as we saw 12% growth in our paid attendance from the United Kingdom, which represents approximately two-thirds of our international market.      Despite this attendance shortfall, our total operating revenues decreased by less than 2% largely due to an 8% increase in per capita spending stemming from a
combination of new revenue generating programs and a price increase in December 2004. These results in conjunction with diligent management of our variable labor and operating expenses during non-peak times helped us increase EBITDA by $3.2 million,
or 1%, compared to 2004. Due to the impact of our refinancing in December 2004, which included $450.0 million in incremental debt and lower interest rates on UCDP s senior secured credit facility, interest expense increased by $23.1 million
during 2005. As a result, net income decreased by $19.6 million. At December 31, 2005, we had $156.3 million in cash and unused revolving credit, consisting of $56.3 million in cash and $100.0 million available under our revolving credit
facilities. Additionally, as of December 31, 2005, we carried $1,491.3 million in total debt.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

    2005 compared to 2004       The following table summarizes our results of operations during the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 (in thousands except per capita amounts):       
    Paid Theme Park Admissions decreased primarily due to weakness in our domestic point of origin markets.
Specifically, our outer-U.S. and Florida markets experienced decreased paid attendance of 19% and 10%, respectively, partially offset by 2% growth in our international market, as previously described in the  Overview  section. The modification
of our year end combined with 2004 being a leap year provided 2004 with five additional business days. Both years were directly affected by hurricane related park closures with the parks being closed one and three days in 2005 and 2004,
respectively.      Increased spending per guest was more than offset by the volume shortfall resulting in a 3.6% year to year reduction in Theme Park Pass
Revenue. In Theme Park Food and Beverage and Theme Park Merchandise, growth in per capita spending and enhancements of new revenue streams more than offset the volume weakness resulting in a slight year to year improvement. Other Revenue increased
by $13.1 million, or 6.4%, principally due to $5.4 million in incremental rental income related to the onsite resort hotels. We are entitled to receive additional ground rent from the onsite hotels upon their achievement of certain cash flow
targets, and 2005 marked the first year that these targets were reached. Although we believe these targets will be met in the coming year, the amount of any additional rent is subject to variation as well as a cap. Furthermore, we can not assure you
that the targets will be met in future periods. In addition to our additional hotel rental income, we also experienced $3.6 million in higher revenue related to the timing of pass holder redemptions; $2.4 million of increased revenue from our travel
company, Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations; and $2.1 million in additional revenue from our corporate sponsorships.      Theme Park Operations
increased by $3.0 million, which was largely due to $2.0 million in incremental entertainment costs and $1.5 million in increased utility expenses. The entertainment costs arose from our new attraction,  Fear Factor Live , which opened in
May 2005 and the expansion of our Mardi Gras event from 7 to 13 nights. Utility costs also increased as oil and gas prices reached record highs during the summer of 2005. Our ability to reduce variable park operation labor costs helped offset these
costs. The decrease in Theme Park Selling, General and Administrative was primarily due to $13.0 million in lower expenses related to our long-term incentive and bonus plans; $3.5 million in lower insurance premiums; and $1.9 million from
decreased marketing costs. For a more detailed description of our bonus plans, please refer to  Item 11. Executive Compensation . As a percentage of theme park food and beverage and merchandise revenue, Cost of Products Sold decreased
slightly from 51.7%         
   32   

Table of Contents  

   during 2004 to 51.0% during 2005, due to recording an additional provision for merchandise inventory of $2.0 million
in 2004. Depreciation and Amortization was favorable largely due to certain assets with lives of 5 years becoming fully depreciated during 2004 and 2005. Other Costs and Operating Expenses increased by $9.5 million, or 8%, which was principally
due to $3.2 million of costs incurred to support revenue growth at Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations; $2.3 million in expenses to upgrade our environmental, health and safety procedures; $2.3 million in reorganization costs; and $1.3
million in increased credit card fees stemming from increased usage of our in-house online ticket store. These items were offset partially by the absence of $1.3 million in refinancing costs that were expensed in December 2004 as the result of the
refinancing of UCDP s senior secured credit facility. The increase in our non-operating expenses was primarily caused by interest expense, which increased from $118.7 million to $141.8 million, or $23.1 million, as a result of our note issuance
in December 2004. Additionally, we incurred $3.6 million of unfavorability related to changes in the fair market value of our interest rate swaps.       2004
compared to 2003       The following table summarizes our results of operations during the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 27, 2003 (in
thousands except per capita amounts):       
    Paid Theme Park Admissions increased in 2004 due to an overall improvement in the tourism industry, as well as the
impact of our marketing programs and the success of our new rides at Universal Studios Florida, including  Revenge of the Mummy  SM      , which opened in 2004, and Jimmy Neutron s Nicktoon Blast          and Shrek 4-D         , which both opened during the first half of 2003. This growth includes five extra days due to the modification of our year end. However, our admissions growth was achieved in spite of
several hurricanes hitting Central Florida during August and September of 2004, which required us to close our parks for three days. All our point of origin markets continue to show improvement versus 2003, including growth of 26%, 11%, and 9%,
respectively, in our international, outer United States, and Florida markets.       Theme Park Pass Revenue was favorable by $73.8 million due to
higher theme park paid admissions and selective increases in         
   33   

Table of Contents  

   theme park pass prices. The net impact of these two items was an increase of $1.63 per paid guest. Theme Park Food and
Beverage, Theme Park Merchandise and Other Revenue were also favorable. Theme Park Food and Beverage and Theme Park Merchandise increased by $16.1 million and $15.6 million, respectively, due to higher theme park admissions and guest per
capita spending of $0.81 per turnstile admission. In addition, Other Revenue contained $10.5 million in additional revenue from our CityWalk venues (including UCRP); $6.8 million in additional revenue related to passes that allow guests
value-added access to our rides; $7.3 million in additional revenue from Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations; $4.6 million in incremental special event business; $2.5 million in additional revenue related to the timing of
pass holder redemptions; and $1.8 million from additional parking revenue, which all more than offset $2.8 million in lower revenues from our corporate sponsorships. We estimate that the five additional days in 2004 provided us with
approximately $20.0 million in additional revenue, while the hurricanes resulted in approximately $20.0 million in estimated lost revenues.      Our
favorable results from paid admissions also directly affected some of our expenses. Theme Park Operations increased, which was largely due to $4.6 million related to both an increase in admissions and training our personnel and operating our
new rides. The increase in Theme Park Selling, General and Administrative was primarily due to $14.7 million in additional accruals related to our long-term incentive and bonus plans; $9.8 million related to additional marketing; and
$3.5 million in direct costs related to the hurricanes. As a percentage of theme park food and beverage and merchandise revenue, Cost of Products Sold decreased slightly from 52.3% during 2003 to 51.7% during 2004, in spite of recording an
additional provision for merchandise inventory of $2.0 million. Depreciation and Amortization was favorable largely due to certain assets with lives of 5 years becoming fully depreciated during 2004. Other Costs and Operating Expenses
increased, which was principally due to $6.3 million related to revenue growth at our CityWalk venues (including UCRP); $5.7 million related to revenue growth from Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations; and $1.8 million related
to increased revenue from special events. Other Expenses were favorable primarily due to changes in the fair market value of our interest rate swaps, reductions in our interest expense due to prepayments on our long-term debt and gains from the sale
of undeveloped land.       Liquidity, capital resources and financial position        Overview       We believe our ability to generate cash flows from operations is a key financial strength as well as our
principal source of liquidity. We have generated positive cash flows from operations for each of the past five years, and we believe that we will continue to generate positive cash flows from operations in 2006 and in future years. In addition to
the cash flow generated from our operations, our available cash and UCDP s unused revolving credit facilities also provide liquidity. As such, we believe that we have the financial resources necessary to meet business requirements for the next
12 months. Historically, our principal liquidity requirements have been for capital expenditures, special fee payments, debt retirements, and working capital.      Our current business structure is heavily leveraged, and as of December 31, 2005, our total debt was $1,491.3 million. This primarily included $544.5 million outstanding under UCDP s senior secured credit agreement,
$496.5 million outstanding under the April 2010 senior unsecured notes ($500.0 million, net of a remaining unamortized discount of $3.5 million), and $450.0 million outstanding under the May 2010 senior unsecured notes. At
December 31, 2004, our total debt was $1,495.6 million, which included $550.0 million outstanding under UCDP s senior secured credit agreement, $495.6 million outstanding under April 2010 senior unsecured notes
($500.0 million, net of a remaining discount of $4.4 million) and $450.0 million outstanding under the May 2010 senior unsecured notes. Both issuances of notes are due in 2010, while UCDP s senior secured credit agreement calls for
quarterly principal installments of 0.25% with the remainder due in 2011. UCDP s senior secured credit facility is repayable in full at December 1, 2009, if the April 2010 notes are not refinanced or repaid in full prior to such date, or
January 1, 2010, if the May 2010 notes are not refinanced or repaid in full prior to such date. It is highly unlikely that we will be able to generate enough cash to pay these balances in full prior to the specified due dates which would then
necessitate refinancing our long-term debt. Furthermore, our access to capital markets and our ability to issue various securities to raise capital could be affected by changes in our bond ratings. Although our bond rating remained consistent
throughout 2005, we can not be assured that future changes in our ratings will not occur.      Additionally, UCDP has an agreement (the  Consulting
Agreement ) with a consultant (the  Consultant ) under which UCDP pays a fee equal to a percentage of UCDP s gross revenues for consulting services in connection with the attractions and certain other facilities owned by UCDP.
The Consulting Agreement has no expiration date, and starting in June 2010, the Consultant has the right to terminate the periodic payments under the Consulting Agreement and receive instead one payment equal to the fair market value of the
interest in the Orlando parks and any comparable projects. This event could impact our liquidity as discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors . For further information on the Consulting Agreement please refer to  Item 13. Certain
relationships and related party transactions Consultant agreement .         
   34   

Table of Contents  

   We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will
be available to us under UCDP s amended and restated senior secured credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. Our ability to continue to fund these items and to
continue to reduce debt could be adversely affected by the occurrence of unfavorable events.      As a significant portion of our debt is subject to variable
rates, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements to help reduce our interest rate risk. Please refer to  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  for further discussion of these agreements and our
strategy to manage our interest rate risk. The following table summarizes key aspects in our financial position and liquidity as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004:       

(1)  
  Long-term obligations include long-term borrowings (excluding current portions), long-term capital lease obligations and long-term deferred special fees.     
  Our management assesses operational performance using EBITDA because it is used by some investors as a measure of our ability to service debt. In addition, it is the
primary basis in the UCDP senior secured credit agreement to determine our quarterly compliance with our funded debt ratio and the interest coverage ratio, which is computed based on the prior twelve months. We believe the UCDP senior secured credit
agreement is a material agreement as it represents a critical component of our capital structure and an important source of our liquidity. Our failure to comply with the financial maintenance covenants in the UCDP senior secured credit agreement
would result in an event of default occurring under the agreement which would give our lenders the right to accelerate all of the indebtedness then outstanding under that agreement. EBITDA represents earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation
and amortization. EBITDA is not prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative for net income, net cash provided by operating activities and other combined income or
cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles or as a measure of profitability or liquidity. EBITDA, because it is before debt service, capital expenditures, and working capital needs,
does not represent cash that is available for other purposes at our discretion. Our presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by
operating activities to EBITDA for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands):       
       
   35   

Table of Contents  

    Financing transactions       On December 9, 2004, we refinanced UCDP s senior secured credit facility with JPMorgan Chase (the  2004 Amendment ) resulting in amended and restated senior secured credit facilities consisting of a $550.0 million
term loan (the  senior secured credit facility ) and a $100.0 million revolving credit facility. In addition we may borrow up to $200.0 million of incremental term loans from time to time. Part of the proceeds was used to
refinance our existing term loan of approximately $507.4 million. Our refinanced loan now requires quarterly principal installments of 0.25% with $517.0 million due in 2011 (due in 2009 or 2010 if the April 2010 notes or the May 2010 notes
are not repaid or refinanced as discussed previously). The borrowings under UCDP s senior secured credit agreement bear interest at a rate equal to an applicable margin plus, at our option, either (a) a base rate determined by reference to
the higher of (1) JPMorgan Chase Bank s prime rate and (2) the federal funds rate plus             1/2 of 1% or (b) LIBOR. As a result of the refinancing of UCDP s senior secured credit facility, the margin was
adjusted from approximately 4.0% to 2.0% with respect to the LIBOR borrowings. Funds borrowed on the revolving credit facility accrue interest at an incremental 0.25% compared to borrowings on the senior secured credit facility. In addition to
paying interest on outstanding debt, we pay a commitment fee equal to 0.5% per annum of the unutilized commitments under UCDP s revolving credit facility. Additionally, certain covenants were modified, and we were able to reduce the
interest rate by approximately 2%. Total fees and expenses associated with the 2004 Amendment were approximately $11.0 million.      Also on
December 9, 2004, Holdings and Finance issued $450.0 million in notes. Of this total, $150.0 million bears interest at 8.375%, while the remaining $300.0 million bears interest at the London Interbank Offer Rate ( LIBOR ) plus 4.75%.
All of the notes mature in May 2010. The proceeds from the notes were used to pay distributions to our Partners of $450.0 million. Total fees and expenses associated with the note offering were approximately $13.4 million.      On March 28, 2003, UCDP issued $500.0 million in notes (which were issued at a discount of $5.8 million and are due in April 2010) and amended UCDP s
senior secured credit agreement with JP Morgan Chase Bank and the other banks party thereto. The amendment to UCDP s senior secured credit agreement required that a portion of the proceeds from the offering of the notes be used to prepay
$372.8 million of outstanding indebtedness under UCDP s senior secured credit agreement. In connection with the amendment, the debt amortization schedule until December 31, 2004 was eliminated, certain covenants were modified, and an
additional $50.0 million revolving credit facility was made available by several of the banks that are parties to UCDP s senior secured credit agreement. Further, a portion of the proceeds from the offering of the notes was used to repay
and cancel our $50.0 million revolving credit facilities with Wachovia Bank and Fleet National Bank and to increase our cash by $50.0 million.       Cash flow summary       The following table summarizes key aspects of our cash flows for each of the last three
fiscal years:       
    The decrease in cash flow from operations from 2004 to 2005, which totaled $40.9 million, or 35%, resulted
from $19.6 million in lower net income; $18.0 million in incremental payments related to our 2004 bonus plans; and $12.3 million in higher interest payments largely attributable to the May 2010 notes issued in December 2004. These items were
partially offset by reduced payments of special fees to Vivendi Universal Entertainment of $12.1 million.      The decrease from 2003 to 2004, which totaled
$26.3 million, or 18%, was due to $85.6 million of incremental payments on the deferred special fee payable; $11.6 million of lower depreciation; $9.6 million in incremental payments related to a legal settlement; and other working capital items.
These items were partially offset by the increase in our net income of $72.5 million during 2004.         
   36   

Table of Contents  

   Cash flows used in investing activities for 2005 and 2004 consisted primarily of capital expenditures partially offset by
total proceeds from land sales and capital claims settlements of $6.1 million and $4.1 million, respectively. During 2003, the total consisted of $53.5 million in capital expenditures, offset by $15.5 million from the settlement of capital
claims, $13.0 million in proceeds from the sale of property and equipment, and $10.9 million of proceeds related to capital reimbursements. The cash inflows for 2003 primarily included $10.9 million in cost-sharing reimbursement proceeds, which
was recorded as a reduction to our property and equipment, from Universal Studios Japan related to the design and technology of The Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man  ride; $12.5 million in proceeds related to selling 81 acres of undeveloped
land; and $14.5 million in proceeds related to a 2002 capital claims settlement.      Much of our capital expenditures are spent in support of building
new attractions. These costs can vary from one year to the next. While we intend to spend approximately $50.0 million to $60.0 million per year on capital expenditures, some years may be above or below that range depending on the timing of the
construction cycles. Due to project timing, we spent $30.4 million on capital expenditures during 2005, thus we estimate our capital expenditures to be approximately $65.0 million during 2006.      During 2005 the primary components of our financing outflows were $20.0 million in Partner distributions and $5.5 million in payments on UCDP s senior secured
credit facility. During 2004 the primary components of the financing outflow were $455.0 million in Partner distributions; $173.2 million of prepayments on UCDP s senior secured credit agreement; and $22.6 million of debt financing
costs. These items were partially offset by $450.0 million in proceeds from the notes and $42.6 million in net proceeds from UCDP s senior secured credit agreement amendment.      During 2003, net cash used in financing activities principally related to $488.7 million in debt payments primarily on UCDP s senior secured credit agreement; $22.1 million in payments related to deferred finance
costs; and $10.0 million in Partner distributions. These items were offset partially by the proceeds from the offering of the April 2010 notes.       Special fee requirements       Under UCDP s partnership agreement, a  special fee  is payable to Vivendi Universal Entertainment
through Universal CPM. The special fee is calculated at 5% of certain gross operating revenues, as defined in UCDP s partnership agreement, generated from each of Universal Studios Florida and Universal s Islands of Adventure. For 2005,
2004 and 2003, the special fee payable was $35.3 million, $36.6 million, and $30.6 million, respectively. For 2005, 2004 and 2003, the interest incurred on the deferred special fee payable to Vivendi Universal Entertainment was
$1.6 million, $6.1 million, and $4.9 million, respectively. The decrease in the interest from 2004 to 2005 resulted from our payment of all previously deferred amounts during 2005.      Historically under the terms of UCDP s senior secured credit facility and the April 2010 notes, the special fee related to both Universal Studios Florida and
Universal s Islands of Adventure could only be paid upon achievement of certain but different leverage ratios. These ratios were met as of our quarter end throughout 2004 and 2005 thus allowing the special fee to be paid. Under the terms of
UCDP s partnership agreement, fees related to revenue derived from operations of Universal s Islands of Adventure were deferred since its opening in 1999 until equity distributions to Blackstone, from operating profits generated from
Universal s Islands of Adventure, total an amount equal to $234.7 million. As a result of distributions made in December 2004 to Blackstone by Holdings, Blackstone acknowledged, as between the partners, that the equity distribution
condition to the payment of Universal s Islands of Adventure special fees has been satisfied. Accordingly, going forward, the special fee payable related to Universal s Islands of Adventure is able to be paid when leverage ratios are met.
     Subsequent to the 2004 Amendment, the most restrictive quarterly covenant for payment of the special fee is a debt to EBITDA ratio (as defined in the
senior secured credit facility) of 5.0 to 1.0 or less related to the current special fees below $20.0 million and 4.0 to 1.0 or less related to the current and deferred special fees in excess of $20.0 million annually. As of each quarter end, we
have been in compliance with this ratio. Accordingly, during 2005 and 2004, we paid total fees of $73.6 million and $85.6 million, respectively, to Vivendi Universal Entertainment. At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, the
current portion of our combined balance sheet included $7.8 million and $17.9 million, respectively, related to the special fees payable to Vivendi Universal Entertainment. At December 31, 2004, we had long-term deferred special fees
payable to Vivendi Universal Entertainment of $26.6 million. This balance was paid in full during 2005.      We used $70.0 million of our proceeds
from the issuance of the May 2010 notes to purchase from Vivendi Universal Entertainment its right to receive from UCDP the most recently accrued $70.0 million of deferred special fees relating to         
   37   

Table of Contents  

   Universal s Islands of Adventure. As our financial statements consolidate UCDP, this receivable has been eliminated.
In addition, $50.0 million of the next most recently accrued deferred special fees relating to Universal s Islands of Adventure and Universal Studios Florida were forgiven and treated as an equity contribution by both Vivendi Universal
Entertainment and Blackstone. Pursuant to certain subordination agreements, the special fee may not be paid if there is an event of default (or to the knowledge of our officers a default) under UCDP s senior secured credit facility, the April
2010 notes or the May 2010 notes.       Covenant stipulations       UCDP s senior secured credit agreement, the April 2010 senior unsecured notes and the May 2010 senior unsecured notes contain a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our ability, and the
ability of our subsidiaries, to sell assets, incur additional indebtedness, repay other indebtedness (including the notes), pay certain distributions, create liens on assets, make investments, loans or advances, make certain acquisitions, engage in
mergers or consolidations, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, amend certain material agreements governing our indebtedness and change the business conducted by us and our subsidiaries. In
addition, the amended and restated senior secured credit agreement contains the following financial covenants: a maximum total leverage ratio; a minimum interest coverage ratio; and a limitation on capital expenditures. We were in compliance with
all financial covenants as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004.       Contractual obligations       The following table reflects our estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005:       

(1)  
  Amounts exclude discounts and therefore represent gross maturities.     

(2)  
  This amount is comprised of the remaining principal due on UCDP s senior secured credit agreement after our fiscal 2010. UCDP s senior secured credit agreement is
repayable in full at December 1, 2009, if the April 2010 notes are not refinanced or repaid in full prior to such date, or January 1, 2010, if the May 2010 notes are not refinanced or repaid in full prior to such date.
        Forward Looking Statements       This report
contains  forward looking statements.  Forward looking statements include statements concerning our plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events, future revenue or performance, capital expenditures, financing needs, plans or
intentions relating to acquisitions, business trends and other information that is not historical information and, in particular, appear under the headings  Summary,   Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition
and results of operations,   Industry overview  and  Business.  When used in this report, the words  estimates,   expects,   anticipates,   projects,   plans, 
 intends,   believes,   forecasts,  or future or conditional verbs, such as  will,   should,   could  or  may  and variations of such words or similar expressions are intended to
identify forward looking statements. All forward looking statements, including, without limitation, management s examination of historical operating trends and data, are based upon our current expectations and various assumptions. Our
expectations, beliefs and projections are expressed in good faith and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them. However, there can be no assurance that management s expectations, beliefs and projections will be achieved.      There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements contained in this report.
Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements we make in this report including:       

the risks and uncertainties relating to a general economic downturn;           
   38   

Table of Contents  

the dependence of our business on air travel;         

the risks inherent in deriving substantially all of our revenues from one location;         

the loss of key distribution channels for pass sales;         

competition within the Orlando theme park market;         

publicity associated with accidents occurring at theme parks;         

the loss of material intellectual property rights used in our business;         

the seasonality of our business;         

the substantial indebtedness of us and of our subsidiaries;         

our dependence on Universal Studios, Inc. and its affiliates;         

the additional risks set forth in this report, including under the heading  Item 1A. Risk Factors.         There may be other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements.      All forward looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this report and are expressly qualified in their entirety
by the cautionary statements included in this report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward looking statements which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date made or to reflect the occurrence of
unanticipated events.       
  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk       We are exposed to market risks relating to
fluctuations in interest rates. Our practice is to utilize derivative financial instruments to manage a portion of these interest rate risks. As a result, we have $584.1 million of unhedged variable rate debt. Based on these variable-rate
obligations, each 1% increase or decrease in the level of interest rates would, respectively, increase or decrease our annual interest expense and related cash payments by approximately $5.84 million. Such potential increases or decreases are
based on certain simplifying assumptions, including a constant level of variable-rate debt for all maturities and an immediate, across-the-board increase or decrease in the level of interest rates with no other subsequent changes for the remainder
of the period.      We are party to a total of eight interest rate swap agreements as depicted in the tables below. Changes in the fair value of interest rate
swaps that qualify for hedge accounting treatment as cash flow hedges under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 ( SFAS 133 ),   Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  , are
deemed effective and recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the statements of changes in partners  equity ( OCI ). Conversely, changes in the fair value of interest rate swaps that do not qualify for hedge
accounting treatment are deemed ineffective and recorded in the statements of operations. We are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the other party to the derivative financial instruments. We limit this exposure by entering
into agreements directly with a number of major financial institutions that meet our credit standards and that are expected to satisfy fully their obligations under the contracts. We view derivative financial instruments as a risk management tool
and do not use them for speculative or trading purposes. The following table summarizes key aspects of our interest rate swaps:       
       
   39   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the impact of our interest rate swaps on our financial position as of December 31,
2005 and December 31, 2004 (in thousands):       
    The following table summarizes the changes in fair value of our interest rate swaps during the years ended
December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 27, 2003 (in thousands):       

(1)  
  Swaps #1 through #4 became ineffective as the result of our refinancing in December 2004. During the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively,
$5.4 million and $0.3 million, was amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining useful lives of these interest rate swaps from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the statement of changes in partners  equity to
change in the fair value of interest rate swaps in the combined statement of operations.           
   40   

Table of Contents  

(2)  
  This swap provides that UCDP receive an interest rate of 11.75% (computed on a bond basis) in exchange for payment of six month LIBOR, plus 8.01% subject to a LIBOR interest
rate collar between 3.58% and 5.25% with a floor knockout if LIBOR falls below 1.15%.           
   41   

Table of Contents  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data       The following combined financial statements, and the related notes
thereto, of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II. and subsidiaries and the Report of the Independent Registered Certified Public Accounting Firm are filed as a part of this report.       INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        

Report of Independent Registered Certified Public Accounting Firm   
      
  43   

Combined Balance Sheets   
      
  44   

Combined Statements of Operations   
      
  46   

Combined Statements of Changes in Partners  Equity   
      
  47   

Combined Statements of Cash Flows   
      
  48   

Notes to Combined Financial Statements   
      
  50   
       
   42   

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Certified Public Accounting Firm       The Partners   
  Universal City Florida Holding Company I      and      Universal City Florida Holding Company II      We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheets of Universal City Florida Holding Company I
and Universal City Florida Holding Company II (collectively referred to as UCHC) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related combined statements of operations, changes in partners  equity, and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years
in the period ended December 31, 2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of UCHC s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of UCHC s internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included
consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of UCHC s internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the combined financial position of Universal City Florida Holding Company I and Universal City Florida Holding
Company II at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the combined results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
     /s/ Ernst   Young LLP      Orlando, Florida      February 10, 2006, except for paragraphs 4 and 9 of Note 11   
  as to which the date is March 28, 2006         
   43   

Table of Contents  

UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I AND        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II AND SUBSIDIARIES
       COMBINED BALANCE SHEETS        
       
   44   

Table of Contents  

See accompanying notes.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I AND        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II AND SUBSIDIARIES
       COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS        
    See accompanying notes.         
   46   

Table of Contents  

UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I AND        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II AND SUBSIDIARIES
       COMBINED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN PARTNERS  EQUITY        
    See accompanying notes.         
   47   

Table of Contents  

UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I AND        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II AND SUBSIDIARIES
       COMBINED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        
       
   48   

Table of Contents  

See accompanying notes.         
   49   

Table of Contents  

UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I AND        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II AND SUBSIDIARIES
       NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        1. Nature of Business        Ownership       Universal City Florida Holding Co. I ( Holding I ) and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II ( Holding II ) are general partnerships organized in Florida. Through a holding partnership and a limited liability company,
the ultimate owners (the  Partners ), each having a 50% interest in us, are Universal City Property Management II LLC ( Universal CPM ), a subsidiary of Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP ( Vivendi Universal
Entertainment ), which in turn is a subsidiary of NBC Universal, Inc. ( NBCU ), and Blackstone Capital Partners ( Blackstone ). Both Partners share in profits and losses, contributions and distributions in Holding I and
Holding II in accordance with their respective ownership percentages. Subject to certain exceptions, neither Blackstone nor Universal CPM may transfer or sell their respective partnership interests, sell, pledge or encumber significant assets, issue
securities or admit any additional partner or change the primary business without the consent of the other Partner.      Holding I and Holding II (collectively
 Holdings ) are required to distribute to the Partners all of their available cash, as defined, within 30 days after the end of each fiscal semi-annual period and amounts equal to the partners  combined federal, state, local and
foreign income taxes on their share of the partnership s income. The senior secured credit agreement (the  senior secured credit facility ) and the senior unsecured notes (the  April 2010 notes ) of Universal City
Development Partners, Ltd. ( UCDP ), a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdings, restrict UCDP from making any distributions to Holding I and Holding II unless certain financial ratios are satisfied.      Prior to May 11, 2004, Vivendi Universal Entertainment was owned by Vivendi Universal, S.A. ( Vivendi ). On May 11, 2004, General Electric Company
( GE ), National Broadcasting Company Holding, Inc., National Broadcasting Company, Inc. ( NBC ), Vivendi, and Universal Studios Holding III Corp., concluded a transaction pursuant to which GE and Vivendi combined the
respective businesses of NBC, Universal Studios, Inc. ( USI ), Universal Pictures International Holdings B.V., and Universal Pictures International Holdings 2 B.V. and their respective subsidiaries (the  NBC Universal
Transaction ). In connection with the NBC Universal Transaction, NBC changed its corporate name to NBCU. GE owns 80% of NBCU, and Vivendi controls the remaining 20%. After this transaction, NBCU indirectly owned approximately 94.5% of Vivendi
Universal Entertainment which indirectly owns a 50% interest in UCDP (through Holdings). Vivendi Universal Entertainment is a non-wholly owned subsidiary of USI and certain of its affiliates which are in turn indirect wholly owned subsidiaries
of NBCU. The 50% ownership interest in UCDP held by Blackstone was not affected by the NBC Universal Transaction.      During June 2005, NBCU purchased
the 5.5% minority interest in Vivendi Universal Entertainment. As a result of the transaction, Vivendi Universal Entertainment is now wholly owned by NBCU.       Operations       Holdings, through UCDP, owns and operates two themed attractions, Universal s Islands of Adventure ( IOA ) and
Universal Studios Florida ( USF  an entertainment complex, Universal CityWalk Orlando ( CityWalk  sound stages; and movie and television production facilities all located in Orlando, Florida.       2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        Principles of
Consolidation       The accompanying combined financial statements include the consolidated amounts of Holding I and Holding II and all of their
subsidiaries, UCFH I Finance, Inc., UCFH II Finance, Inc., UCDP, Universal City Travel Partners d/b/a Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations ( UPRV ), UCDP Finance, Inc., and Universal City Restaurant Partners, Ltd.
( UCRP ) (collectively,  UCHC ). All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation.      UCDP
has a 99% ownership interest in UPRV. The 1% limited partnership is owned by Holding II, a related party. Management has excluded the minority interest based on it being insignificant to the accompanying combined financial statements.        In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Interpretation ( FIN ) 46,  Consolidation of    
     
   50   

Table of Contents  

    Variable Interest Entities  ( FIN 46 ). FIN 46 provides a new framework for identifying variable interest
entities ( VIEs ) and determining when a company should include the assets, liabilities, noncontrolling interests and results of activities of a VIE in its consolidated financial statements. In general, a VIE is a corporation, partnership,
limited-liability corporation, trust or any other legal structure used to conduct activities or hold assets that either (1) has an insufficient amount of equity to carry out its principal activities without additional subordinated financial
support, (2) has a group of equity owners that are unable to make significant decisions about its activities, or (3) has a group of equity owners that do not have the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive returns generated by
its operations. FIN 46 requires a VIE to be consolidated if a party with an ownership, contractual or other financial interest in the VIE (a variable interest holder) is obligated to absorb a majority of the risk of loss from the VIE s
activities, is entitled to receive a majority of the VIE s residual returns (if no party absorbs a majority of the VIE s losses), or both. A variable interest holder that consolidates the VIE is called the primary beneficiary. Upon
consolidation, the primary beneficiary generally must initially record all of the VIE s assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests at fair value and subsequently account for the VIE as if it were consolidated based on majority voting
interest. FIN 46 also requires disclosures about VIEs that the variable interest holder is not required to consolidate but in which it has a significant variable interest. Through UCDP, Holdings owns a 50% interest in UCRP, which prior to 2003 was
accounted for under the equity method. UCRP operates a restaurant in CityWalk. Both joint venture partners share in profits and losses, contributions and distributions of the joint venture in accordance with their ownership percentage. The capital
contributions necessary for the construction of UCRP were funded entirely by UCDP. The other joint venture partner received a 50% interest in the joint venture in exchange for the trademark name. Therefore, based on FIN 46, UCHC determined that UCRP
is a variable interest entity. Accordingly, the combined financial statements of UCHC include the results of UCRP for 2003 and all subsequent periods. Total assets of UCRP at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 were approximately
$18,270,000 and $21,644,000, respectively. Total revenues of UCRP during the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 27, 2003 were approximately $26,905,000, $27,374,000 and $24,056,000, respectively, and were
included in other operating revenues in the accompanying financial statements.       Use of Estimates       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management of UCHC to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.       Period End       Prior to 2004, UCHC s year-end was the last Saturday of the year. In connection with the NBC Universal Transaction, UCHC changed the date of its year-end to December 31. As a result, the years ended December 31,
2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003 contained 365, 370, and 364 days, respectively.       Cash and Cash Equivalents    
  Cash and cash equivalents consist of amounts held as bank deposits and marketable securities with original maturities of 90 days or less.       Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts       UCHC carries
its accounts receivables at their net realizable value thereby making judgments regarding the collectability of outstanding accounts receivables and providing appropriate allowances when collectability becomes in doubt. In addition, UCHC provides a
general allowance for outstanding receivables in good standing based on historical bad debt experience. The allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately $1,669,000, $1,252,000, $891,000, and $2,694,000, respectively, at December 31, 2005,
December 31, 2004, December 27, 2003, and December 28, 2002. During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003, respectively, UCHC recorded an additional allowance for outstanding
receivables of approximately $1,040,000, $740,000, and $340,000. During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003, respectively, UCHC recorded a reduction to the allowance for outstanding receivables
of approximately $623,000, $379,000, and $2,143,000.       Inventories       Inventories, principally spare parts, merchandise and food, are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the         
   51   

Table of Contents  

   average cost method. UCHC records a provision for the value of inventory, which has been deemed to have a realizable
value that is less than the average cost. UCHC s inventories are comprised of the following components (in thousands):       
    The reserve for merchandise and food amounted to approximately $1,005,000, $1,722,000, $1,137,000, and $1,651,000,
respectively, at December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, December 27, 2003, and December 28, 2002. During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003, respectively, UCHC recorded an
additional merchandise and food reserve of approximately $1,518,000, $3,796,000, and $1,304,000. During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003, respectively, UCHC used approximately $2,235,000,
$3,211,000, and $1,818,000, of the merchandise and food reserve.      The reserve for spare parts amounted to approximately $57,000, $128,000, $1,412,000, and
$1,181,000, respectively, at December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, December 27, 2003, and December 28, 2002. During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003, respectively, UCHC
recorded an additional spare parts reserve provision of approximately $126,000, $417,000, and $231,000. During the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, $197,000 and $1,701,000 was recorded as a reduction to
the spare parts reserve. During the year ended December 27, 2003, no amount was recorded as a reduction to the spare parts reserve.       Investments in
Joint Ventures       In conjunction with the construction and operation of CityWalk, UCDP has joint venture relationships in which it shared in construction
costs and the profits and losses, as defined in each separate agreement. In addition to UCRP, UCDP has an equity interest in NASCAR Cafe/Orlando Joint Venture and Universal/Cineplex Odeon Joint Venture ( Cineplex Odeon ), respectively, of
25% and 50%. UCDP s interest in each of these joint ventures is accounted for under the equity method of accounting for investments in the accompanying financial statements. The investment in joint ventures is recorded as UCHC s share of
construction costs, adjusted for profits and losses, distributions and contributions for each joint venture.      Historically, UCDP had a 20% equity interest
in Motown Caf  Orlando, L.P., LLLP ( Motown ), a restaurant located in CityWalk. On December 31, 2004, Motown was dissolved. In connection with this transaction, UCDP terminated the lease with Motown, wrote off its remaining
investment in Motown of $82,000 and forgave outstanding receivables due from Motown of approximately $2,096,000. In return, ownership to the leasehold improvements was transferred from Motown to UCDP. During the year ended December 31, 2004,
the leasehold improvements were recorded at the fair value of approximately $2,990,000. The net impact of these items of approximately $812,000 was included as an offset to other costs and operating expenses in the accompanying combined statements
of operations. As of January 1, 2005, the restaurant ceased to be operated as a Motown Cafe.      Prior to this transaction, UCDP managed Motown. In
connection with these management services, UCHC incurred and was reimbursed for various costs on behalf of Motown, including payroll, property taxes and food purchases. During the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 27, 2003,
respectively, the total amounts received by UCHC from Motown for these expenses were approximately $2,797,000 and $2,524,000. In addition, during the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 27, 2003, respectively, UCHC earned a fee for
these services from Motown of approximately $190,000 and $199,000, which was recorded in other revenues in the accompanying combined statements of operations.       Property and Equipment       Property and equipment is recorded at cost and is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of those assets as follows:       

Useful Life       (In Years)     
 
    Land improvements   
      
  15   
 
    Buildings and building improvements   
      
  20-40   
 
    Equipment, fixtures and furniture   
      
  3-20   
       
   52   

Table of Contents  

   Maintenance and repairs are charged directly to expense as incurred.       Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles       UCHC follows
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 144,  Accounting For the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  ( SFAS 144 ). SFAS 144 requires that one accounting impairment model be used for
long-lived assets to be disposed of by sales, whether previously held and used or newly acquired, and broadens the presentation of discontinued operations to include more disposal transactions.      UCHC reviews its long-lived assets and identifiable intangibles for impairment whenever circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. If the review reveals impairment as indicated based on undiscounted cash flows, the carrying amount of the related long-lived assets or identifiable intangibles are adjusted to fair value. There have been no material impairment losses
recognized on UCHC s long-lived assets or identifiable intangibles.       Intangible Assets       Intangible assets primarily consist of the rights to use certain characters and trademarks. Intangible assets are recorded at cost and amortized on a straight-line basis
over a period ranging from 10 to 20 years, which has a weighted average of 17 years. Amortization of existing intangible assets will be approximately $1,446,000 during each of the next five years.       Deferred Finance Costs       UCHC capitalizes certain costs related to the
issuance of debt. The amortization of such costs is recognized as interest expense based on the effective interest method over the term of the respective debt issuance.       Revenue Recognition       Revenue from theme park pass sales is recognized at the time passes are redeemed. Revenue from
theme park annual pass sales is recognized over the period of benefit, which is typically one year from the initial redemption date. Revenue from food and beverage and merchandise sales is recognized at the time of sale. Unearned revenue primarily
consists of amounts received from the sale of theme park passes, which have not yet been redeemed. In addition to unredeemed passes, unearned revenue includes up-front payments related to CityWalk venues and corporate sponsorships, which is
recognized into revenue over the period of benefit.       Other Operating Revenues       Other operating revenues, which consist primarily of sales generated by CityWalk, UPRV, UCRP, corporate special events, Universal Express Plus ( UEP ), and the parking facility, are recognized as earned.
UCHC hosts special events for corporate guests whereby a portion of the theme park is rented for corporate functions. UEP is a pass that allows guests to experience reduced wait times at certain rides and attractions.       Advertising, Sales and Marketing Costs       The costs of advertising,
sales and marketing are charged to operations in the year incurred. Production costs of advertising are charged to operations at the first showing of the related advertisement. Total costs of advertising, sales and marketing amounted to
approximately $72,804,000, $75,222,000, and $65,604,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003, and are primarily included in theme park selling, general and administrative
expenses in the accompanying combined statements of operations.       Theme Park Cost of Products Sold       Theme park cost of products sold consists of payroll and product costs related to the sale of food and beverage and merchandise at the theme parks.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

    Other Costs and Operating Expenses       Other costs and operating expenses consist primarily of costs incurred by CityWalk, UPRV, UCRP and corporate special events.       Financial Instruments       The carrying amounts reported in the combined balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable,
accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value because of the immediate or short-term maturity of these financial instruments.      The
estimated fair values of other financial instruments subject to fair value disclosures, determined based on quotes from major financial institutions, and the related carrying amounts are as follows (in thousands):       
     Concentration of Credit Risk       Financial instruments that potentially subject UCHC to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of accounts receivable and interest rate swaps. The credit risk associated with accounts receivable is limited by
the volume of customers as well as the establishment of credit limits. UCHC is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to interest rate swap transactions. The counterparties to these contractual arrangements are
major financial institutions that meet UCHC s credit standards with which UCHC also has other financial relationships. UCHC does not anticipate nonperformance by such parties.       Interest Rate Swaps       UCHC utilizes interest rate swap agreements to manage a portion of its interest rate exposures.
The principal objective of the swap agreements is to minimize the risks and costs associated with financial activities. UCHC does not use financial instruments for trading purposes. UCHC specifically designates interest rate swap hedges of
outstanding debt instruments and recognizes interest differentials in the period they occur.      UCHC follows SFAS No. 133,   Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   ( SFAS 133 ), as amended by SFAS No. 149,   Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  , to account for its interest rate
swaps. This standard established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts (collectively referred to as derivatives), and for hedging activities. It requires
that the entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and measure those assets at fair value. The fair values are the estimated amounts that UCHC would pay or receive upon termination of the swap agreements
at the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the counterparties. Changes in the underlying market value of swap arrangements that qualify as cash flow hedging activities under SFAS 133
are recognized as other comprehensive income (loss) in the accompanying combined statements of changes in partners  equity. Changes in the underlying market value of swap arrangements that do not qualify as hedging activities under
SFAS 133 are recognized as a change in the fair value of interest rate swaps in the accompanying combined statements of operations. Additionally, the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to interest rate swaps that become
ineffective is amortized on a straight-line basis through the change in the fair value of interest rate swaps in the accompanying combined statements of operations.       Income Taxes       No provision for income taxes has been recorded in the combined financial statements, as the owners are
required to report their share of UCHC s earnings or losses in their respective income tax returns. The Partners  tax returns and the amounts of allocable income or loss are subject to examination by federal and state taxing authorities.
If such examinations result in changes to income or loss, the tax liability of the Partners could be changed accordingly.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

   Certain transactions of UCHC may be subject to accounting methods for income tax purposes which differ from the
accounting methods used in preparing these combined financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Accordingly, the net income or loss of UCHC reported for income tax purposes may differ from
the balances reported for those same items in the accompanying combined financial statements. The difference in the assets as reported in the combined financial statements and as reported for tax purposes is approximately $934,150,000, while the
difference in liabilities is approximately $6,620,000. The majority of the differences arise primarily due to the use of different estimated useful lives for property and equipment for income tax reporting purposes as compared to those used for
financial reporting purposes.       Stock Options       UCDP has
participated in Vivendi s stock option plan that has provided options to officers, directors and key employees of UCDP. These stock options give UCDP employees the right to purchase Vivendi American Depository Shares at a set price (exercise
price) or receive cash for the difference between the market value and the exercise price on their stock options. All stock options have been granted at market value. At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, UCHC had no liability
related to vested options.      In connection with the NBC Universal Transaction, Vivendi will not be providing new stock options to employees of UCHC.
Historically, UCHC has been responsible for the expense and the cash payment related to these stock options granted prior to the close of the NBC Universal Transaction. However, as part of the NBC Universal Transaction, this responsibility was
transferred to Vivendi. Accordingly, stock options granted prior to the close of the NBC Universal Transaction and exercised after the close of the NBC Universal Transaction have no future impact on UCHC s combined financial statements.
      Litigation       UCHC is currently involved in certain
legal proceedings and has accrued its estimate of the probable legal and settlement costs for the resolution of these claims. If UCHC believes that costs from these matters are probable and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated, it
will accrue the estimated costs. If UCHC believes a loss is less than probable but more than remote, it will disclose the nature of the matter and, if possible, disclose the estimate of the possible loss (see note 11).       Segments       UCHC operates and tracks its results in one reportable
segment in accordance with the aggregation provision of SFAS No. 131,   Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information .        Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements       In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statements of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 153 ( SFAS 153 ),   Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets .  This Statement amends the guidance in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 29 ( APB 29 ),   Accounting for
Nonmonetary Transactions .  APB 29 provided an exception to the basic measurement principle (fair value) for exchanges of similar assets, requiring that some nonmonetary exchanges be recorded on a carryover basis. SFAS 153 eliminates the
exception to fair value for exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a general exception for exchange transactions that do not have commercial substance, that is, transactions that are not expected to result in significant changes
in the cash flows of the reporting entity. The provisions of SFAS 153 are effective for exchanges of nonmonetary assets occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005, although UCHC adopted the provisions effective January 1,
2005 as permitted. As of December 31, 2005, SFAS 153 has not had a material impact on the UCHC s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.      In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,   Accounting Changes and Error Corrections , a replacement of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes , and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting
Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements   ( SFAS 154 ). SFAS 154 changes the requirements for the accounting for, and reporting of, a change in accounting principle. Previously, voluntary changes in accounting principles
were generally required to be recognized by way of a cumulative effect adjustment within net income during the period of the change. SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements, unless it is impracticable
to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005; however, the statement does not change the transition
provisions of any existing accounting pronouncements. UCHC does not believe adoption of SFAS 154 will have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

    3. Long-Term Borrowings       At December 31, 2005, total long-term borrowings were approximately $1,491,313,000, which primarily included $544,500,000 under the senior secured credit facility, $496,459,000 in UCDP s senior unsecured notes (the  April
2010 notes , which have a face value of $500,000,000 and an unamortized discount of approximately $3,541,000), and $450,000,000 in UCHC senior unsecured notes ( May 2010 notes ). At December 31, 2005, $5,800,000 of the total
borrowings were classified as current. At December 31, 2004, total long-term borrowings were approximately $1,495,628,000, which included $550,000,000 under the senior secured credit facility, $495,628,000 in April 2010 notes ($500,000,000, net
of an unamortized discount of approximately $4,372,000) and $450,000,000 in May 2010 notes. At December 31, 2004, $5,500,000 of the total borrowings were classified as current. The UCDP senior secured credit facility is effectively senior to
both issuances of notes, and the May 2010 notes are effectively subordinated to the April 2010 notes issued by UCDP.      On December 9, 2004,
$450,000,000 in May 2010 notes were issued at face value under a Rule 144A Offering ( 2004 Offering ). Of this total, $150,000,000 bears interest at 8.375%, while the remaining $300,000,000 bears interest at the London Interbank Offer Rate
( LIBOR ) plus 4.75%. All of the notes mature in May 2010. The proceeds from the 2004 Offering allowed UCHC to pay total distributions to Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone of $450,000,000. During the year ended
December 31, 2004, total fees and expenses associated with the 2004 Offering were approximately $12,965,000 of which $12,871,000 was capitalized as deferred finance costs and $94,000 was expensed in accordance with EITF 96-19,
  Debtor s Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of Debt Instruments ,  ( EITF 96-19 ). UCHC incurred an additional $380,000 of costs related to the 2004 Offering during the year ended December 31, 2005,
all of which was capitalized as deferred finance costs in accordance with EITF 96-19. At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, UCHC believes it was in compliance with all financial terms of the May 2010 notes.      Also, on December 9, 2004, the senior secured credit facility was refinanced ( 2004 Amendment ), resulting in amended and restated senior secured credit
facilities consisting of a $550,000,000 term loan and a $100,000,000 revolving credit facility. In addition, UCDP may borrow up to $200,000,000 of incremental debt from time to time. Part of the proceeds was used to refinance UCDP s existing
term loan of approximately $507,421,000, and the debt amortization was revised. Additionally, certain covenants were modified. During the year ended December 31, 2004, total fees and expenses associated with the 2004 Amendment were
approximately $10,999,000 of which $9,751,000 was capitalized as deferred finance costs and $1,248,000 was expensed in accordance with EITF 96-19. UCHC incurred an additional $42,000 of costs related to the 2004 Amendment during the year ended
December 31, 2005, all of which was capitalized as deferred finance costs in accordance with EITF 96-19.      The senior secured credit facility consists
of both term loan and revolving credit components with a consortium of lenders led by JPMorgan. The revolving credit component had a maximum available credit line of approximately $100,000,000 at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. No
funds were outstanding on the revolving credit facility at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. The senior secured credit facility is secured by a mortgage on substantially all of UCDP s real and personal property. Borrowings on
the senior secured credit facility bear interest based at UCDP s option on either the prime rate publicly announced by Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York plus a margin, or at the LIBOR plus a margin. This margin was adjusted from
approximately 4% to 2% as part of the 2004 Amendment. At December 31, 2005, the average interest rate under the LIBOR alternative was 6.6% (including the effect of interest rate swap arrangements). At December 31, 2004, the average
interest rate under the LIBOR alternative was 6.1% (including the effect of interest rate swap arrangements). Additionally, a commitment fee of 0.5% per annum is payable on the unused amounts of the revolving credit facility. Currently, the
senior secured credit facility is repayable in quarterly installments of 0.25%, which commenced on March 31, 2005, and end on December 31, 2010. The senior secured credit facility is repayable in full at December 1, 2009, if the April
2010 notes are not refinanced or repaid in full prior to such date, or January 1, 2010, if the May 2010 notes are not refinanced or repaid in full prior to such date. This equates to annual principal payments of 1.0% with $517,000,000 due in
2011. Accordingly, UCHC paid $5,500,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 in connection with the senior secured credit facility s principal amortization schedule. Prior to the amendment, the senior secured credit facility was
repayable in graduating quarterly installments, which commenced on December 31, 1999, and ended on June 30, 2007. The senior secured credit facility also requires a prepayment of 50% of UCDP s annual excess cash flow if certain
financial ratios were not met beginning in 2005. These ratios were met during 2005. As such, no such excess cash flow payment was required as of December 31, 2005 or December 31, 2004. Furthermore, all prepayments are applied in forward
order of maturity. A prepayment requirement also existed prior to the 2004 Amendment and as such, UCDP prepaid $173,224,000 on the senior secured credit facility during the year ended December 31, 2004. The senior         
   56   

Table of Contents  

   secured credit facility contains certain customary limitations. The most restrictive limitations relate to the incurrence
of liens, additional indebtedness and maintenance of funded debt and interest coverage ratios, among others. At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, UCDP believes it was in compliance with all financial terms of the senior secured
credit facility.      On March 28, 2003, UCDP issued $500,000,000 in April 2010 notes (which were issued with a discount of approximately $5,830,000)
under a Rule 144A Offering (the  2003 Offering ) and amended the senior secured credit facility (the  2003 Amendment ). The April 2010 notes mature in 2010 and bear interest at 11.75%. The 2003 Amendment required that
proceeds from the 2003 Offering be used in part to prepay approximately $372,800,000 on the senior secured credit facility. In connection with the 2003 Amendment, the debt amortization schedule was eliminated until December 31, 2004; certain
covenants were modified; and mandatory payments related to excess cash flow were reduced from 75% to 50%. In addition, a $50,000,000 revolving credit facility ( Additional Revolver ) was made available by several of the banks in the senior
secured credit facility. The Additional Revolver had an unused commitment fee of 1.0% and was to be borrowed only after full usage of the senior secured credit facility working capital facility. UCDP incurred approximately $22,960,000 in fees and
expenses associated with the 2003 Offering and 2003 Amendment, of which approximately $22,100,000 was capitalized as deferred finance costs and $860,000 was expensed during the year ended December 27, 2003 in accordance with EITF 96-19. The
April 2010 notes also contain certain customary limitations. The most restrictive limitations relate to the incurrence of additional indebtedness and restricted payments, among other restrictions. At December 31, 2005 and December 31,
2004, UCDP believes it was in compliance with all financial terms of the April 2010 notes.      Prior to March 28, 2003 UCDP had two revolving credit
facilities, the Wachovia Facility and the Fleet Facility. The terms of the Wachovia and Fleet Facilities were identical, which included allowing for borrowings up to $25,000,000 and interest at the higher of the prime rate plus 1.0% or federal funds
rate plus 1.5% per year or at the LIBOR rate plus 2.0%. A commitment fee of 1.0% per year was payable on unused amounts of the facility. The Wachovia and Fleet Facilities contained certain customary limitations and a cross-default
provision with the senior secured credit facility and certain provisions that secured Wachovia and Fleet in the event of a default of principal or interest payments by UCDP. The Wachovia and Fleet Facilities were repaid and cancelled on
March 28, 2003.      Scheduled maturities of amounts drawn at December 31, 2005 are as follows (in thousands):

(1)  
  This amount is comprised of the remaining principal due on the senior secured credit facility after UCHC s fiscal 2010. The senior secured credit facility is repayable in full
at December 1, 2009, if the April 2010 notes are not refinanced or repaid in full prior to such date, or January 1, 2010, if the May 2010 notes are not refinanced or repaid in full prior to such date.        UCHC capitalizes interest on significant capital projects, which require an extended period of time to complete. UCHC capitalized interest of approximately $244,000,
$2,115,000, and $2,261,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003.       4.
Interest Rate Swaps       As of December 31, 2005, UCDP is party to eight interest rate swap agreements. Four of these swap agreements provide for
quarterly reductions in notional value until expiration. As of December 31, 2005 the total notional value of the four interest rate swaps was $110,400,000. These agreements effectively converted the variable interest rate on a portion of the
senior secured credit facility to fixed rates ranging from 8.7% to 8.8% at December 31, 2005. Historically, these interest-rate swaps qualified for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS 133, which required that the change in the fair value
be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in UCHC s statements of changes in partners  equity. However, in connection with the 2004 Amendment (see Note 3), these interest-rate swaps became ineffective and no longer
qualify for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS 133. Accordingly, subsequent to December 9, 2004, the change in the fair value and the amortization of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were recorded in change in fair value of
interest rate-swaps in the combined statements of         
   57   

Table of Contents  

   operations. During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003,
respectively, the fair value of these swap agreements changed by approximately $5,118,000, $11,248,000 and $22,833,000. Approximately, $10,522,000 of the change in fair value during 2004 was recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), while
$726,000 was recorded in the statement of operations. In addition, during the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, $5,401,000 and $339,000, was amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining
useful lives of the swaps from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the accompanying statement of changes in partners  equity to change in the fair value of interest rate swaps in the accompanying combined statement of operations.
During 2006, UCHC estimates that it will amortize approximately $222,000 from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These swaps expired in January 2006.      During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 27, 2003, UCDP also had other interest-rate swap agreements that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS 133. During the year
ended December 27, 2003, UCDP entered into a swap arrangement designed to convert $150,000,000 in notional amount of its fixed bond interest to a floating rate. The swap provides that UCDP receive an interest rate of 11.75% (computed on a bond
basis) in exchange for payment of six month LIBOR, plus 8.01% subject to a LIBOR interest rate collar between 3.58% and 5.25% with a floor knockout if LIBOR falls below 1.15%. The term of this swap is from December 2003 through
April 2007. During the year ended December 28, 2002, UCDP entered into a forward starting interest rate swap with a fixed interest rate of 3.63%, a $150,000,000 notional amount, and a term from January 2004 to January 2006.
During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 27, 2003, respectively, the fair value of these swap agreements changed by approximately $108,000, $2,814,000, and $1,235,000 and was recorded in the change in
fair value of interest rate swaps in other expense in the accompanying combined statements of operations.      During the year ended December 31, 2005,
UCHC entered into two interest rate swap transactions in order to provide additional hedges on its variable rate debt. The interest rate swaps begin with notional amounts of $200,000,000 and $300,000,000, respectively, with the latter swap s
notional value declining to $125,000,000 by January 15, 2008. The interest rate swaps have fixed interest rates of 4.8% and 4.4% and have effective dates of February 20, 2006 and January 15, 2006. Both swaps expire in the fourth
quarter of 2009. The swaps qualified for hedge accounting treatment in accordance with SFAS 133. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the fair value of these swap agreements changed by approximately $2,469,000 and was recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the statement of changes in partners  equity.       5. Operating Lease Obligations       UCHC has entered into various leases for equipment, office and warehouse space. The leases are noncancelable operating leases which expire at various dates through 2013.
     The following is a five-year schedule of minimum future rental payments under the noncancelable operating leases at December 31, 2005 (in thousands):
      
    During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003, respectively,
UCHC incurred rent expense under the operating leases of approximately $3,837,000, $3,804,000, and $3,913,000, which was included in the related costs and operating expenses in the accompanying combined statements of operations.       6. Capital Leases       UCHC leases certain equipment under capital
leases. At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, equipment, fixtures and furniture included approximately $1,068,000 and $1,864,000, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation expense related to assets under capital
leases amounted to approximately $796,000, $781,000, and $753,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003.         
   58   

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2005, future minimum lease payments due under capital leases are as follows (in thousands):
      
     7. Compensation Plans        Deferred Compensation Plan       UCDP has a deferred compensation plan (the  Plan ) that permits eligible executives and members of
management to defer a specified portion of their compensation. Under the plan, employees may defer up to 80% of base salary and/or up to 100% of bonus compensation. The deferred compensation, together with limited partnership matching contributions,
which vest immediately, accrue earnings based on elected investment alternatives. Employees are eligible to receive distributions at their election at retirement, at termination of their employment, at death or during specified in service periods,
or in the event of an approved unforeseeable financial emergency. At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, UCHC had accrued approximately $6,973,000 and $6,716,000 for its obligations to participating employees under the
Plan, which are included in other long-term liabilities in the accompanying combined balance sheets. To fund the Plan, UCHC purchased partnership-owned life insurance contracts. The cash surrender value of these policies was approximately $6,717,000
and $6,082,000, respectively, at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, and is included in other assets in the accompanying combined balance sheets.       Long-Term Incentive Plan       UCDP had a Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  2004 Incentive Plan ) to provide selected key employees the
opportunity to benefit from the growth in value of UCDP. Participating employees were granted appreciation rights in the 2004 Incentive Plan, which became exercisable on January 1, 2005. The value of these appreciation rights was generally
based on the growth in market value of the Partners  equity ownership interests in UCDP. UCHC accrued the estimated payout value of the 2004 Incentive Plan straight line over its term. At December 31, 2004, UCHC had approximately
$13,603,000 accrued in compensation and benefits related to the 2004 Incentive Plan. The amount accrued for at December 31, 2004 was paid in February 2005.      On September 6, 2005, the Park Advisory Board of UCDP approved a new Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  2007 Incentive Plan ) effective as of January 1, 2005. The 2007 Incentive Plan also provides key
employees the opportunity to benefit from UCDP s growth in value. Employees who are eligible to participate in the plan are limited to UCDP s Executive Committee members, UCDP s business unit heads, and other UCDP executives. Under
the plan, which is administered by the Park Advisory Board, each participant is granted one or more Value Appreciation Rights ( VARs ). The value of a VAR is generally based on the growth in market value of the equity interests of the
Partners in UCDP. A pool is established for valuing the VARs and such pool is equal to 2% of the growth in UCDP s equity value. The value of a VAR is calculated by dividing the total pool value by the total number of outstanding VARs. Each VAR
will be triggered and automatically exercisable upon the earlier of a change in UCDP s ownership structure which results in NBCU owning less than 50%, or January 1, 2008. If a change of ownership occurs, the payout value is calculated
based on the sales price of this ownership change. If January 1, 2008 is reached, the payout value is calculated based on an earnings multiple from financial results generated during 2007, subject to specific caps so that the payout value for
each participant is no more than 100% of their total compensation as of January 1, 2005. UCHC accrues the estimated payout value of the 2007 Incentive Plan straight line over its term. Under the plan, all awards are paid in cash. As of
December 31, 2005, UCHC had $2,536,000 accrued under this plan.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

    8. Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities       The major components of accounts payable and accrued liabilities are as follows (in thousands):       
     9. Related Party Transactions        Vivendi Universal Entertainment s Special Fee       Under the terms of UCDP s partnership agreement, a special
fee is payable to Vivendi Universal Entertainment through Universal CPM equal to 5% of certain revenue, as defined, generated by Universal Studios Florida and Universal s Islands of Adventure. The special fee amounted to approximately
$35,251,000, $36,631,000, and $30,620,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003. Interest expense incurred on the deferred special fee was approximately $1,593,000,
$6,107,000, and $4,914,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003.      Historically
under UCDP s senior secured credit facility and the April 2010 notes, the special fee related to both Universal Studios Florida and Universal s Islands of Adventure could only be paid upon achievement of certain but different leverage
ratios. These ratios were met during the year ended December 31, 2004. The special fee related to Universal s Islands of Adventure was also deferred until Blackstone received equity distributions from the operating profits generated from
Universal s Islands of Adventure in an aggregate amount equal to $234,700,000.      Concurrent with the 2004 Offering and the 2004 Amendment, Vivendi
Universal Entertainment and Blackstone entered into an agreement pursuant to which Blackstone acknowledged, as between the partners, that the equity distribution condition to the payment of Universal s Islands of Adventure special fees was
satisfied. Accordingly, going forward, the special fee related to Universal s Islands of Adventure can also be paid if certain leverage ratios are met. These ratios were met as of UCHC s fiscal quarter end dates in 2005. In addition,
Holdings purchased from Vivendi Universal Entertainment the right to receive from UCDP the most recently accrued $70,000,000 of deferred special fees relating to Universal s Islands of Adventure for $70,000,000. This receivable from UCDP has
been eliminated upon consolidation. Also, $50,000,000 of the next most recently accrued deferred special fees related to Universal s Islands of Adventure and Universal Studios Florida was forgiven and treated as an equity contribution by both
Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone. Pursuant to certain subordination aspects of UCDP s senior secured credit facility, the April 2010 notes or the May 2010 notes, the special fee may not be paid if there is an event of default
(or to the knowledge of UCHC s officers a default).      During the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, UCHC paid total fees of
approximately $73,551,000 and $85,657,000, respectively, to Vivendi Universal Entertainment. The amount due to Vivendi Universal Entertainment as of December 31, 2005 included $7,811,000 of fees payable to Vivendi Universal Entertainment.
Furthermore, as of December 31, 2005, UCHC no longer carried a balance related to the deferred portion of fees. At December 31, 2004, the amount due to Vivendi Universal Entertainment included approximately $10,076,000 and $7,800,000,
respectively, related to the current and deferred portion of fees payable to Vivendi Universal Entertainment. In addition, at December 31, 2004, UCHC had long-term deferred special fees payable of approximately $26,642,000 payable to Vivendi
Universal Entertainment.       Partner Distributions       UCHC
paid distributions to the Partners of $20,000,000, $455,000,000, and $10,000,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

    Other Partner Matters       In late 2004, the Partners entered into an amended and restated partners  agreement pursuant to which (a) from the date of the agreement until January 1, 2006, each of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone agree not
to sell their ownership interests in Holdings, (b) from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2007, each of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone shall be permitted to sell their ownership interest in Holdings to a third party
provided the other party be permitted to require the third party to purchase such other party s interest in Holdings at the same price as such third party is paying to Vivendi Universal Entertainment or Blackstone, as applicable, and
(c) after December 31, 2007, neither party may sell its interest in Holdings without first offering the other party the opportunity to purchase such interest at a cash price specified by the party desiring to sell its interest. If either
party makes such offer to sell to the other party after December 31, 2007, the other party shall have 90 days to accept such offer. If the other party declines the opportunity to purchase, the offering party shall market both parties 
interest in Holdings to third parties, and both parties are required to sell their interests if a third party offers a price that is at least 90% of the price for both parties  interests that is imputed from the offer made by the first party to
the second party (i.e., as long as Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone each own 50% of Holdings, then both parties are required to sell to a third party that offers at least 180% of the price quoted by either party to the other party). If
the interests in Holdings are not sold to a third party in connection with the marketing process, then the offering party shall be prohibited from making another offer to the other party for a period of one year from expiration date of the 90-day
offer period, and during such period, the other party may agree to sell its ownership interest without restriction. A transfer by Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone to the other of its interest in Holdings is not a  change of
control  for the purposes of the notes and the amended and restated credit facilities and the notes of Holdings, but the sale by Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone of both of their interests to a third party would be a  change
of control .       Reimbursement of UCDP s Manager s Costs       Vivendi Universal Entertainment provides UCHC with services relating to the management and operation of the theme parks, the costs of which are reimbursed to Vivendi Universal Entertainment under the terms of
UCDP s partnership agreement. These services include: blanket insurance coverage; creative design of new rides and attractions; procurement of merchandise; management of corporate sponsorship; shared services of a number of senior executives;
and other miscellaneous services. These costs are allocated to UCHC by Vivendi Universal Entertainment. Insurance premiums are allocated based upon relative payroll, revenues and claims experience. Creative design labor is allocated based upon time
spent on UCHC projects. Procurement of merchandise allocation involves the allocation of costs between international and domestic businesses and then among the domestic properties based upon proportionate share of retail revenues. Corporate
sponsorship expenses are allocated in proportion to the share of corporate sponsorship revenues. Corporate sponsorship revenues are allocated to the business units that benefit from the sponsorship. Labor cost for shared senior executives is
allocated based upon estimated time incurred. UCHC receives an allocation of other shared services provided based upon the relative number of transactions processed. Universal Parks   Resorts, a division of Vivendi Universal Entertainment
that administers the allocations, has indicated to UCHC that their allocation methods are reasonable. During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003, respectively, UCHC incurred approximately
$21,763,000, $27,209,000, and $36,733,000 related to these services.       Transactions with CityWalk Operations       Vivendi Universal Entertainment has an indirect interest in certain restaurants and retail outlets in CityWalk, including Hard Rock Cafe/Hard Rock Live, and had an
indirect interest in Motown, which was dissolved on December 31, 2004 (see Note 2). During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003, respectively, UCHC earned aggregate rent of
approximately $2,050,000, $3,070,000, and $2,795,000.       Advisory Services Agreements       During 2002, UCDP entered into an Advisory Services Agreement ( Services Agreement ) in which the Partners provide UCHC with advisory and consulting services in connection with the ongoing strategic and
operational oversight of UCHC s affairs in such areas as financing structures, public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and property dispositions and acquisitions. In connection with the Services Agreement, UCHC pays each
Partner $1,250,000 annually. During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 27, 2003, UCHC incurred $2,500,000 per year related to the Services Agreement. These amounts were included in other costs and
operating expenses in the accompanying combined statements of operations.       Transactions with UCF Hotel Venture       UCDP has a lease agreement with UCF Hotel Venture ( UCF HV ), an entity partially owned by Vivendi Universal   
     
   61   

Table of Contents  

   Entertainment. The lease is for the land under three hotel sites, which requires lease payments based on a percentage of
hotel revenue. UCF Hotel Venture is also required to pay UCHC an additional ground rent based on their cash available after their partners  distributions, subject to an annual cap. The year ended December 31, 2005 marked the first year
UCHC received additional rental revenue. During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 27, 2003, respectively, UCHC recorded approximately $7,680,000, $2,045,000, and $1,900,000, related to hotel land lease
revenue. These amounts are included in other operating revenues in the accompanying combined statements of operations.      Hotel guests may charge theme park
passes, food and beverage and merchandise sold at IOA, USF and certain CityWalk venues to their hotel room account by presenting their room key. UCHC then collects this revenue by billing UCF HV. In addition, UCHC provides and is partially
reimbursed for bus and boat transportation for hotel guests, maintenance of the related waterways and pedestrian walkways, and hotel marketing. During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003,
respectively, total amounts received from UCF HV were approximately $17,143,000, $17,880,000, and $16,721,000.       Transactions with Related Theme Parks
      Vivendi Universal Entertainment owns the Wet n Wild  water park in Orlando ( WNW ). UCHC participates in and manages a
ticketing program, which permits customers to visit several local amusement parks on one ticket, including IOA, USF and WNW. Revenue is then shared among the participating amusement parks. During the years ended December 31, 2005,
December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003, respectively, UCHC s share of revenue from this ticketing program was approximately $44,207,000, $40,639,000 and $31,554,000. During the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31,
2004, and December 27, 2003, respectively, WNW s share of this ticketing program was approximately $8,317,000, $7,702,000 and $5,962,000.      Vivendi Universal Entertainment provides research and development for many of UCHC s rides. These costs are allocated pro rata among the various Vivendi Universal Entertainment theme parks that are building the same ride. Under this
arrangement, UCHC collected approximately $10,926,000 from Universal Studios Japan ( USJ ), which is partially owned and operated by affiliates of Vivendi Universal Entertainment, during the year ended December 27, 2003 related to the
technology and design of The Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man  ride. In addition, during the year ended December 27, 2003, UCHC shared costs of developing Shrek 4-D          with USJ and Universal Studios Hollywood, an affiliate of Vivendi Universal Entertainment, which allowed UCHC to reduce
costs by approximately $5,000,000.       Transactions with NBCU and GE       As a result of the NBC Universal Transaction, UCHC is realizing synergies with other NBCU businesses which include cross-promotion with a variety of NBCU television and cable services, in particular advertising time
on the NBC television network and other promotions. In response, NBC television and cable services receive visual identification in UCHC s parks. During the period from the closing of the NBC Universal Transaction to December 31, 2004 and
during the year ended December 31, 2005, UCHC received advertising/promotional time from NBCU and NBCU received visual identification in UCHC s theme parks. UCHC estimates the value of both sides of this transaction during the years ended
December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 to be approximately $3,000,000 and $1,600,000, respectively.      At the suggestion of NBCU, costs were
incurred to upgrade UCHC s environmental, health, and safety equipment and procedures. In connection with these upgrades, NBCU entered into certain third-party contracts. The Partners agreed that UCHC will pay for these costs. Total costs
incurred through December 31, 2005 were approximately $4,100,000, of which approximately $2,000,000 was capitalized as property and equipment and approximately $2,100,000 was expensed within other costs and operating expenses. Of the total
costs incurred, as of December 31, 2005, UCHC owed NBCU $1,677,000 as a reimbursement for costs paid by NBCU.      UCHC leases certain trailers through a
subsidiary of GE. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the cost of these leases was approximately $190,000. The leases expire in 2008, while the minimum future lease payments under the leases totaled approximately $500,000 as of
December 31, 2005. These leases existed prior to the NBC Universal Transaction.       Transactions with Blackstone       UCHC utilizes SunGard Data Systems, Inc. ( SunGard ) for its disaster recovery services. SunGard was acquired on August 11, 2005 through a merger
transaction by Blackstone. UCHC s use of SunGard predates the merger transaction, and the transacted services are result of arms length negotiations. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the total cost of these services was
approximately $180,000.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

    Receivables from Related Parties       Receivables from related parties are comprised of amounts due from the following (in thousands):       
     10. Retirement Plan       UCDP has a defined contribution plan (the  Contribution Plan ) covering all eligible employees. Participation in the Contribution Plan is voluntary. Salaried employees of UCHC are eligible to participate upon their date of hire
or, if later, attainment of age 21. Nonexempt employees are eligible to participate in the Contribution Plan upon completion of 12 months and accumulation of 1,000 hours of service during that period and upon attaining the age
of 21. UCHC provides a discretionary matching contribution equal to 100% up to the first 3% of compensation and 50% of all participant contributions up to the next 2%. Employee and employer contributions are 100% vested immediately. Total
contributions made by UCHC under the Contribution Plan were approximately $3,698,000, $3,440,000, and $3,052,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003.       11. Commitments and Contingencies        Consulting Agreement
      UCDP has an agreement (the  Consulting Agreement ) with a consultant (the  Consultant ) under which UCDP pays a fee equal to a
percentage of UCDP s gross revenues for consulting services in connection with the attractions and certain other facilities owned by UCDP. The accompanying combined statements of operations include consulting fee expense under the Consulting
Agreement of approximately $17,833,000, $18,548,000, and $15,539,000, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and December 27, 2003.      Under the terms of the Consulting Agreement, the Consultant is also entitled to a fee based on a percentage of gross revenues of comparable projects, which are gated motion picture and/or television themed attractions
owned or operated, in whole or in part, by UCDP, or any of UCDP s partners or any of their affiliates, other than in Universal City, California. At present, the only theme park which is a comparable project under the Consulting Agreement is
Universal Studios Japan, which is partially owned and operated by an affiliate of Vivendi Universal Entertainment. USI has guaranteed UCDP s obligations under the Consulting Agreement for the benefit of the Consultant and Vivendi Universal
Entertainment has assumed USI s obligations under that guarantee. Accordingly, fees with respect to Universal Studios Japan are paid by an affiliate of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and are not paid by us. The unpaid fees were approximately
$3,737,000 and $23,903,000, respectively, as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. These amounts were paid in the following year. Vivendi Universal Entertainment has indemnified UCDP against any liability under the Consulting
Agreement related to any comparable project that is not owned or controlled by UCDP.      Although the agreement has no expiration date, starting in
June 2010, the Consultant has the right to terminate the periodic payments under the Consulting Agreement and receive instead one payment equal to the fair market value of the interest in the Orlando parks and any comparable projects. If the
parties cannot agree on the fair market value, the fair market value will be determined by binding appraisal.      On March 15, 2005, counsel for the
Consultant delivered to UCDP a report, which asserts that the Consultant is owed additional fees for the period from 1992 to 2002. On March 28, 2006, the parties agreed to a resolution in principal of all claims that could be raised in an audit
(including those specifically raised in the report), subject to execution of mutually agreed settlement documentation. Although the parties appear to have reached a resolution in principle, because a settlement agreement is not yet finalized, there
can be no assurances that this matter is resolved. The resolution is within the amount accrued for the loss contingency.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

    Litigation        Capital Claims       In the course of completion of the construction of IOA, CityWalk and related support facilities, a number of claims were
asserted by design firms, contractors, subcontractors and material suppliers for compensation not included in the final contract payouts (the Capital Claims). Such claims involved alleged extra work, alleged costs incurred due to extended project
duration, alleged acceleration and similar causes of action. The settlement of the case described below concluded the resolution of all of the material Capital Claims against UCDP.      The general contractor of Seuss Landing at Universal s Islands of Adventure (the General Contractor), filed suit in July 2000 alleging breach of contract by UCDP. The suit sought damages in excess of
$25,000,000 and foreclosure of its lien against the project. The General Contractor later voluntarily reduced its lien claim to approximately $20,650,000. UCDP denied the substantive allegations of the claim and filed a counterclaim alleging
fraudulent lien, breach of contract, breach of releases and other counts. The General Contractor later amended its complaint to add additional parties and additional claims. The parties entered into a Mutual Release and Settlement Agreement
effective June 11, 2004. UCHC paid $9,600,000 pursuant to the Settlement Agreement on June 21, 2004. The General Contractor has released the lien and the case has been dismissed. The settlement payment was within the amount accrued for the
loss contingency.       Marvel       On July 16, 2003,
Marvel Entertainment, Inc. and Marvel Characters, Inc. (collectively, Marvel) served a Demand for Arbitration for two claims. First, Marvel specifically alleged that UCDP failed to include Marvel Elements in at least 20% of its
marketing exposure during the third and fourth years subsequent to the opening of Universal s Islands of Adventure (the Marketing Claim). In the second claim, Marvel alleged that UCDP breached the license agreement with Marvel by failing to
offer Marvel the Compensation Alternative, as defined in the license agreement, and failing to honor Marvel s election of the Compensation Alternative (the Compensation Alternative Claim). Marvel was also seeking discovery of any other
financial arrangements with licensors at Universal s Islands of Adventure that might be relevant to the Compensation Alternative Claim. UCDP denied all of the material allegations by Marvel and asserted numerous affirmative defenses. After
selection of the arbitration panel, Marvel voluntarily withdrew the Marketing Claim, without prejudice. On October 29, 2004, Marvel sent a letter to the arbitration panel withdrawing the Compensation Alternative Claim and confirming the
termination of the proceeding.       Ride and Show       On
November 13, 2003, Ride   Show Engineering, Inc. filed a Complaint For Patent Infringement, Injunctive Relief and Damages (the Complaint) in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, naming USJ Co., Ltd.,
and Universal City Studios LLLP d/b/a Universal Studios Recreation Group, affiliates of UCHC, as defendants. On February 12, 2004, the Plaintiff served a First Amended Complaint (the Amended Complaint) naming the above-referenced defendants as
well as UCDP and another company, Oriental Land Co., Ltd., as additional defendants. On September 24, 2003, a similar complaint was filed in the same court against other defendants, including entities that appear to be operators of amusement
parks and amusement park rides, and designers and manufacturers of amusement park rides. The Amended Complaint alleges that the named defendants have infringed U.S. Patent No. 5,527,221 (the Patent) by operating, making, using, selling,
advertising, and/or offering for sale in the United States amusement park rides that embody or otherwise practice one or more of the claims of such Patent or by otherwise contributing to infringement or inducing others to infringe. The Amended
Complaint did not include specific allegations concerning the location or manner of alleged infringement. However, plaintiff s counsel has advised UCDP that the allegations of the Amended Complaint relate to rides located at UCDP s theme
parks. On February 3, 2006 USJ Co. Ltd. entered into a Settlement and License Agreement pursuant to which Ride   Show agreed to dismiss the California Case.      UCDP filed a motion seeking to either dismiss the action or to transfer it to the Middle District of Florida. On May 5, 2004, the United States District Court for the Central District of California granted the
Motion and dismissed, without prejudice, the case for improper venue. As a result, UCDP is no longer a party to this action. On May 21, 2004, UCDP filed a Complaint against Ride   Show Engineering, Inc. (Ride   Show) in the
U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The Complaint contains counts for declaratory relief, breach of contract, conversion, unjust enrichment, constructive trust, and fraud. Among other things, the Complaint challenges
Ride   Show s ownership of the subject Patent and the validity of the Patent. In addition, UCDP seeks a declaration by the Court that it has not infringed the Patent. UCDP also seeks damages for Ride   Show s use of the
invention that is the subject of the Patent. On July 19, 2004, Ride   Show filed a motion to dismiss         
   64   

Table of Contents  

   the Complaint and to transfer a portion of UCDP s declaratory relief count to the U.S. District Court for the
Central District of California. UCDP opposed the motion and on August 26, 2004, Ride   Show s motion was denied. On September 10, 2004 Ride   Show filed its answer and counterclaim for Patent Infringement and Breach
of Contract. On October 4, 2004 UCDP filed its answer to the counterclaim denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. On May 26, 2005, UCDP and Ride   Show participated in a court ordered
mediation, which resulted in an impasse. Ride   Show moved for summary judgment on the Patent ownership issue and UCDP moved for summary judgment on all issues. On December 19, 2005, UCDP filed a Motion to Amend its Reply to Ride  
Show s Counterclaim to include the defense of res judicata based upon the dismissals of Moog and MTS in the California case. On February 21, 2006, the Magistrate issued a Report and Recommendation denying UCDP s Motion to Amend and UCDP
filed an Objection to Report and Recommendation. On March 6, 2006, the Court issued an Order denying UCDP s Motion for Summary Judgment and set a hearing on Ride and Show s Motion for Summary Judgment, which was held on March 17, 2006. On
March 23, 2006, the Court issued a Notice setting a hearing on March 29, 2006 with respect to UCDP s Objection to Report and Recommendation. The parties have agreed to reconvene mediation in April 2006. No trial date has been set but it is
likely to take place during the second quarter of 2006. As a result of the dismissal of the California Case, USJ Co. Ltd. has terminated its Joint Defense Agreement and both USJ Co. and Universal Parks   Resorts will cease sharing costs of
defense of the Ride   Show claims in the California and Florida Cases as of February 1, 2006. It is premature to assess the likelihood of any impact that this case may have on UCHC s financial position or the results of
operations.       Other       UCHC is threatened with or involved
in various other legal actions and claims incidental to the conduct of its business. Management does not expect a material impact to its results of operations, financial position or cash flows by reason of these actions.       12. Land Sales       From time to time, UCDP sells portions of its
undeveloped land that is not required to support its long-term growth plans. In December 2005, UCDP sold 4 acres of undeveloped land. The cost basis of the land equaled $1,391,000. In connection with this sale, UCHC recorded a gain of $2,180,000
during the year ended December 31, 2005.      In May 2004, UCDP sold a small parcel of undeveloped land. The cost basis of the land equaled
$2,483,000. In connection with this sale, UCHC recorded a gain of $1,282,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004. UCHC used the proceeds from the land sale to prepay additional principal on the senior secured credit facility.      In May 2003, UCDP sold approximately 81 acres of undeveloped land. The cost basis of the land equaled approximately $13,900,000. In connection with this sale, UCHC
recorded a loss of approximately $1,400,000 during the year ended December 27, 2003. UCDP used the proceeds from the land sale to prepay additional principal on the senior secured credit facility.       13. Quarterly Data (Unaudited)       UCHC s quarterly results are
subject to seasonal variations. UCHC s quarterly financial data is as follows (in thousands):       
    The quarterly results above were impacted by the following discrete transactions:

(4)  
  The high volume period stemming from the Easter holiday occured during the first quarter in 2005 and during the second quarter in 2006.           
   65   

Table of Contents  

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure       None.       
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures        Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II
      The management of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II (collectively  Holdings ) carried out an
evaluation, with the participation of Holdings  Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of Holdings  disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based
upon that evaluation, Holdings  Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer concluded that Holdings  disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Holdings  in
the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules, regulations and forms promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, as of the end of the period covered by that report.      There was no change in Holdings  internal control over financial reporting during the
quarter ended December 31, 2005 that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Holdings  internal control over financial reporting.       UCFH I Finance, Inc. and UCFH II Finance, Inc.       The management of UCFH I Finance, Inc. and UCFH II Finance, Inc.
(collectively  Finance ) carried out an evaluation, with the participation of Finance s Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of Finance s disclosure controls and procedures as of the
end of the period covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation, Finance s Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer concluded that Finance s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by Finance in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules, regulations and forms
promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, as of the end of the period covered by that report.      There was no change in Finance s internal
control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2005 that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Finance s internal control over financial reporting.       
  Item 9B. Other Information       Not applicable.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

PART III        
  Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant        Directors and Executive Officers       Holding I and Holding II are both Florida general partnerships. Holding I is the limited partner, with approximately 23% interest, of UCDP and Holding II is the general
partner, with approximately 77% interest, of UCDP. Holding I and Holding II are both owned 50% by Universal CPM and 50% by Blackstone. Holding I has five partners, the four Blackstone entities and their respective subsidiaries, and Universal CPM.
The partnership interests in Holding I are currently owned 50% by Blackstone and 50% by Universal CPM. Holding II also has five partners which are the same five partners that are partners of Holding I. The partnership interests in Holding II are
currently owned 50% by Blackstone and 50% by Universal CPM. Under the partnership agreements of Holdings, each partnership is governed and managed by six representatives, three designated by Universal CPM and three designated by Blackstone. The
three representatives currently designated by Universal CPM are Tom Williams, Patricia Hutton and John Sprouls. The three representatives currently designated by Blackstone are Howard Lipson, Michael Chae and David Blitzer. The principal officers of
each of the issuers are John Sprouls, President/Chief Executive Officer, and Michael Short, Treasurer/Chief Financial Officer. In addition, Tom Williams serves as Chairman of each of UCFH I Finance and UCFH II Finance.      Pursuant to the terms of UCDP s partnership agreement, UCDP is governed and managed by its general partner, Holding II, through a six-member committee of
representatives of the partners of Holding II, known as the Park Advisory Board. Three members of the Park Advisory Board are designated by Blackstone and three are designated by Universal. Holding II has the exclusive right to manage and
control UCDP and may execute documents, instruments and agreements on UCDP s behalf. All actions of the Park Advisory Board must be approved by the representatives of both Blackstone and Universal CPM (except when the capital account
balance of either Blackstone or Universal CPM is half that of the other, then the partner with the greater capital account balance is entitled to exclusively govern and manage UCDP for so long as its capital account balance is twice that of the
other partner). UCDP s partnership agreement provides for Vivendi Universal Entertainment to manage the day-to-day operation of our theme parks subject to the supervision and oversight of the Park Advisory Board.      We employ most of our executive officers and employees. However, some of our executive officers and certain of our employees are employed by our manager, Vivendi
Universal Entertainment, or its affiliates and their services are provided to us on a reimbursement basis.      See   Item 13. Certain
relationships and related transactions Reimbursement of UCDP s manager s costs   for a better description of this relationship.      Set
forth below is certain information regarding the members of our Park Advisory Board, our executive officers and certain other key employees. In this report,  Universal Orlando  refers to the business conducted by UCHC.       

Name    
      
       Age       
      
     Position     
 
  Thomas L. Williams(1)  
      
  58  
      
  Universal CPM representative on UCDP s Park Advisory Board and Universal CPM representative for each of Holding I and Holding II   

John R. Sprouls(1)  
      
  47  
      
  Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Legal and Business Affairs, Universal Parks   Resorts, President/Chief Executive Officer for each of Holding I and Holding II, and Universal CPM
representative for each of Holding I and Holding II   

Patricia E. Hutton  
      
  42  
      
  Universal CPM representative on UCDP s Park Advisory Board and Universal CPM representative for each of Holding I and Holding II   

Jean Louis Bonnier (1)  
      
  43  
      
  Universal CPM representative on the audit committee for each of Holding I and Holding II and UCDP   

Bruce L. Campbell  
      
  38  
      
  Universal CPM representative on UCDP s Park Advisory Board   

Howard A. Lipson  
      
  41  
      
  Blackstone representative on UCDP s Park Advisory Board and Blackstone representative for each of Holding I and Holding II   
       
   67   

Table of Contents  

Michael S. Chae  
      
  37  
        
  Blackstone representative on UCDP s Park Advisory Board, Blackstone representative on the audit committee for each of Holding I and Holding II, and UCDP and Blackstone representative for
each of Holding I and Holding II   

David S. Blitzer  
      
  36  
        
  Blackstone representative on UCDP s Park Advisory Board and Blackstone representative for each of Holding I and Holding II   

Robert K. Gault, Jr.(1)  
      
  61  
        
  President and Chief Executive Officer, Universal Orlando   

Michael J. Short(1)  
      
  45  
        
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Universal Orlando, Treasurer/Chief Financial Officer for each of Holding I and Holding II   

Richard E. Costales  
      
  53  
        
  Senior Vice President, Park Operations, Universal Orlando   

Richard T. Florell  
      
  57  
        
  Senior Vice President and General Manager Resort Revenue Operations, Universal Orlando   

Peter C. Giacalone  
      
  54  
        
  Senior Vice President, Business Development, Universal Orlando   

Gretchen Hofmann  
      
  44  
        
  Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing, Universal Orlando   

J. Michael Hightower(1)  
      
  48  
        
  Senior Vice President, Technical Services, Universal Orlando   

James A. Timon  
      
  47  
        
  Senior Vice President, Entertainment, Universal Orlando   

Catherine A. Roth  
      
  48  
        
  Vice President of Legal Affairs, Universal Orlando   

Tracey L. Stockwell  
      
  41  
        
  Vice President Finance and Controller, Universal Orlando   

Sherry R. Emerson  
      
  36  
        
  Vice President Finance, Treasurer, Universal Orlando   

(1)  
  Employed by Vivendi Universal Entertainment or one of its affiliates.          Thomas L. Williams   has been a member of UCDP s Park Advisory Board and a Universal CPM representative for each of Holding I and Holding II since October 1999. In addition, Mr. Williams was appointed Chairman of each
of UCFH I Finance and UCFH II Finance in December 2004. Mr. Williams has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Universal Parks   Resorts, a division of Vivendi Universal Entertainment since 1999. Prior to holding that position,
Mr. Williams served as UCDP s President and Chief Operating Officer since 1990. Prior to joining Universal Orlando in 1987 he was Vice President of Hotels and Restaurants for Yosemite National Park.        John R. Sprouls   has been a Universal CPM representative and the President/Chief Executive Officer for each of Holding I and Holding II since December 2004.
In addition, Mr. Sprouls is a Universal Parks   Resorts Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Legal   Business Affairs since 2004. Since 1999, Mr. Sprouls was Universal Parks   Resorts Executive Vice
President, Chief Human Resources Officer. Prior to that, Mr. Sprouls served as Universal Parks   Resorts Senior Vice President of Administration from 1997 to 1999, and Universal Parks   Resorts Vice President of Human
Resources from 1996 to 1997. Prior to joining us in 1996, Mr. Sprouls held various Human Resource roles within The Seagram Company, Ltd., including Senior Vice President of Human Resources for the Seagram Spirits and Wine Group from 1991 to
1996.        Patricia E. Hutton   has been a member of UCDP s Park Advisory Board and a Universal CPM representative for each of Holding I and
Holding II since February 2005. During the past nineteen years, Ms. Hutton has held several positions within GE, including NBC. From 2002 to 2004, Ms. Hutton served as Chief Financial Officer of NBC and Telemundo owned and operated
stations. In May 2004, Ms. Hutton was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NBC Universal Pictures   Studios.        Jean Louis Bonnier   was appointed Senior Vice President/Chief Financial Officer of Universal Parks   Resorts Finance in December 2005. Mr. Bonnier also serves on the audit committees for each of Holding I and
Holding II and UCDP. Prior to his current position Mr. Bonnier served as Universal Parks   Resorts Vice President, Finance. Prior to joining Universal Parks   Resorts, Mr. Bonnier was Vice President of NBC Stations Division. He has
been with NBC since 1999 and various businesses within GE since 1991.        Bruce L. Campbell   was recently appointed to UCDP s Park Advisory
Board. Mr. Campbell has served as Executive Vice President, Business Development for NBC Universal since November 2005. Prior to his current appointment, Campbell served as Senior Vice President, Business Development for NBC Universal and was
responsible for sourcing and executing acquisitions and strategic investments across all divisions of the company.        Howard A. Lipson   has been
a member of UCDP s Park Advisory Board since July 2000 and a Blackstone representative for each of Holding I and Holding II since July 2000. Mr. Lipson is a Member of the Pilot Group Manager LLC, which he joined on January 1, 2006. Prior to
joining Pilot Group Manager he was a Senior Managing Director at The Blackstone Group L.P. where he worked from 1988 to December 31, 2005. He is currently serving as a member of our Park Advisory Board as a Blackstone Representative pursuant to an
agreement. He receives no salary, stock or other form of compensation received or to be received per year from Blackstone for his participation as their representative on the Park Advisory Board. Prior to joining The Blackstone Group L.P. Mr. Lipson
was a member of the Mergers   Acquisitions Group of Salomon Brothers, Inc.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

     Michael S. Chae   has been a member of UCDP s Park Advisory Board and a Blackstone representative for
each of Holding I and Holding II since September 2005. Mr. Chae also serves on the audit committees for each of Holding I and Holding II and UCDP. Mr. Chae is a Senior Managing Director in the Private Equity at The Blackstone Group L.P.,
which he joined in 1997. Before joining Blackstone, Mr. Chae worked as an Associate at the Carlyle Group, L.P. and prior to that with Dillon, Read   Co.        David S. Blitzer   has been a member of UCDP s Park Advisory Board and a Blackstone representative for each of Holding I and Holding II since October 2005. Mr. Blitzer is a Senior Managing
Director in the Private Equity group at The Blackstone Group L.P., which he joined in 1991. Mr. Blitzer has been involved in the execution of Blackstone s investments in Spirit Group, Sulo, Allied Waste, Aspen Insurance Holdings, Houghton
Mifflin, Centerplate (formerly Volume Services America), Cadillac Fairview and The Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation.        Robert K. Gault, Jr.   has
been UCDP s President and Chief Executive Officer since 2003 after serving as President and Chief Operating Officer since 2001. From 1996 to 2001, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Universal Studios Japan.
Prior to that time period, Mr. Gault served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Universal Studios Hollywood, with responsibility for the operation of both the theme park and the CityWalk entertainment complex. Prior to joining Vivendi
Universal Entertainment, Mr. Gault worked for Anheuser Busch.        Michael J. Short   has been UCDP s Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer since 2000. In 2005, he was appointed Treasurer/Chief Financial Officer of both of Holdings I and Holdings II. From 1997 to 1998 he was Vice President of Financial Planning and Analysis. From 1998 to 2000, Mr. Short served as
Vice President of Strategic Planning and Mergers and Acquisitions for The Seagram Company. From 1992 to 1997, Mr. Short held various finance positions at Seagram. Mr. Short graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1982 and earned
an MBA from Columbia University in 1991.        Richard E. Costales   has been UCDP s Senior Vice President, Park Operations since 1994. From
1991 to 1994, he served as UCDP s Vice President of Operations. Prior to 1991, Mr. Costales was UCDP s Director of Operations.        Richard T. Florell   has been UCDP s Senior Vice President and General Manager, Resort Revenue Operations since 2003. From 2000 to 2003, Mr. Florell was Senior Vice President and General Manager of CityWalk and Resort
Shared Services. From 1995 to 2000 Mr. Florell was Vice President of CityWalk. Prior to joining us in 1995, Mr. Florell was vice president of specialty entertainment centers at Walt Disney World, which included Pleasure Island,
Disney s Village Marketplace, Resort Retail Operations, Resort Entertainment and Development of Downtown Disney.        Peter C. Giacalone   has
been UCDP s Senior Vice President, Business Development, since 2004. From 1997 to 2003, Mr. Giacalone was Senior Vice President, Business Development, Universal Parks   Resorts, a division of Vivendi Universal Entertainment. From
1994 to 1996, Mr. Giacalone was UCDP s Vice President Business Administration. Prior to holding that position he served as UCDP s Director Business Administration from 1991 to 1993. Prior to holding that position, he served as
UCDP s Assistant Controller from 1987 to 1990.        Gretchen Hofmann   has been UCDP s Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing since
2003. From 2001 to 2003, Ms. Hofmann was UCDP s Senior Vice President, Marketing. From 1993 to 2001, she worked for Tricon Global Restaurants, formally known as PepsiCo in a number of capacities, in the U.S. and internationally including
vice president of marketing for the Taco Bell Corp., from 1998 to 2001. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Ms. Hofmann served in a variety of capacities for BBDO New York, ultimately serving as Vice President Account Supervisor for the Polaroid and
Pizza Hut accounts.        J. Michael Hightower   has been UCDP s Senior Vice President, Technical Services since 2004 and was UCDP s
Director of Projects from 1995 to 1998 and from 1998 until 2000 he served as Vice President of Attraction Development for Universal s Islands of Adventure. From 2002 to 2004, Mr. Hightower was Vice President of Project Management for
Universal Creative, a division of Vivendi Universal Entertainment. From 2000 to 2002, Mr. Hightower served as Vice President of Attraction Management for Universal Studios Recreation Japan Planning.        James A. Timon   has been UCDP s Senior Vice President, Entertainment since 2004. Since 2003, Mr. Timon was UCDP s Vice President of
Entertainment after providing consulting services to us since 2002. From 1996 to 2002, he served as President of Renaissance Entertainment. Prior to joining Renaissance Entertainment, Mr. Timon was Vice President of Entertainment for Universal
Studios Hollywood, another theme park owned by Vivendi Universal Entertainment.         
   69   

Table of Contents  

     Catherine A. Roth   has been UCDP s Vice President of Legal Affairs since February 2001. From 1990
until 1992, she served as UCDP s Senior Attorney, from 1992 until 2000 as UCDP s Director, Legal and Business Affairs and from 2000 to 2001 as Senior Director, Legal and Business Affairs. Prior to holding those positions, she worked for
Merhson, Sawyer, Johnston, Dunwody   Cole and Finley, Kumble, Wagner, Heine, Underberg, Manley and Casey in Miami, Florida. Ms. Roth received her J.D. from the University of Miami.        Tracey L. Stockwell   has been UCDP s Vice President of Finance and Controller since 2000. From 1999 to 2000, she served as UCDP s Senior Director
of Finance. From 1997 to 1999, she was UCDP s Director of Finance. Prior to that position Ms. Stockwell was a senior manager for Price Waterhouse in Orlando. Ms. Stockwell received a B.Com from the University of Windsor, Ontario and
is a licensed Certified Public Accountant in Florida.        Sherry R. Emerson   has recently been promoted to UCDP s Vice President of
Finance and Treasurer. From 1996 to 2005, Ms. Emerson held two positions with the company, UCDP s Assistant Treasurer/Director of Capital and Director of Internal Audit. Prior to joining us, Ms. Emerson was a
Senior Auditor at Franklin Templeton Mutual Funds and Deloitte   Touche LLP. Ms. Emerson received a B.B.A. in accounting from Baylor University and is a Certified Public Accountant in Florida.       Audit Committee       Our audit committee and the audit committee of UCDP
are comprised of the same two members. Each of Blackstone and Vivendi Universal Entertainment, who together hold 100% of our equity interests (each holding a 50% interest), has appointed one member. Blackstone has appointed Michael S. Chae and
Vivendi Universal Entertainment has appointed Jean Louis Bonnier. Mr. Chae has been a member since October 2005, while Mr. Bonnier was appointed in February 2005.      We do not have any securities listed on a national securities exchange and are not a listed issuer. Accordingly, the rules pertaining to audit committees and the rules pertaining to the designation of an audit
committee financial expert which apply to listed issuers do not apply to us. As a result, we have not designated an audit committee financial expert nor do we have an audit committee which complies with the rules which apply to listed issuers.
      Changes in Directors and Executives       Effective
January 17, 2006, Deborah M. Reif resigned her position on UCDP s Park Advisory Board. Effective February 9, 2006, Mrs. Reif was replaced by Bruce L. Campbell.      Effective October 3, 2005, Jon M. Barnwell resigned as a partnership and audit committee representative of UCDP, Holding I and Holding II. As partnership representative, Mr. Barnwell was replaced with David
S. Blitzer. As audit committee representative, Mr. Barnwell was replaced by Michael S. Chae.      Effective September 13, 2005, David A. Stonehill
resigned as a partnership representative of Holding I and Holding II and UCDP s Park Advisory Board. Mr. Stonehill was replaced by Michael S. Chae.      On February 3, 2005, Michael E. Corcoran resigned from UCDP s Park Advisory Board and audit committee. Mr. Corcoran was replaced by Patricia Hutton on UCDP s Park Advisory Board and Jean Louis Bonnier on UCDP s
audit committee.       Code of Ethics       We have adopted a
Code of Conduct applicable to our Senior Financial Officers, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer or controller. A copy of the Code of Conduct is available upon written request, and
is filed as part of this Report as Exhibit 14.1. In addition, our principal executive officer, and principal financial officer are subject to a Code of Conduct applicable to GE employees, which is also attached as Exhibit 14.2.   
   
  Item 11. Executive Compensation        Summary compensation table       The following table sets forth the compensation during the last three fiscal years awarded to, earned by or paid to our Chief         
   70   

Table of Contents  

   Executive Officer and each of our five other most highly compensated executive officers as of December 31, 2005
collectively the  named executive officers . Compensation for each of the individuals below is approved by the representatives of Holding I and Holding II.       

(1)  
  Represents bonus earned in 2005, 2004, and 2003. Annual Incentive Plan awards are based on operating performance as measured by EBITDA and cash flow (see  Annual Incentive
Plan ).     

(2)  
  Amounts totaling the lesser of either $50,000 and 10% of the total of the annual salary and bonus reported for the named executive officer have been omitted.

(4)  
  The amounts shown in this column for fiscal 2005 include the following:         

(i)  
  General Electric Company ( GE ) matches contributions made by employees under the GE Savings   Security Program. In 2005 the cost of these contributions was
$7,350 in the case of Mr. Sprouls, $7,350 in the case of Mr. Gault, $7,350 in the case of Mr. Short and $7,350 in the case of Mr. Hightower.           
   71   

Table of Contents  

(ii)  
  We match contributions made by employees under the Universal Orlando 401(k) Plan. In 2005 the cost of these contributions was $8,575 in the case of Ms. Hofmann and $8,500 in
the case of Mr. Florell.         

(iii)  
  We match contributions made by employees under our deferred compensation plan. In 2005 the cost of these contributions was $11,397 in the case of Ms. Hofmann and $6,221 in the
case of Mr. Florell. We also maintain a program of life and disability insurance generally available to all salaried employees on the same basis.        The amounts shown in this column for fiscal 2004 include the following:       

(i)  
  Prior to May 11, 2004 Vivendi Universal maintained a pension plan for employees of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and certain other U.S. subsidiaries. The pension plan applied
annual contribution credits as a percent of pay and annual fixed interest rate credits to participants  account balances. In 2004 the cost of these contributions was $9,795 in the case of Mr. Sprouls, $21,376 in the case of Mr. Gault,
$11,713 in the case of Mr. Short and $7,466 in the case of Mr. Hightower. In connection with the Universal Transactions, on May 11, 2004 General Electric assumed responsibility for certain compensation matters. Accordingly, as of
May 11, 2004 General Electric has maintained a pension plan for employees of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and certain other U.S. subsidiaries. Please refer to the section entitled  Retirement benefits  for further details.

(ii)  
  Prior to May 11, 2004, Vivendi Universal maintained an executive supplemental pension plan to provide additional payments on an unfunded basis to certain managers and
executives. In 2004 the cost of these contributions was $3,557 in the case of Mr. Sprouls, $25,350 in the case of Mr. Gault, $5,051 in the case of Mr. Short and $5,200 in the case of Mr. Hightower. This has been discontinued following
the NBC Universal Transaction.         

(iii)  
  Prior to May 11, 2004 Vivendi Universal also matched contributions made by employees under the Vivendi Universal 401(k) Plan. In 2004 the cost of these contributions was $3,690
in the case of Mr. Sprouls, $3,717 in the case of Mr. Gault, $7,380 in the case of Mr. Short and $4,428 in the case of Mr. Hightower. In connection with the Universal Transactions, on May 11, 2004 General Electric assumed
responsibility for certain compensation matters. Accordingly, as of May 11, 2004 General Electric has matched contribution made by employees under the GE Savings   Security Program.         

(iv)  
  We match contributions made by employees under the Universal Orlando 401(k) Plan. In 2004 the cost of these contributions was $8,200 in the case of Ms. Hofmann and $8,200 in
the case of Mr. Florell.         

(v)  
  We match contributions made by employees under our deferred compensation plan. In 2004 the cost of these contributions was $9,022 in the case of Ms. Hofmann. We also maintain a
program of life and disability insurance generally available to all salaried employees on the same basis.        The amounts shown
in this column for fiscal 2003 include the following:       

(i)  
  Prior to May 11, 2004 Vivendi Universal maintained a pension plan for employees of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and certain other U.S. subsidiaries. The pension plan applied
annual contribution credits as a percent of pay and annual fixed interest rate credits to participants  account balances. In 2003 the cost of these contributions was $9,521 in the case of Mr. Sprouls, $20,780 in the case of Mr. Gault,
$11,390 in the case of Mr. Short and $3,111 in the case of Mr. Hightower.         

(ii)  
  Prior to May 11, 2004 Vivendi Universal maintained an executive supplemental pension plan to provide additional payments on an unfunded basis to certain managers and
executives. In 2003 the cost of these contributions was $6,748 in the case of Mr. Sprouls, $26,000 in the case of Mr. Gault, $14,000 in the case of Mr. Short, and $2,166 in the case of Mr.Hightower.         
       
   72   

Table of Contents  

(iv)  
  We match contributions made by employees under our deferred compensation plan. In 2003 the cost of these contributions for Ms. Hofmann was $6,188. We also maintain a program of
life and disability insurance generally available to all salaried employees on the same basis.         

(v)  
  We match contributions made by employees under the Universal Orlando 401(k) Plan. In 2003 the cost of these contributions was $8,000 in the case of Ms. Hoffman and $8,000 in
the case of Mr. Florell.         

(5)  
  As a result of the NBC Universal Transaction, Vivendi Universal Entertainment ceased to be a participant in the Vivendi Universal 401(k) Plan, the Vivendi Universal Retirement
Account Plan, the Vivendi Universal Supplemental Retirement Account Plan and the Universal Studios, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. Set out below is a summary of the changes resulting from Vivendi Universal Entertainment ceasing to
be a participant following the NBC Universal Transaction:         

(i)  
  The participants in the Vivendi Universal 401(k) Plan as of May 11, 2004 became 100% vested in such plan. As a result, participants were eligible to take a distribution from
the plan. If their account balance was greater than $5,000, they could leave their monies in the plan until no later than age 70   1   /  2  .          

(ii)  
  Members of the Vivendi Universal Retirement Account Plan as of May 11, 2004 became 100% vested in such plan. Members were eligible to take a distribution from the plan or if
their account balance was greater than $5,000, they could leave their monies in the plan until no later than age 65.         

(iii)  
  Members of the Vivendi Universal Supplemental Retirement Account Plan as of May 11, 2004 became 100% vested in the plan. Distributions from the plan began in August 2004
and continue to be distributed unless a member s account balance is greater than $25,000 and an election is on file to defer their distribution to a later date.         

(iv)  
  Prior to the establishment of the Vivendi Universal Supplemental Retirement Account Plan the Universal Studios, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan was maintained to
provide additional payments on an unfunded basis to certain managers and executives. As of May 11, 2004, participants in the Universal Studios, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan had a status change to terminated. Distributions
based on their election on file were processed following a valuation on June 30, 2004.        The effect of the foregoing on
each named executive officer and such named executive officer s response is described below.       
       
   73   

Table of Contents  

(6)  
  During 2005, 2004, and 2003, Mr. Sprouls, Mr. Gault, Mr. Short and Mr. Hightower were employees of Vivendi Universal Entertainment, and we reimburse Vivendi
Universal Entertainment or its affiliates for the pro rata cost of their employment compensation based on the time they spend working on UCDP matters.        In 2005, we reimbursed Vivendi Universal Entertainment or its affiliates for 100% of the cost of Mr. Gault s, Mr. Short s and Mr. Hightower s employment compensation, and 50% of the cost
of Mr. Sprouls  employment compensation. Amounts set forth in the above table represent amounts we reimbursed Vivendi Universal Entertainment or its affiliates with respect to the applicable executive officer.      In 2004, we reimbursed Vivendi Universal Entertainment or its affiliates for 100% of the cost of Mr. Gault s and Mr. Short s
employment compensation, 50% of the cost of Mr. Sprouls  employment compensation and 60% of the cost of Mr. Hightower s employment compensation. Amounts set forth in the above table represent amounts we reimbursed Vivendi
Universal Entertainment or its affiliates with respect to the applicable executive officer      In 2003, we reimbursed Vivendi Universal
Entertainment or its affiliates for 100% of the cost of Mr. Gault s and Mr. Short s employment compensation, 50% of the cost of Mr. Sprouls  employment compensation and 25% of the cost of Mr. Hightower s
employment compensation. Amounts set forth in the above table represent amounts we reimbursed Vivendi Universal Entertainment or its affiliates with respect to the applicable executive officer.       Retirement benefits       Mr. Sprouls, Mr. Gault, Mr. Short and Mr.
Hightower participate in GE s pension plan (the  GE Pension Plan ). Under this plan, employees are generally eligible to retire with unreduced benefits at age 60 or later, and with Social Security benefits at age 62 or later. The
approximate annual retirement benefits provided under the GE Pension Plan for employees in higher salary classifications retiring at age 62 or later are shown in the table below.      Amounts shown as  earnings credited for retirement benefits  in this table represent the average annual covered compensation paid for the highest 36 consecutive months out of the last 120 months prior to
retirement. For 2005, covered compensation for Mr. Sprouls, Mr. Gault and Mr. Short is the same as the total of their salary and bonus amounts shown in  Summary compensation table  above. As of March 30, 2006, these executive officers had 22.5
months of service under the plan. The approximate annual retirement benefits provided under the retirement plans are computed on a straight-life annuity basis and are payable in fixed monthly payments for life, with a guaranteed minimum term of five
years.       
    Note: The amounts shown above are applicable to employees retiring in 2006 at age 62 and assumes employee was
first eligible to participate in the GE Pension Plan before January 1, 2005.       Employment agreements       Mr. Robert K. Gault, Jr., Mr. John R. Sprouls, Mr. Michael J. Short and Mr. J. Michael Hightower are parties to employment agreements with
Universal Studios, Inc., which have been assumed by Vivendi Universal Entertainment, and Mr. Richard Florell and Ms. Gretchen Hofmann are each a party to an employment agreement with UCDP. The following summaries of the material
provisions of the employment agreements do not purport to be complete and are subject to, and qualified in their entirety by reference to, all provisions of each described agreement.       Robert K. Gault, Jr.       Universal Studios, Inc. has an employment agreement with Mr. Gault, which has been
assumed by Vivendi Universal Entertainment, pursuant to which he serves as President and Chief Executive Officer, UCDP. The term of the agreement continues through April 30, 2008, and if Universal Studios, Inc. continues
Mr. Gault s employment beyond the expiration of the term without having entered into a new contract, such employment will be  at will.  Under the agreement, Mr. Gault receives a base annual salary and is eligible to
participate in UCDP s Long-Term Incentive Plan and other benefit plans that are generally available to employees of Universal Studios, Inc. In the event of termination for cause or in the case of death, Mr. Gault or his estate would
be entitled to receive a payment of accrued but unpaid base salary due to him through the termination date or the         
   74   

Table of Contents  

   date of death, as well as other unpaid amounts due to him under company benefit plans or programs. In the event of
involuntary termination (or termination without cause), Mr. Gault is entitled to receive his base salary and benefits, with the exception of certain specified types of plans, through the expiration of the term of the agreement, so long as he
continues to adhere to the covenants in his employment agreement, which include not to disclose confidential or proprietary information, not to become engaged with a competitive business and not to induce Universal Studios, Inc. s
employees, consultants or representatives to leave their employment or to work for competitors.       John R. Sprouls       Universal Studios, Inc. has an employment agreement with Mr. Sprouls, which has been assumed by Vivendi Universal Entertainment pursuant to which he serves as
Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Legal   Business Affairs for Universal Parks   Resorts. Mr. Sprouls also serves as President/Chief Executive Officer of each of the issuers. The term of the agreement continues
through December 6, 2006, and if Universal Studios, Inc. continues Mr. Sprouls  employment beyond the expiration of the term without having entered into a new contract, such employment will be  at will.  Under the agreement,
Mr. Sprouls receives a base annual salary and is eligible to participate in UCDP s Long-Term Incentive Plan, annual incentive plan, and other benefit plans that are generally available to employees of Universal Studios, Inc. In the event
of termination for cause or in the case of death, Mr. Sprouls or his estate would be entitled to receive a payment of accrued but unpaid base salary due to him through the termination date or the date of death, as well as other unpaid amounts
due to him under company benefit plans or programs. In the event of involuntary termination (or termination without cause), Mr. Sprouls is entitled to receive his base salary and benefits, with the exception of certain specified types of plans,
through the expiration of the term of the agreement, so long as he continues to adhere to the covenants in his employment agreement, which include not to disclose confidential or proprietary information, not to become engaged with a competitive
business and not to induce Universal Studios, Inc. s employees, consultants or representatives to leave their employment or to work for competitors.       Michael J. Short       Mr. Short has an employment agreement with Universal Studios, Inc. which has been assumed by Vivendi Universal
Entertainment, that continues through August 31, 2007. Under the agreement, Mr. Short serves as UCDP s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Additionally, Mr. Short serves as Treasurer/Chief Financial Officer of
UCHC. In addition to receiving a base salary, Mr. Short is eligible to participate in UCDP s Long-Term Incentive Plan, UCDP s annual incentive plan, and other benefit plans that are generally available to employees of Universal
Studios, Inc. In the event of termination for cause, Mr. Short receives accrued but unpaid base salary due through the termination date and other unpaid amounts due under benefit plans or programs. In the event of involuntary termination,
Mr. Short s base salary and benefits (with the exception of certain specified types of plans) will continue through the expiration of the term of the agreement, provided that he continues to adhere to certain provisions under the agreement
including the confidentiality, non-compete and non-solicitation covenants. If there is a termination due to death or disability, in addition to receiving his accrued but unpaid salary and benefits for the periods set forth in the agreement,
Mr. Short would also be entitled to a pro rata portion of his bonus for the year of termination.       Gretchen Hofmann       UCDP has an employment agreement with Ms. Hofmann for her services as Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing. We previously exercised the first option to extend
this agreement through March 18, 2005, and on December 1, 2004, we exercised our second option for extending this agreement commencing March 19, 2005 and continuing through March 18, 2007. Under the employment agreement,
Ms. Hofmann may be terminated  for cause,  which includes a material failure to perform her duties or failure to comply with UCDP s policies, or in the event she has suffered a permanent and total disability preventing her from
performing her duties. Ms. Hofmann is eligible to receive a target incentive bonus of 30% of base salary. Ms. Hofmann s benefits also include participation in UCDP s Long-Term Incentive Plan and UCDP s 401(k) plan. Pursuant
to the employment agreement, Ms. Hofmann is subject to a standard employee confidentiality and non-disclosure agreement.       J. Michael Hightower
      Mr. Hightower is currently serving as the Senior Vice President of Technical Services for UCDP. Mr. Hightower has an employment agreement
with Universal Studios, Inc., which has been assumed by Vivendi Universal Entertainment, continuing until August 27, 2007. Under the employment agreement, Mr. Hightower may be terminated  for cause,  which includes a material
failure to perform his duties or failure to comply with UCDP s policies, or in the event he has suffered a permanent and total disability         
   75   

Table of Contents  

   preventing him from performing his duties. Mr. Hightower is eligible to receive a target incentive bonus of 30% of
base salary. Mr. Hightower s benefits also include participation in UCDP s Long-Term Incentive Plan and UCDP s 401(k) plan. Pursuant to the employment agreement, Mr. Hightower is subject to a standard employee
confidentiality and non-disclosure agreement.       Richard T. Florell       Mr. Florell is currently serving as Senior Vice President/General Manager of Resort Revenue Operations for UCDP. Mr. Florell has an employment agreement in force with UCDP that became effective on
December 4, 2002. The initial duration of the agreement was set forth at three years (December 4, 2005) and has since been extended until December 3, 2007. Under the employment agreement, Mr. Florell may be terminated  for
cause,  which includes a material failure to perform his duties or failure to comply with UCDP s policies, or in the event he has suffered a permanent and total disability preventing his from performing her duties. Mr. Florell is
eligible to receive a target incentive bonus of 30% of base salary. Mr. Florell s benefits also include participation in UCDP s Long-Term Incentive Plan and UCDP s 401(k) plan. Pursuant to the employment agreement,
Mr. Florell is subject to a standard employee confidentiality and non-disclosure agreement.       2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan       UCDP s Long-Term Incentive Plan provided key employees the opportunity to benefit from UCDP s growth in value. Employees who were eligible to participate in the
plan were limited to UCDP s Executive Committee members, UCDP s business unit heads and a select group of UCDP s Universal Parks   Resorts senior executives. Under the plan, which was administered by UCDP s Park Advisory
Board, each participant was granted one or more Value Appreciation Rights ( VARs ) that became exercisable and payable on January 1, 2005. The value of a VAR was generally based on the growth in market value of the equity interests of
the ownership partners (Blackstone and Vivendi Universal Entertainment) in UCDP. A pool was established for valuing the VARs and such pool was equal to 2% of the growth in UCDP s equity value. The value of a VAR was calculated by dividing the
total pool value by the total number of outstanding VARs. Under the plan, all awards were paid in cash. If a participant ceased to be employed by reason of retirement, disability, death or termination (other than for cause), any VARs earned
continued under the plan and were pro-rated. Where there was a termination (other than for cause), the participant was not allowed to receive payout under the plan if that party had not been an active participant in the plan for at least six months.
If a person ceased to be employed by UCDP or Universal Parks   Resorts for reasons other than retirement, disability, death or termination (other than for cause), any rights under the plan and all VARs granted were canceled. The Long-Term
Incentive Plan was paid out in February 2005.       2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan       On September 6, 2005, the Park Advisory Board of UCDP approved the Long-Term Growth Plan effective as of January 1, 2005. The Long-Term Growth Plan provides key employees the opportunity to benefit from
UCDP s growth in value. Employees who are eligible to participate in the plan are limited to UCDP s Executive Committee members, UCDP s business unit heads, and a select group of Universal Parks   Resorts and other UCDP
executives. Under the plan, which is administered by the Park Advisory Board, each participant is granted one or more VARs. The value of a VAR is generally based on the growth in market value of the equity interests of the ownership partners
(Blackstone Capital Partners and NBC Universal, Inc.) in UCDP. A pool is established for valuing the VARs and such pool is equal to 2% of the growth in UCDP s equity value. The value of a VAR is calculated by dividing the total pool value by
the total number of outstanding VARs. Each VAR will be triggered and automatically exercisable upon the earlier of a change in UCDP s ownership structure which results in NBC Universal, Inc. owning less than 50%, or January 1, 2008. If a
change of ownership occurs, the payout value is calculated based on the sales price of this ownership change. If January 1, 2008 is reached, the payout value is calculated based on an earnings multiple from financial results generated during
2007, subject to specific caps so that the payout value for each participant is no more than 100% of their total compensation as of January 1, 2005. Under the plan, all awards are paid in cash. If a participant ceases to be employed by reason
of retirement, disability, death or termination (other than for cause), any VARs earned continue under the plan and are pro-rated. Where there is a termination (other than for cause), the participant is not allowed to receive payout under the plan
if that party had not been an active participant in the plan for at least nine months. If a person ceases to be employed for reasons other than retirement, disability, death or termination (other than for cause), any rights under the plan and all
VARs granted are canceled.       Annual Incentive Plan       Our
Annual Incentive Plan provides our executive team the opportunity to benefit from our business performance in conjunction         
   76   

Table of Contents  

   with their level of personal performance. Currently, employees who are eligible to participate in the plan are limited to
our executive employees at a Director level or above who do not participate in a Sales Incentive Plan. Under the plan, which is administered by our Compensation department, each participant has a bonus target generally based on their level in the
organization. Each year participants and their managers create individual objectives which support the overall operating plan. At the conclusion of the fiscal year the individual objectives are evaluated and an overall personal performance
percentage is assigned to them. Concurrently, company performance is determined by operating performance of UCDP. Payout is then based on the target multiplied by personal performance multiplied by company performance. If a participant ceases to be
employed by reason of retirement, disability, death or termination (other than for cause) they will participate in the plan on a pro-rata basis. If a person ceases to be employed by us or Vivendi Universal Entertainment for reasons other than
retirement, disability, death or termination (other than for cause) prior to plan payout their participation in the plan is terminated and no plan payments are made.       
  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters       Not applicable.       
  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions        Vivendi Universal Entertainment s special fee
      Under UCDP s partnership agreement, a  special fee  is payable to Vivendi Universal Entertainment through Universal CPM. The special fee
is calculated at 5% of certain gross operating revenues, as defined in UCDP s partnership agreement, generated from each of Universal Studios Florida and Universal s Islands of Adventure. For 2003, 2004 and 2005, the special fee payable
was $30.6 million, $36.6 million, and $35.3 million, respectively. For 2003, 2004 and 2005, the interest incurred on the deferred special fee payable to an affiliate of Vivendi Universal Entertainment was $4.9 million,
$6.1 million, and $1.6 million, respectively.      Under UCDP s senior secured credit facility and the April 2010 notes, the special fee related
to both Universal Studios Florida and Universal s Islands of Adventure can only be paid upon achievement of certain but different leverage ratios. These ratios were met as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005. Historically, the
special fee related to Universal s Islands of Adventure was also deferred until Blackstone received equity distributions from the operating profits generated from Universal s Islands of Adventure in an aggregate amount equal to
$234.7 million. Concurrent with the 2004 Offering and the 2004 Amendment, Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone entered into an agreement pursuant to which Blackstone acknowledged, as between the partners, that the equity distribution
condition to the payment of Universal s Islands of Adventure special fees was satisfied. Accordingly, going forward, the special fee related to Universal s Islands of Adventure can be paid when certain leverage ratios are met. During
December 2004, Holdings used $70.0 million of the proceeds from the issuance of the May 2010 bonds to purchase from Vivendi Universal Entertainment its right to receive from UCDP the most recently accrued $70.0 million of deferred special
fees relating to Universal s Islands of Adventure. As our financial statements consolidate UCDP, this receivable has been eliminated. Also during December 2004, $50.0 million of the next most recently accrued deferred special fees relating
to Universal s Islands of Adventure and Universal Studios Florida were forgiven and treated as an equity contribution by both Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone. Pursuant to certain subordination agreements, the special fee may not
be paid if there is an event of default (or to the knowledge of our officers a default) under UCDP s credit agreements, the April 2010 notes or the May 2010 notes.      During 2004 and 2005, we paid total fees of $85.6 million and $73.6 million, respectively, to Vivendi Universal Entertainment. At December 31, 2004, the amount due to Vivendi Universal Entertainment included
$10.1 million and $7.8 million, respectively, related to the current and deferred portion of the special fees payable. Additionally, at December 31, 2004, we had long-term deferred special fees payable to Vivendi Universal
Entertainment of $26.6 million. During 2005, we paid all deferred special fees payable to Vivendi Universal Entertainment and thus as of December 31, 2005 the amount due to Vivendi Universal Entertainment included $7.8 million of special
fees payable which was exclusively comprised of the current portion.       Partner distributions       In 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, we paid an aggregate of $10.0 million, $455.0 million and $20.0 million in distributions to our partners.         
   77   

Table of Contents  

    Other Partner Matters       In late 2004, our partners entered into an amended and restated partners  agreement pursuant to which (a) from the date of the agreement until January 1, 2006, each of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone agree not
to sell their ownership interests in us, (b) from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2007, each of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone shall be permitted to sell their ownership interest in us to a third party provided the
other party be permitted to require the third party to purchase such other party s interest in us at the same price as such third party is paying to Vivendi Universal Entertainment or Blackstone, as applicable, and (c) after
December 31, 2007, neither party may sell its interest in us without first offering the other party the opportunity to purchase such interest at a cash price specified by the party desiring to sell its interest. If either party makes such offer
to sell to the other party after December 31, 2007, the other party shall have 90 days to accept such offer. If the other party declines the opportunity to purchase, the offering party shall market both parties  interest in us to
third parties, and both parties are required to sell their interests if a third party offers a price that is at least 90% of the price for both parties  interests that is imputed from the offer made by the first party to the second party (i.e.,
as long as Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone each own 50% of us, then both parties are required to sell to a third party that offers at least 180% of the price quoted by either party to the other party). If the interests in us are not
sold to a third party in connection with the marketing process, then the offering party shall be prohibited from making another offer to the other party for a period of one year from expiration date of the 90-day offer period, and during such
period, the other party may agree to sell its ownership interest without restriction. A transfer by Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone to the other of its interest in us is not a  change of control  for the purposes of the May
2010 notes and UCDP s amended and restated credit facilities and the April 2010, but the sale by Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone of both of their interests to a third party would be a  change of control .       Reimbursement of UCDP s manager s costs       Our manager,
Vivendi Universal Entertainment, provides us with goods and services relating to the management and operation of our theme parks, the costs of which are reimbursed to Vivendi Universal Entertainment under the terms of our partnership agreement. In
2003, 2004 and 2005, the total amount of costs we incurred for goods and services relating to the management and operation of our theme parks under the terms of our partnership agreement was $36.7 million, $27.2 million, and
$21.8 million, respectively. Goods and services provided by Vivendi Universal Entertainment include:       

Insurance affiliates of our manager, Vivendi Universal, S.A. prior to May 11, 2004 and GE through NBC Universal subsequent to May 11, 2004, arrange multi-layered
insurance coverage for our operations. We believe these insurance programs generally provide broader coverage at lower annual premiums than we could purchase on a standalone basis. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, the cost of insurance coverage allocated to
us was $13.7 million, $11.6 million, and $8.6 million, respectively.         

Creative Services Universal Parks   Resort s creative group designs new rides and attractions for all theme parks owned or operated by Vivendi Universal
Entertainment. Costs for the creative group, which includes salaries, benefits and direct costs incurred on our behalf, are allocated to the theme parks based on actual time spent and therefore can vary from year to year. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, the
costs of the creative group allocated to us were $7.0 million, $4.6 million, and $3.3 million, respectively.         

Merchandise Vivendi Universal Entertainment manages the design and procurement of merchandise for all theme parks it owns or operates to leverage purchasing power and supplier
relationships and efficiencies. Vivendi Universal Entertainment allocates the cost of the merchandise management to the theme parks based upon relative merchandise revenues. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, the costs of merchandise management allocated to us
were $3.4 million, $2.5 million, and $2.2 million, respectively. In addition, we purchase merchandise directly from an affiliate of Vivendi Universal Entertainment from time to time based upon specific needs. In 2003, 2004 and 2005,
these purchases amounted to $0.8 million, $0.3 million, and $0.1 million, respectively.         

Shared Executive Salaries a number of our senior executives are employees of Vivendi Universal Entertainment or its affiliates. Vivendi Universal Entertainment allocates the
full cost of the amount of time dedicated to our activities by each employee. In 2003, 2004 and 2005 the total amount of these costs allocated to us was $4.3 million, $3.7 million, and $2.1 million, respectively.

General Overhead We also reimburse Vivendi Universal Entertainment for certain other costs it incurs in providing corporate support services for managing our theme parks. These
costs relate to finance and legal services, international marketing, information systems and overhead. In addition, Vivendi Universal Entertainment and its affiliates enter into sponsorship agreements with various corporate partners that benefit the
theme parks it owns or operates. Revenues and expenses are equitably allocated to the theme parks by Vivendi Universal Entertainment. In 2003, 2004, and 2005, the total amount of these costs allocated to us was $7.5 million, $4.4 million,
and $5.5 million, respectively.           
   78   

Table of Contents  

    Transactions with certain CityWalk operations       Vivendi Universal Entertainment has an indirect interest in certain of the restaurants and retail outlets in CityWalk.      Vivendi Universal Entertainment, through a subsidiary, owns several retail stores, including Dapy, Glow and the Universal Studios Store, that lease space in CityWalk
from us under customary and market lease agreements. In January 2006, Glow ceased operations at CityWalk. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, the total rent earned by us for these stores was $0.7 million, $0.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively. During
September 2005, rent and the management fees at the Dapy and Glow locations were suspended. Pursuant to management agreements, we have been managing the Universal Studios Store since 2002, and in 2003 began managing both Dapy and Glow. We are paid a
management fee of 5% of the gross sales generated at each store. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, the management fee earned by us was $0.2 million per year.      Vivendi Universal Entertainment indirectly owns 50% of the Hard Rock Cafe/Hard Rock Live venue located in CityWalk and pays us rent of 2.5% of revenue in addition to reimbursing us for certain common area expenses. In 2003, 2004 and 2005,
the total amount paid to us was $1.2 million, $1.3 million and $1.4 million, respectively.      Formerly, Vivendi Universal Entertainment
indirectly owned 80% and we owned the remaining 20% of Motown Cafe Orlando L.P., LLLP ( Motown ), which owns a restaurant in CityWalk. Motown leased space in CityWalk from us under a customary and market lease agreement. In 2003 and 2004,
the total rent earned by us was $0.9 million and $1.0 million, respectively. We also operated and managed the Motown for which we were paid a management fee of 5% of restaurant revenues. In 2003 and 2004, the total management fees earned by us was
$0.2 million per year. In addition, we incurred various costs on behalf of Motown including payroll, property taxes, food purchases and are reimbursed for those costs. In 2003 and 2004, the total amounts incurred from Motown for these expenses were
$2.5 million and $2.8 million, respectively. On December 31, 2004, Motown was dissolved, and the lease in CityWalk with Motown was terminated. In return, ownership of the leasehold improvements was transferred from Motown to us. As of
January 1, 2005, the restaurant ceased to be operated as a Motown Cafe.       Advisory services agreement       In July 2002, UCDP entered into an Advisory Services Agreement with Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone. Under the terms of the Advisory Services
Agreement, each of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone has agreed to provide us with advisory and consulting services in connection with the ongoing strategic and operational oversight of our affairs in such areas as financing structures,
public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and property dispositions and acquisitions. Vivendi Universal Entertainment and Blackstone will each receive an annual advisory fee of $1.25 million. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, we incurred
$2.5 million for the advisory fee.       Transactions with UCF Hotel Venture       Vivendi Universal Entertainment indirectly owns 25% of UCF Hotel Venture, which owns the three hotels at Universal Orlando Resort. We have a separate long-term ground lease relating to each hotel with UCF Hotel
Venture. Under the leases, UCF Hotel Venture pays us rent based upon 1% of gross hotel revenues. In 2003, 2004, and 2005, the rent earned by us under the leases was $1.9 million, $2.0 million, and $7.7 million, respectively. The
increase from 2004 to 2005 resulted from an improvement in UCF Hotel Venture s cash available for distribution, which allowed us to enjoy an additional ground rent of $5.5 million after UCF Hotel Venture s partners received a distribution
equal to a set percentage of their original capital investment. There is an annual cap on the additional ground rent.      Hotel guests may charge theme park
passes, food, beverage and merchandise sold at our theme parks and food, beverage, merchandise and entertainment services sold at CityWalk venues owned or operated by us to their hotel room account by presenting their room key. We then collect this
revenue by billing UCF Hotel Venture. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, total hotel room key charges from UCF Hotel Venture were $9.1 million, $9.3 million, and $8.4 million, respectively.       Reciprocal covenants and easement agreement       Under a Reciprocal
Covenants and Easement Agreement, we are required to provide bus and boat transportation for hotel guests between our theme parks and the UCF Hotel Venture hotels. We are also responsible for maintaining the related waterways and         
   79   

Table of Contents  

   pedestrian walkways. UCF Hotel Venture reimburses us for 50% of these costs. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, UCF Hotel
Venture s portion of the total maintenance and operating costs related to transportation was $0.8 million, $1.1 million and $0.9 million respectively.      We are also required to maintain all Universal Orlando Resort common areas, such as roadways and non-transportation roadways. UCF Hotel Venture reimburses us on a graduating scale as hotels open. In 2003, 2004, and 2005, the total common
area maintenance costs from UCF Hotel Venture were $0.3 million per year.      We are responsible for hotel marketing. UCF Hotel Venture reimburses us up to
3.5% of each hotel s revenue to cover marketing costs. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, the total hotel marketing costs from UCF Hotel Venture was $6.6 million, $7.2 million, and $7.5 million, respectively.      Our tour operator, Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations, sells wholesale travel packages and receives travel agent commission for each reservation at one of the
hotels and is reimbursed for credit card fees incurred. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, the total travel agent commissions earned through UCF Hotel Venture was $0.3 million, $0.3 million, and $0.2 million, respectively, and the amounts for credit card fees
was $0.2 million, $0.2 million, and $0.1 million, respectively. In addition, Universal Parks   Resorts Vacations books hotel rooms on behalf of UCF Hotel Venture and receives a booking fee for each reservation. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, the
total booking fees UCF Hotel Venture earned by us was $0.2 million, $0.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively.       Transactions with other theme parks
owned by Vivendi Universal Entertainment       Vivendi Universal Entertainment owns the Wet n Wild  water park in Orlando. We participate with other
Orlando theme parks, including Wet n Wild , in an Orlando FlexTicket program which we manage and which permits a customer to visit our theme parks, Wet n Wild , Sea World  Orlando and Busch Gardens  Tampa Bay. Revenue sharing is
negotiated and agreed upon by all theme park participants at the beginning of each year, based on attendance share at each attraction participating in the Orlando FlexTicket program. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, our share of revenue from the Orlando
FlexTicket program was $31.6 million, $40.6 million and $44.2 million, respectively. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, Wet n Wild  s share was $6.0 million, $7.7 million and $8.3 million, respectively.      We purchase food and alcohol supplies for Wet n Wild  to enable Wet n Wild  to benefit from our purchasing relationships. Although Wet n Wild  does
not pay us a fee or commission for this service we benefit from lower food and alcohol prices as a result of our increased buying power.      For our rides and
attractions that are also developed for other Universal theme parks by the creative group of Vivendi Universal Entertainment, we share research and development costs. These costs are allocated pro rata among the various Universal theme parks that
are building the ride or attraction.      From time to time we may enter into arrangements with other theme parks owned or operated by Vivendi Universal
Entertainment to share the expertise of certain employees with other parties. We may enter into similar arrangements with other theme parks that Vivendi Universal Entertainment or its affiliates may develop in the future. Services rendered to
affiliates are either reimbursed or paid directly by the affiliate.       Transactions with NBC Universal and GE       As a result of the NBC Universal Transaction we are realizing synergies with other NBC Universal businesses which include cross-promotion with a variety of NBC Universal
television and cable services, in particular advertising time on the NBC television network and other promotions. In response, NBC television and cable services receive visual identification in our parks. During the period from the closing of the
NBC Universal Transaction to December 31, 2004 and during the year ended December 31, 2005, we received advertising/promotional time from NBC Universal and NBC Universal received visual identification in our theme parks. We estimate the
value of both sides of this transaction during 2004 and 2005 to be $1.6 million and $3.0 million, respectively.      At the suggestion of NBCU, costs were
incurred to upgrade UCHC s environmental, health, and safety equipment and procedures. In connection with these upgrades, NBCU entered into third-party contracts. The Partners agreed that we will pay for these costs. Total costs incurred
through December 31, 2005 were approximately $4.1 million, of which approximately $2.0 million was capitalized as property and equipment and approximately $2.1 million was expensed within other costs and operating expenses. Of the total costs
incurred, as of December 31, 2005, UCHC owed NBCU $1.7 million as a reimbursement for costs paid by NBCU.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

   We lease certain trailers through a subsidiary of GE. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the cost of these
leases was approximately $0.2 million. The leases expire in 2008, while the minimum future lease payments under the leases totaled approximately $0.5 million as of December 31, 2005. These leases existed prior to the NBC Universal Transaction.
      Blackstone loans       In late 2004, JPMorgan Chase Bank
and another lender made loans to our equity holders that are controlled by Blackstone in the aggregate principal amount of $178.0 million and made commitments for additional loans of up to $52.0 million under a revolving credit facility.
The obligations of the borrowers under the loans are secured by their equity interests in us and are guaranteed by NBC Universal on a deficiency basis, subject to the terms of the guarantee. The loans will mature in five years. Blackstone and NBC
Universal have agreed to cooperate to obtain refinancing of the loans, if not fully paid at that time, with credit enhancement provided by NBC Universal. All future distributions received by the borrowers from us are to be applied to the payment of
interest and repayment of the loans. It is anticipated that the only assets of the borrowers will be their equity interests in us.       Transactions with
Blackstone       We utilize SunGard Data Systems, Inc. ( SunGard ) for our disaster recovery services. SunGard was acquired on August 11, 2005
through a merger transaction involving Blackstone among others. Our use of SunGard predates the merger transaction, and the transacted services are result of arms length negotiations. During the year ended 2005, the total cost of these services was
approximately $0.2 million.       Consultant agreement       In
1987, UCDP entered into an agreement with Steven Spielberg (the  Consultant ) to supply consulting services for a fee based on our gross revenues. Diamond Lane Productions, the entity to which he has assigned his rights, is also entitled
to a fee based on the gross revenues of all gated motion picture and/or television themed attractions owned or operated, in whole or in part, by (or pursuant to a license from) us, or MCA Inc. (now Universal Studios, Inc.), any of our
partners or any of their affiliates ( comparable projects ), other than at Universal City, California. At present, the only theme park that is a comparable project is Universal Studios Japan in Osaka, Japan, which is partially owned by
affiliates of Vivendi Universal Entertainment. It is possible that comparable projects will be created in the future that would fall under the consulting agreement.      For 2003, 2004 and 2005, the fees incurred by us under this agreement for our parks were approximately $15.5 million, $18.5 million and $17.8 million, respectively. Fees with respect to Universal
Studios Japan are paid by an affiliate of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and are not paid by us. The unpaid fees were approximately $23.9 million and $3.7 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005. These amounts
were paid in the following year. The Consultant may also be entitled to participate in certain sales of equity by our partners and to participate in certain real estate development activities of our partners or their affiliates.      Although the agreement has no expiration date, starting in June 2010, the Consultant has the right under certain circumstances to terminate the periodic payments
under the agreement and receive instead one payment equal to the fair market value of the Consultant s interest in our parks and all comparable projects that have been open at that time for at least one year. If the parties cannot agree on the
fair market value of that interest, it will be determined by a binding appraisal procedure. We represented under the agreement that the Consultant s interest in each of our parks and in any comparable projects will have priority over the
interests of all financiers, lenders and others who may have an interest in that park or project. Our obligations under the agreement are guaranteed by Universal Studios, Inc., as successor to MCA Inc., and Universal
Studios, Inc. s obligations under that guarantee have in turn been assumed by Vivendi Universal Entertainment. Vivendi Universal Entertainment has indemnified us against any liability under the consulting agreement related to any
comparable project that is not owned or controlled by us. Under the terms of the May 2010 notes, the April 2010 notes and our senior secured credit agreement, a lien to secure our obligations under the Consultant agreement would be a permitted lien.
     On March 15, 2005, counsel for the Consultant delivered to UCDP a report, which asserts that the Consultant is owed additional fees for the period from
1992 to 2002. On March 28, 2006, the parties agreed to a resolution in principal of all claims that could be raised in an audit (including those specifically raised in the report), subject to execution of mutually agreed settlement documentation.
Although the parties appear to have reached a resolution in principle, because a settlement agreement is not yet finalized, there can be no assurances that this matter is resolved. The resolution is within the amount accrued for the loss
contingency.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services        Audit Fees       Fees for audit services totaled approximately $558,000 and $580,000 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, including
fees associated with the annual audits, reviews of our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, assistance with the review of documents filed with the SEC, and accounting consultations.       Audit-Related Fees       None.       Tax Fees       None.       All Other Fees       None.       Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies       The duties and
responsibilities of our Audit Committee include the pre-approval of all audit, audit related, tax, and other services permitted by law or applicable SEC regulations (including fee and cost ranges) to be performed by our independent registered public
accounting firm. Any pre-approved services that will involve fees or costs exceeding pre-approved levels will also require specific pre-approval by the Audit Committee. Unless otherwise specified by the Audit Committee in pre-approving a service,
the pre-approval will be effective for the 12-month period following pre-approval. The Audit Committee will not approve any non-audit services prohibited by applicable SEC regulations or any services in connection with a transaction initially
recommended by the independent registered public accounting firm, the purpose of which may be tax avoidance and the tax treatment of which may not be supported by the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations.      Our Audit Committee requires that our independent registered public accounting firm, in conjunction with our Principal Financial Officer, be responsible for seeking
pre-approval for providing services to us and that any request for pre-approval must inform the Audit Committee about each service to be provided and must provide detail as to the particular service to be provided.      All of the services provided by Ernst   Young LLP described above were approved by our Audit Committee.         
   82   

Table of Contents  

PART IV        
  Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules        

(a)  
   Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules          

(1)  
  Combined Financial Statements.        Combined Financial
Statements are listed in the Index to Combined Financial Statements on page 42 of this report.       

(2)  
  Combined Financial Statement Schedules.        No financial
statement schedules are included because they are not applicable, are not required, or because required information is included in the financial statements or the notes thereto.       

(b)  
   E xhibits        The following is a list of exhibits
required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K to be filed as part of this Report. Where so indicated by footnote, exhibits that were previously filed are incorporated by reference. For exhibits incorporated by reference, the location of the
exhibit in the previous filing is indicated in parentheses.       

Exhibit Number   
     
     Exhibit Description     
 
  3.1  
     
  Third Amended and Restated Agreement of General Partnership of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, dated as of March 2, 2005, by and among Blackstone UTP Capital LLC, Blackstone UTP Capital A
LLC, Blackstone UTP Offshore Capital LLC and Blackstone Family Media III LLC, and Universal City Property Management II LLC. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our registration statement on Form S-4 as filed March 22, 2005 (registration number
333-122778).   

3.2  
     
  Third Amended and Restated Agreement of General Partnership of Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, dated as of March 2, 2005, by and among Blackstone UTP Capital LLC, Blackstone UTP Capital A
LLC, Blackstone UTP Offshore Capital LLC and Blackstone Family Media III LLC, and Universal City Property Management II LLC. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our registration statement on Form S-4 as filed March 22, 2005 (registration number
333-122778).   

3.3  
     
  Articles of Incorporation of UCFH I Finance, Inc. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.5 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number
333-122778).   

3.4  
     
  Bylaws of UCFH I Finance, Inc. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.6 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number 333-122778).   

3.5  
     
  Articles of Incorporation of UCFH II Finance, Inc. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.7 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number
333-122778).   

3.6  
     
  Bylaws of UCFH II Finance, Inc. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.8 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number 333-122778).   

4.1  
     
  Indenture dated as of December 9, 2004 among Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, UCFH I Finance, Inc., UCFH II Finance, Inc. and The Bank of New York
Trust Company, N.A. Previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number 333-122778).   

4.2  
     
  Second Supplemental Indenture among Universal City Development Partners, Ltd., UCDP Finance, Inc., Universal City Travel Partners and The Bank of New York dated as of December 9, 2004.
Previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number 333-122778).   

4.3  
     
  Registration Rights Agreement dated December 9, 2004 among Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, UCFH I Finance, Inc., UCFH II Finance, Inc., J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC. Previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number 333-122778).   
       
   83   

Table of Contents  

4.4  
     
  Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Universal City Development Partners, Ltd., dated as of June 5, 2002, between Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, as sole
general partner, and Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, as sole limited partner incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. s and UCDP Finance, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-4
filed on September 10, 2003 (registration number 333-108661).   

4.5  
     
  Articles of Incorporation of UCDP Finance incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. s and UCDP Finance, Inc. s Registration Statement
on Form S-4 filed on September 10, 2003 (registration number 333-108661).   

4.6  
     
  Bylaws of UCDP Finance incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. s and UCDP Finance, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed
on September 10, 2003 (registration number 333-108661).   

4.7  
     
  Indenture dated as of March 28, 2003, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 12, 2003, among Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. and UCDP Finance, Inc., as
issuers, and The Bank of New York, as trustee incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. s and UCDP Finance, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on September 10, 2003
(registration number 333-108661).   

4.8  
     
  Registration Rights Agreement dated as of March 28, 2003, among Universal City Development Partners, Ltd., UCDP Finance, Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Credit
Suisse First Boston LLC, Scotia Capital (USA) Inc. and Wachovia Securities, Inc. incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. s and UCDP Finance, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-4
filed on September 10, 2003 (registration number 333-108661).   

4.9  
     
  Subordination Agreement dated as of March 28, 2003, among Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP, Universal Studios, Inc., Universal City Property Management II LLC, Universal City Florida Holding
Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, Additional Creditors (as defined therein), Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. and The Bank of New York, as trustee incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Universal City Development
Partners, Ltd. s and UCDP Finance, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on September 10, 2003 (registration number 333-108661).   

4.10  
     
  Calculation Agency Agreement among the Issuers and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. dated as of December 9, 2004. Previously filed as Exhibit 4.10 to our registration statement on
Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number 333-122778).   
       
   84   

Table of Contents  

85   

Table of Contents  

86   

Table of Contents  

87   

Table of Contents  

*  
  Filed with confidential treatment requested as to certain portions, which portions were omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
          
   88   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I    

Date: March 30, 2006   
     
    By:   
     
    /s/ Michael J. Short    

Name:   
     
    Michael J. Short    

Title:   
     
    Treasurer/Chief Financial Officer    

UCFH I FINANCE, INC.    

Date: March 30, 2006   
     
    By:   
     
    /s/ Michael J. Short    

Name:   
     
    Michael J. Short    

Title:   
     
    Treasurer/Chief Financial Officer    

UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II    

Date: March 30, 2006   
     
    By:   
     
    /s/ Michael J. Short    

Name:   
     
    Michael J. Short    

Title:   
     
    Treasurer/Chief Financial Officer    

UCFH II FINANCE, INC.    

Date: March 30, 2006   
     
    By:   
     
    /s/ Michael J. Short    

Name:   
     
    Michael J. Short    

Title:   
     
    Treasurer/Chief Financial Officer    
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Name    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     
 
    /s/ J OHN  R. S PROULS      John R. Sprouls   
      
  President/Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and UCFH I Finance, Inc., Universal City Florida Holding Co. II and UCFH II Finance, Inc.
and Partner Representative of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II  
     
    March 30, 2006    

/s/ M ICHAEL  J. S HORT      Michael J. Short   
      
  Treasurer/Chief Financial Officer (principal financial and accounting officer) of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and UCFH I Finance, Inc., Universal City Florida Holding Co. II and UCFH II
Finance, Inc.  
     
    March 30, 2006    

/s/ T HOMAS  L. W ILLIAMS      Thomas L. Williams   
      
  Partner Representative of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II and Director and Chairman of UCFH I Finance, Inc. and UCFH II Finance, Inc.  
     
    March 30, 2006    
       
   89   

Table of Contents  

/s/ P ATRICIA  E. H UTTON      Patricia E. Hutton   
      
  Partner Representative of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II  
     
  March 30, 2006   

/s/ H OWARD  A. L IPSON      Howard A. Lipson   
      
  Partner Representative of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II and Director of UCFH I Finance, Inc. and UCFH II Finance, Inc.  
     
    March 30, 2006    

/s/ M ICHAEL  S. C HAE      Michael S. Chae   
      
  Partner Representative of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II  
     
    March 30, 2006    

/s/ D AVID  S. B LITZER      David S. Blitzer   
      
  Partner Representative of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II  
     
    March 30, 2006    
       
   90   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS        

Exhibit       Number    
     
     Exhibit Description     
 
  3.1  
     
  Third Amended and Restated Agreement of General Partnership of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, dated as of March 2, 2005, by and among Blackstone UTP Capital LLC, Blackstone UTP Capital
A LLC, Blackstone UTP Offshore Capital LLC and Blackstone Family Media III LLC, and Universal City Property Management II LLC. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our registration statement on Form S-4 as filed March 22, 2005 (registration number
333-122778).   

3.2  
     
  Third Amended and Restated Agreement of General Partnership of Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, dated as of March 2, 2005, by and among Blackstone UTP Capital LLC, Blackstone UTP
Capital A LLC, Blackstone UTP Offshore Capital LLC and Blackstone Family Media III LLC, and Universal City Property Management II LLC. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our registration statement on Form S-4 as filed March 22, 2005 (registration
number 333-122778).   

3.3  
     
  Articles of Incorporation of UCFH I Finance, Inc. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.5 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number
333-122778).   

3.4  
     
  Bylaws of UCFH I Finance, Inc. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.6 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number 333-122778).   

3.5  
     
  Articles of Incorporation of UCFH II Finance, Inc. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.7 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number
333-122778).   

3.6  
     
  Bylaws of UCFH II Finance, Inc. Previously filed as Exhibit 3.8 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number 333-122778).   

4.1  
     
  Indenture dated as of December 9, 2004 among Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, UCFH I Finance, Inc., UCFH II Finance, Inc. and The Bank of New York
Trust Company, N.A. Previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number 333-122778).   

4.2  
     
  Second Supplemental Indenture among Universal City Development Partners, Ltd., UCDP Finance, Inc., Universal City Travel Partners and The Bank of New York dated as of December 9, 2004.
Previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number 333-122778).   

4.3  
     
  Registration Rights Agreement dated December 9, 2004 among Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, UCFH I Finance, Inc., UCFH II Finance, Inc., J.P.
Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC. Previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to our registration statement on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number 333-122778).   

4.4  
     
  Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Universal City Development Partners, Ltd., dated as of June 5, 2002, between Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, as sole general
partner, and Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, as sole limited partner incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. s and UCDP Finance, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on
September 10, 2003 (registration number 333-108661).   

4.5  
     
  Articles of Incorporation of UCDP Finance incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. s and UCDP Finance, Inc. s Registration
Statement on Form S-4 filed on September 10, 2003 (registration number 333-108661).   

4.6  
     
  Bylaws of UCDP Finance incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. s and UCDP Finance, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-4
filed on September 10, 2003 (registration number 333-108661).   

4.7  
     
  Indenture dated as of March 28, 2003, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 12, 2003, among Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. and UCDP Finance, Inc., as
issuers, and The Bank of New York, as trustee incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. s and UCDP Finance, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on September 10, 2003
(registration number 333-108661).   

4.8  
     
  Registration Rights Agreement dated as of March 28, 2003, among Universal City Development Partners, Ltd., UCDP Finance, Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC,
Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, Scotia Capital (USA) Inc. and Wachovia Securities, Inc. incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. s and UCDP Finance, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form
S-4 filed on September 10, 2003 (registration number 333-108661).   

4.9  
     
  Subordination Agreement dated as of March 28, 2003, among    

Table of Contents  

Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP, Universal Studios, Inc., Universal City Property Management II LLC, Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II,
Additional Creditors (as defined therein), Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. and The Bank of New York, as trustee incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. s and UCDP Finance,
Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on September 10, 2003 (registration number 333-108661).   

4.10  
     
  Calculation Agency Agreement among the Issuers and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. dated as of December 9, 2004. Previously filed as Exhibit 4.10 to our registration statement
on Form S-4 filed February 14, 2005 (registration number 333-122778).   

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

*  
  Filed with confidential treatment requested as to certain portions, which portions were omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

<EX-10.34>
 2
 dex1034.htm
 EXTENSION OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT OF MICHAEL SHORT

Extension of Employment Agreement of Michael Short 

Exhibit 10.34       April 4, 2005      Mr. Michael Short      Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP      1000 Universal Studios Plaza
     Orlando, Florida 32819      Dear
Mr. Short:      Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP (the  Company ) agrees to employ you and you agree to accept employment upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (the  Agreement ).      1.  Term . The term of this Agreement will commence
on September 1, 2005 and continue until August 31, 2007 unless extended pursuant to subparagraph (a) below (the  Term ), or unless earlier terminated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 4.      (a)  Option . The Company will have the following irrevocable option, exercisable at its sole discretion, to extend the Term, commencing upon the
expiration of the preceding Term, upon all the same terms and conditions as during such preceding Term. Such option is exercisable by written notice given not later than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the expiration of the Term
preceding that for which such option is exercised:      (i) a period of two (2) years commencing on September 1, 2007 and continuing
until August 31, 2009.      You agree and acknowledge that the Company has no obligation to extend the Term or to continue your employment
after expiration of the Term, and you expressly acknowledge that no promises or understandings to the contrary have been made or reached. You also agree and acknowledge that, should the Company choose to continue your employment for any period of
time following the expiration of the Term (including any extensions thereof), your employment with the Company will be  at will;  in other words, during any time following the expiration of the Term, the Company may terminate your
employment at any time, with or without reason and with or without notice, and you may resign at any time, with or without reason and with or without notice.       

Initials of employee    
    2.  Duties . You agree to be employed and perform your exclusive services for the Company or
one of its affiliates upon the terms and conditions of this Agreement. You will commence your services hereunder as Executive Vice President   Chief Financial Officer for Universal Orlando and you will perform the services requested from
time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company or a duly authorized officer of the Company (the  Board ). You will not be required, without your consent, to perform your primary duties under this Agreement in a location other than
in Orlando, Florida, except for required travel on the Company s business.         
   Page 1   

3.  Compensation and Related Matters .      (a)  Base Salary . For all services rendered under this Agreement, commencing September 1, 2005, the Company will pay you base salary at an
annual rate of Three Hundred Fifty Six Thousand Seven Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($356,700.00), payable in accordance with the Company s applicable payroll practices ( Base Salary ). The Base Salary reflected herein may not correspond
exactly to the amount received in any given calendar year. Your Base Salary is paid biweekly and is calculated by dividing Base Salary by 26.08335. Any higher Base Salary paid to you subsequently will be deemed the annual rate for the purposes of
this Agreement and will commence on the date determined by the Board.      The Company is not obligated to actually utilize your services, and
payment and benefits as described in Paragraphs 4(a) and 4(c) will discharge the Company s obligation under this Agreement.      (b)
 Bonus Compensation . You will be eligible to participate at a level appropriate to your position in the Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP ( VUE ) Annual Incentive Plan or any plan adopted in replacement thereof as determined by
the Board and in accordance with the plan s terms and conditions.      (c)  Long Term Incentive Plan . You are eligible to
participate at a level appropriate to your position in the Universal Orlando Long-Term Growth Plan (or any plan adopted in replacement thereof in which you are specifically designated as a participant) as determined by the Universal Orlando Park
Advisory Board and in accordance with the plan s terms and conditions. In addition, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable General Electric plan and/or program as well as the specific terms of the particular grant, you
shall be eligible to receive discretionary equity or equity-equivalent grants from time to time under a General Electric plan or program, as such grants are offered to similarly situated employees. You understand that all such awards, if any, are
based on performance and are not guaranteed compensation. You understand and acknowledge that since you are eligible to participate in the Universal Orlando Long-Term Growth Plan, any awards made under any GE plan or program will take into
consideration your participation in any Orlando Long-Term Growth Plan.      (d)  Benefits . You will be entitled to participate in the
benefit plans generally available to executive employees of the Company so long as the Company provides such plans and programs and subject to their terms and conditions, except that you will not participate in any severance plan of the Company. You
will be entitled to accrue four (4) weeks vacation, with pay, during each calendar year, to take at such times as you and the Company may mutually agree upon, in accordance with current Company vacation policy.      (e)  Expense Reimbursements/Deductions . During your employment, the Company will reimburse you for your reasonable and necessary business expenses
in accordance with its then prevailing policy for similarly situated employees (which will include appropriate itemization and substantiation of expenses incurred). The Company is entitled to deduct from monies payable and reimbursable to you by the
Company, all sums that you owe the Company or any of its affiliates at any time.      (f)  Withholding . The Company may withhold from any
amounts payable under this Agreement such federal, state or local taxes as will be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable laws or regulation.         
   Page 2   

4.  Compensation Upon Certain Termination Events .      (a)  Compensation Payable . Should your employment with the Company terminate, you will be entitled to the amounts and benefits shown on the
following table, subject to Paragraphs 4(b) through 4(e). In the event of such termination, and except for payments noted in this Paragraph 4, the Company will have no further obligations to you under this Agreement.       

Termination For Cause    
     
     Involuntary Termination    
     
     Disability    
     
     Death     
 
  Payment of (1) any accrued but unpaid Base Salary due you through termination, and (2) other unpaid amounts then due you under Company benefit plans or programs.  
     
  Same as for termination for Cause except that your Base Salary and benefits (other than benefits provided under (1) any plan qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, (2) any
nonqualified pension plan and (3) any stock or cash incentive based plan) will also continue through the expiration of the Term, provided you meet the requirements in Paragraph 5 and subject to the terms and conditions of each benefit
plan.  
     
  Same as for termination for Cause except that your Base Salary will continue until the earliest of (1) the 180   th    day following the start of your disability absence, or (2) your death and will be reduced by other Company-provided disability benefits available to you.
Payment of a pro-rata portion of your bonus for the year of your termination.  
     
  Payment of (1) any accrued but unpaid Base Salary due you through your date of death, (2) a pro-rata portion of your bonus for the year of your termination and (3) other unpaid amounts then due
you under Company benefit plans or programs, except that those payments will be made to your estate or legal representative, and your death benefits payable due to your death under Company employee benefit plans or programs will also be
paid.   
    (b)  Termination for Cause . The Company may terminate your employment for cause at any time
without advance notice.  Cause  will include, but not be limited to:      (i) your material failure to perform your material duties or
your material breach of the terms of this Agreement which is not remedied by you within 30 days after receipt of written notice from Universal specifically delineating each claimed failure or breach and setting forth Universal s intention to
terminate your employment if the failure or breach is not duly remedied;         
   Page 3   

(ii) your material failure to comply with Company policies, as such policies may be amended from time to
time, including, without limitation, the General Electric Integrity Policies contained in  The Spirit and the Letter of Our Commitment , a copy of which is enclosed herewith (a copy of the Personal Commitment Acknowledgement Form is also
attached hereto as Schedule 1 for your signature), the NBC Universal Policy on Harassment and the Employment Data Protection Standards, copies of which are attached as Schedule 2 to this Agreement as determined by the Company s Human Resources
or Internal Audit Departments following a full, good faith investigation; or      (iii) your conviction of a felony or crime of moral
turpitude.      (c)  Involuntary Termination . The Company may terminate your employment other than for Cause or on account of Disability,
as defined in Paragraph 4(d), in which case you will receive the greater of (i) continuation of Base Salary and benefits as specified in Paragraph 4(a); provided the Company will retain a right of offset against the amounts payable to you under
this Paragraph and will be entitled to reduce the amount of any compensation and benefits payable to you under this Agreement by the amount of compensation and benefits of any kind earned or received by you from any third party from the date of
termination through the end of the payment term pursuant to this Paragraph or (ii) in exchange for a release acceptable to the Company, a lump sum payment equal to one month of Base Salary in effect immediately before the day of termination
multiplied by the number of years you were employed with the Company and/or its affiliates. You agree that you will have no rights or remedies in the event of your termination without Cause other than those set forth in this Agreement.   
  (d)  Termination for Disability . The Company may terminate your employment on account of a Disability and the payments required by Paragraph
4(a) will be made. You will be deemed to have a  Disability  if you are incapacitated by a physical or mental condition, illness or injury which has prevented you from being able to perform the essential duties of your position under this
Agreement in a satisfactory fashion for all of a consecutive 180-day period.      (e)  Death . If you die while employed under this
Agreement, the payments required by Paragraph 4(a) will be made.      5.  Covenants .      (a)  Acknowledgment . You acknowledge that you currently possess or will acquire secret, confidential, or proprietary information or trade secrets
concerning the operations, future plans, or business methods of the Company or its affiliates. You agree that the Company would be severely damaged if you misused or disclosed this information. To prevent this harm, you are making the promises set
forth in this Paragraph. You acknowledge that the provisions of this Paragraph are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company and that any violation of such provisions would result in irreparable injury to the
Company. In the event of a violation of the provisions of this Paragraph, you further agree that the Company will, in addition to all other remedies available to it, be entitled to seek equitable relief by way of injunction and any other legal or
equitable remedies.         
   Page 4   

(b)  Promise Not to Disclose . You will hold in a fiduciary capacity, for the benefit of the
Company, all confidential or proprietary information, knowledge and data of the Company, which you may acquire, learn, obtain or develop during your employment by the Company. Further, you will not, during the Term or at any time thereafter,
directly or indirectly use, communicate or divulge for your own benefit or for the benefit of another any such information, knowledge or data other than (i) as required by the Company or (ii) as required by law or as ordered by a court or
(iii) with respect to matters that are generally known to the public. You make the same commitments with respect to the secret, confidential or proprietary information, knowledge and data of affiliates, customers, contractors and others with
whom the Company has a business relationship or to whom the Company or its affiliates owe a duty of confidentiality. The information covered by this protection includes, but is not limited to, matters of a business or strategic nature such as
information about costs and profits, projections, personnel information, reengineering, records, customer lists, contact persons, customer data, software, sales data, possible new business ventures and/or expansion plans or matters of a creative
nature, including without limitation, matters regarding ideas of a literary, creative, musical or dramatic nature, or regarding any form of product produced, distributed or acquired by the Company ( Company Information ). Company
Information will be considered and kept as the private, proprietary and confidential information of the Company except within the Company as required to perform services, and may not be divulged (A) without the express written authorization of
the Company or (B) unless required by law or ordered by a court or (C) unless the Company Information is generally known to the public. You further agree that you will neither publicly disclose the terms of this Agreement nor publicly
discuss the Company in a manner that tends to portray the Company in an unfavorable light.      (c)  Promise Not to Engage In Certain
Activities . You will not at any time during your employment by the Company or the period of payment pursuant to Paragraph 4 be or become (i) interested or engaged in any manner, directly or indirectly, either alone or with any person, firm
or corporation now existing or hereafter created, in any business which is or may be competitive with the business of the Company and its affiliates or (ii) directly or indirectly a stockholder or officer, director, agent, consultant or
employee of, or in any manner associated with, or aid or abet, or give information or financial assistance to, any such business. The provisions of this Paragraph will not be deemed to prohibit your purchase or ownership, as a passive investment, of
not more than five percent (5%) of the outstanding capital stock of any corporation whose stock is publicly traded.      (d)  Promise to
Return Property . All records, files, lists, drawings, documents, models, equipment, property, computer, software or intellectual property relating to the Company s business in whatever form (including electronic) will be returned to the
Company upon the termination of your employment, whether such termination is at your or the Company s request.      (e)  Promise Not to
Solicit . You will not during (i) the period of your employment by the Company, (ii) the period of payment pursuant to Paragraph 4 or (iii) the period ending one (1) year after the later of the periods described in the
previous clauses (i) or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any employees, consultants, contractors or representatives of the Company (or those of any of its affiliates) to stop working for, contracting with or representing the Company or any
of its affiliates or to work for, contract with or represent any of the Company s (or its affiliates ) competitors.         
   Page 5   

(f)  Company Ownership . The results and proceeds of your services hereunder, including, without
limitation, any works of authorship resulting from your services during your employment with the Company and/or any of the Company s affiliates and any works in progress, will be works-made-for hire and the Company will be deemed the sole owner
throughout the universe of any and all rights of whatsoever nature therein, whether or not now or hereafter known, existing, contemplated, recognized or developed, with the right to use the same in perpetuity in any manner the Company determines in
its sole discretion without any further payment to you whatsoever. If, for any reason, any of such results and proceeds will not legally be a work-for-hire and/or there are any rights which do not accrue to the Company under the preceding sentence,
then you hereby irrevocably assign and agree to assign any and all of your right, title and interest thereto, including, without limitation, any and all copyrights, patents, trade secrets, trademarks and/or other rights of whatsoever nature therein,
whether or not now or hereafter known, existing, contemplated, recognized or developed, to the Company, and the Company will have the right to use the same in perpetuity throughout the universe in any manner the Company determines without any
further payment to you whatsoever. You will, from time to time, as may be requested by the Company, do any and all things which the Company may deem useful or desirable to establish or document the Company s exclusive ownership of any and all
rights in any such results and proceeds, including, without limitation, the execution of appropriate copyright and/or patent applications or assignments. To the extent you have any rights in the results and proceeds of your services that cannot be
assigned in the manner described above, you unconditionally and irrevocably waive the enforcement of such rights. This Paragraph is subject to and will not be deemed to limit, restrict, or constitute any waiver by the Company of any rights of
ownership to which the Company may be entitled by operation of law by virtue of the Company being your employer.      (g)  Prior
Restrictions . You represent that you are free to enter into this Agreement and are not restricted in any manner from performing under this Agreement by any prior agreement, commitment, or understanding with any third party. If you have acquired
confidential or proprietary information in the course of your prior employment or as a consultant, you will fully comply with any duties not to disclose such information then applicable to you during the Term.      6.  Services Unique . You recognize that your services hereunder are of a special, unique, unusual, extraordinary and intellectual character, giving
them a peculiar value, the loss of which the Company cannot be reasonably or adequately compensated for in damages. In the event of a breach of this Agreement by you (particularly, but without limitation, with respect to the provisions hereof
relating to the exclusivity of your services), the Company will, in addition to all other remedies available to it, be entitled to seek equitable relief by way of injunction and any other legal or equitable remedies. This provision will not be
construed as a waiver of the rights which the Company may have for damages under this Agreement or otherwise, and all of the Company s rights and remedies will be unrestricted.         
   Page 6   

7.  Notices . All notices and other communications hereunder will be in writing and will be given by
hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:       If
to Employee :      At the address indicated on the first page hereof.          If to the Company :      Vivendi Universal
Entertainment LLLP      100 Universal City Plaza      Universal City, California 91608      Attention: Executive Vice President, Human Resources      or to such other address as either party will have furnished to the other in writing. Notice and communications will be effective when actually received by the
addressee.      8.  Assignment/Affiliated Corporations . The Company will have the right to assign this Agreement to any affiliate or
successor of the Company so long as this Agreement is assumed by the affiliate or successor. You acknowledge and agree that all of your covenants and obligations to the Company, as well as the rights of the Company hereunder, will run in favor of
and will be enforceable by the Company, its affiliates and their successors.      9.  Arbitration of Disputes .      (a)  Arbitrable Disputes . You and the Company agree to use final and binding arbitration to resolve any dispute each party may have with the other
or any affiliate relating to this Agreement or your employment with and/or termination from the Company (an  Arbitrable Dispute ). An Arbitrable Dispute includes, without limitation, any dispute about the validity, interpretation, or
effect of this Agreement, or alleged violations of it, and further including, without limitation, any and all claims for compensation, breach of implied contract, tort violations and claims arising out of any alleged discrimination, harassment, or
retaliation, including, but not limited to, those covered by the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (or similar state statute), the 1964 Civil Rights Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 2000e  et seq. , the Age Discrimination in Employment Act,
and the Americans With Disabilities Act.      (b)  Exclusive Forum . Arbitration in this manner will be the exclusive forum for any
Arbitrable Dispute. THE PARTIES HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHTS THEY MAY HAVE TO TRIAL BY JUDGE OR JURY IN REGARD TO AN ARBITRABLE DISPUTE. Should you or the Company attempt to resolve an Arbitrable Dispute by any method other than arbitration pursuant to
this Paragraph (excluding any initial oral or written settlement negotiations by either party), the responding party will be entitled to recover from the initiating party all damages, expenses, and attorneys  fees incurred as a result of that
breach.      (c)  Injunctive Relief . Notwithstanding Paragraphs 9(a) and 9(b), due to the irreparable harm that would result from certain
actual or threatened violations of this Agreement, where either party is seeking only injunctive relief (e.g., a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction or permanent injunction), such party may file suit or bring an application for such
injunctive relief in any federal or state court of competent jurisdiction without violating this Agreement and such suit for injunctive relief will not be considered an Arbitrable Dispute.         
   Page 7   

(d)  The Arbitration . Arbitration will take place in Orlando, Florida before a single experienced
employment arbitrator licensed to practice law in Florida and selected in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American Arbitration Association. In any such arbitration proceeding, any hearing must be
transcribed by a certified court reporter. The arbitrator may not modify, change or disregard any lawful terms of this Agreement in any way or issue an award that is contrary to the law of Florida. At the conclusion of the arbitration, the
arbitrator shall issue a written ruling consistent with Florida law setting forth the essential findings of fact and conclusions of law on which the arbitration award is based. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding and
enforceable in any court of competent jurisdiction.      (e)  Fees and Expenses . Each party will pay the fees of their respective
attorneys, the expenses of their witnesses and experts, cost of any record or transcript of the arbitration, and any other expenses connected with the arbitration that such party might be expected to incur had the dispute been subject to resolution
in court. The Company shall pay all costs and expenses of the arbitration that you would not otherwise have incurred if the dispute had been adjudicated in a court of law, rather than through arbitration; such as the arbitrator s fees and any
arbitration association administrative fees or filing fees in excess of the maximum court filing fee in the jurisdiction in which the arbitration is commenced.      (f)  Confidentiality . All proceedings and all documents prepared in connection with any Arbitrable Dispute shall be confidential and, unless otherwise required by law, the subject matter thereof shall not be
disclosed to any person other than the parties to the proceedings, their counsel, witnesses and experts, the arbitrator, and, if involved, the court and court staff.      10.  Miscellaneous . No provisions of this Agreement may be amended, modified, waived, or discharged except by a written document signed by you and a duly authorized officer of the Company. A waiver of any
conditions or provisions of this Agreement in a given instance will not be deemed a waiver of such conditions or provisions at any other time. The validity, interpretation, construction, and performance of this Agreement will be governed by the laws
of the State of Florida without regard to its conflicts of law principles. This Agreement will be binding upon, and will inure to the benefit of, you and your estate and the Company and any successor thereto, but neither this Agreement nor any
rights arising under it may be assigned or pledged by you.      11.  Validity . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provisions of
this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provisions of this Agreement, which will remain in full force and effect.      12.  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original, but all of which together will constitute the same instrument.         
   Page 8   

13.  Entire Agreement . This Agreement sets forth the entire understanding between you and the
Company. All oral or written agreements or representations, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement are set forth in this Agreement. All prior employment agreements, understandings and obligations (whether written,
oral, express or implied) between you and the Company, if any, are terminated as of the commencement date of the Term and are superseded by this Agreement.        

Very truly yours,   

Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP   

By:  
     
    /s/ Kenneth Kahrs    
 
  Name :  
     
  Kenneth Kahrs   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior VP of Human Resources   

ACCEPTED AND AGREED:   

/s/ Michael Short     MICHAEL
SHORT    
       
   Page 9   

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.35>
 3
 dex1035.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT OF J. MICHAEL HIGHTOWER

Employment Agreement of J. Michael Hightower 

Exhibit 10.35       April 25, 2002      Mr. James Hightower      Universal Studios, Inc.      1000 Universal Studios Plaza      Orlando, Florida 32819      Dear Mr. Hightower:      Universal Studios, Inc. ( Universal  or the  Company ) agrees to employ you and you agree to accept employment upon the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (the  Agreement ).      1.  Term . The term of this Agreement will commence on July 1, 2002 and continue until June 30, 2004 unless extended pursuant to
subparagraph (a) below (the  Term ), or unless earlier terminated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 4.      (a)
 Options . Universal will have the following irrevocable options, exercisable at its sole discretion, to extend the Term, commencing upon the expiration of the preceding Term, upon all the same terms and conditions as during such preceding
Term. Such options are exercisable by written notice given not later than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the Term preceding that for which such option is exercised:      (i) a period of two (2) years commencing on July 1, 2004 and continuing until June 30, 2006;      (ii) a period of two (2) years commencing on July 1, 2006 and continuing until June 30, 2008.      You agree and acknowledge that Universal has no obligation to extend the Term or to continue your employment after expiration of the Term, and you
expressly acknowledge that no promises or understandings to the contrary have been made or reached. You also agree and acknowledge that, should Universal choose to continue your employment for any period of time following the expiration of the Term
(including any extensions thereof), your employment with Universal will be  at will;  in other words, during any time following the expiration of the Term, Universal may terminate your employment at any time, with or without reason and
with or without notice, and you may resign at any time, with or without reason and with or without notice.       

Initials of employee    
    2.  Duties . You agree to be employed and perform your exclusive services for the Company or
one of its affiliates upon the terms and conditions of this Agreement. You will commence your services hereunder as Vice President, Project Management for Universal Creative and you will perform the services requested from time to time by the Board
of Directors of Universal (the  Board ) or its duly authorized officers.         
   Page 1   

3.  Compensation and Related Matters .      (a)  Base Salary . For all services rendered under this Agreement, commencing July 1, 2002, Universal will pay you base salary at an annual rate
of Two Hundred Sixty Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($260,500.00), payable in accordance with Universal s applicable payroll practices ( Base Salary ). Any higher Base Salary paid to you subsequently will be deemed the
annual rate for the purposes of this Agreement and will commence on the date determined by the Board or its duly authorized officers.      Universal is not obligated to actually utilize your services, and payment as described in Paragraphs 4(a) and 4(c) will discharge the Company s obligation under this Agreement.      (b)  Bonus Compensation . You will be eligible to participate at a level appropriate to your position in Universal s Annual Incentive Plan or
any plan adopted in replacement thereof as determined by the Board of Directors of Universal and in accordance with the plan s terms and conditions.      (c)  Long Term Incentive Plan . You will be eligible to participate at a level appropriate to your position in the Vivendi Universal Stock Options Plan or any plan adopted in replacement thereof as determined by
the Board of Directors of Vivendi Universal S.A. and in accordance with the plan s terms and conditions.      (d)  Benefits . You
will be entitled to participate in the benefit plans generally available to employees of Universal so long as the Company provides such plans and programs and subject to their terms and conditions, except that you will not participate in any
severance plan of Universal. Instead, subject to the requirements of this Paragraph, upon an involuntary termination of employment, as described in Paragraph 4(c), you will receive the greater of (i) the amounts payable pursuant to Paragraph
4(c) or (ii) the basic amounts payable pursuant to the Company s severance plan or policy. If the amount described in clause (ii) above is greater than the amount described in clause (i) above, in addition to the amounts payable
under Paragraph 4(c), you will receive, in exchange for a release acceptable to the Company, a lump sum payment calculated by the Company in its sole discretion equal to the difference between the amounts described in clauses (i) and
(ii) of the previous sentence. You will receive this lump sum payment as soon as practical after the release has been fully executed by you and the Company. In addition, you will be entitled to participate in the Universal Flexible Perquisite
Allowance and the Executive Auto Allowance Program on the same terms and conditions and only so long as Universal provides such plans and programs and in accordance with the plan s terms and conditions.      (e)  Expense Reimbursements/Deductions . During your employment, Universal will reimburse you for your reasonable and necessary business expenses in
accordance with its then prevailing policy for similarly situated employees (which will include appropriate itemization and substantiation of expenses incurred). The Company is entitled to deduct from monies payable and reimbursable to you by the
Company, all sums that you owe the Company or any of its affiliates at any time.         
   Page 2   

(f)  Withholding . The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such
federal, state or local taxes as will be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable laws or regulation.      4.  Compensation Upon
Certain Termination Events .      (a)  Compensation Payable . Should your employment with Universal terminate, you will be entitled to
the amounts and benefits shown on the following table, subject to Paragraphs 4(b) through 4(e). In the event of such termination, and except for payments noted in this Paragraph 4, Universal will have no further obligations to you under this
Agreement.         
   Page 3   

Termination For Cause    
     
     Involuntary Termination    
     
     Disability    
     
     Death     
 
  Payment of (1) any accrued but unpaid Base Salary due you through termination, and (2) other unpaid amounts then due you under Company benefit plans or programs.  
     
  Same as for termination for Cause except that your Base Salary and benefits (other than benefits provided under (1) any plan qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, (2) any
nonqualified pension plan and (3) any stock or incentive based plan) will also continue through the expiration of the Term, provided you meet the requirements in Paragraph 5 and subject to the terms and conditions of each benefit plan.  
     
  Same as for termination for Cause except that your Base Salary will continue until the earliest of (1) the 180   th    day following the start of your disability absence, or (2) your death and will be reduced by other Company-provided disability benefits available to
you.  
     
  Payment of (1) any accrued but unpaid Base Salary due you through your date of death, and (2) other unpaid amounts then due you under Company benefit plans or programs, except that those
payments will be made to your estate or legal representative, and your death benefits payable due to your death under Company employee benefit plans or programs will also be paid.   
    (b)  Termination for Cause . The Company may terminate your employment for cause at any time
without advance notice.  Cause  will include, but not be limited to:      (i) your material failure to perform your duties or your
material breach of the terms of this Agreement;      (ii) your material failure to comply with Company policies, including, without limitation
those set forth in the Universal Studios Group Code of Conduct and the Universal Discrimination and Sexual Harassment Policy, as such code of conduct and policies may be amended from time to time, copies of which are attached as Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; or         
   Page 4   

(iii) your conviction of a felony or crime of moral turpitude.      (c)  Involuntary Termination . Universal may terminate your employment other than for Cause or on account of Disability, as defined in Paragraph
4(d), in which case you will receive continuation of Base Salary and benefits as specified in Paragraph 4(a); provided the Company will retain a right of offset against the amounts payable to you under this Paragraph and will be entitled to reduce
the amount of any compensation and benefits payable to you under this Agreement by the amount of compensation and benefits of any kind earned or received by you from any third party from the date of termination through the end of the payment term
pursuant to this Paragraph. You agree that you will have no rights or remedies in the event of your termination without Cause other than those set forth in this Agreement.      (d)  Termination for Disability . The Company may terminate your employment on account of a Disability and the payments required by Paragraph 4(a)
will be made. You will be deemed to have a  Disability  if you are incapacitated by a physical or mental condition, illness or injury which has prevented you from being able to perform the essential duties of your position under this
Agreement in a satisfactory fashion for all of a consecutive 180-day period.      (e)  Death . If you die while employed under this
Agreement, the payments required by Paragraph 4(a) will be made.      5.  Covenants .      (a)  Acknowledgment . You acknowledge that you currently possess or will acquire secret, confidential, or proprietary information or trade secrets
concerning the operations, future plans, or business methods of the Company or its affiliates. You agree that the Company would be severely damaged if you misused or disclosed this information. To prevent this harm, you are making the promises set
forth in this Paragraph. You acknowledge that the provisions of this Paragraph are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company and that any violation of such provisions would result in irreparable injury to the
Company. In the event of a violation of the provisions of this Paragraph, you further agree that the Company will, in addition to all other remedies available to it, be entitled to seek equitable relief by way of injunction and any other legal or
equitable remedies.      (b)  Promise Not to Disclose . You will hold in a fiduciary capacity, for the benefit of the Company, all
confidential or proprietary information, knowledge and data of the Company which you may acquire, learn, obtain or develop during your employment by the Company. Further, you will not, during the Term or at any time thereafter, directly or
indirectly use, communicate or divulge for your own benefit or for the benefit of another any such information, knowledge or data other than (i) as required by the Company or (ii) as required by law or as ordered by a court or
(iii) with respect to matters that are generally known to the public. You make the same commitments with respect to the secret, confidential or proprietary information, knowledge and data of affiliates, customers, contractors and others with
whom the Company has a         
   Page 5   

business relationship or to whom the Company or its affiliates owe a duty of confidentiality. The information covered by
this protection includes, but is not limited to, matters of a business or strategic nature such as information about costs and profits, projections, personnel information, reengineering, records, customer lists, contact persons, customer data,
software, sales data, possible new business ventures and/or expansion plans or matters of a creative nature, including without limitation, matters regarding ideas of a literary, creative, musical or dramatic nature, or regarding any form of product
produced, distributed or acquired by the Company ( Company Information ). Company Information will be considered and kept as the private, proprietary and confidential information of the Company except within the Company as required to
perform services, and may not be divulged (A) without the express written authorization of the Company or (B) unless required by law or ordered by a court or (C) unless the Company Information is generally known to the public. You
further agree that you will neither publicly disclose the terms of this Agreement nor publicly discuss the Company in a manner that tends to portray the Company in an unfavorable light.      (c)  Promise Not to Engage In Certain Activities . You will not at any time during your employment by the Company or the period of payment pursuant
to Paragraph 4 be or become (i) interested or engaged in any manner, directly or indirectly, either alone or with any person, firm or corporation now existing or hereafter created, in any business which is or may be competitive with the
business of the Company and its affiliates or (ii) directly or indirectly a stockholder or officer, director, agent, consultant or employee of, or in any manner associated with, or aid or abet, or give information or financial assistance to,
any such business. The provisions of this Paragraph will not be deemed to prohibit your purchase or ownership, as a passive investment, of not more than five percent (5%) of the outstanding capital stock of any corporation whose stock is
publicly traded.      (d)  Promise to Return Property . All records, files, lists, drawings, documents, models, equipment, property,
computer, software or intellectual property relating to the Company s business in whatever form (including electronic) will be returned to the Company upon the termination of your employment, whether such termination is at your or the
Company s request.      (e)  Promise Not to Solicit . You will not during (i) the period of your employment by the Company,
(ii) the period of payment pursuant to Paragraph 4 or (iii) the period ending one (1) year after the later of the periods described in the previous clauses (i) or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any employees, consultants,
contractors or representatives of the Company (or those of any of its affiliates) to stop working for, contracting with or representing the Company or any of its affiliates or to work for, contract with or represent any of the Company s (or its
affiliates ) competitors.      (f)  Universal Ownership . The results and proceeds of your services hereunder, including, without
limitation, any works of authorship resulting from your services during your employment with Universal and/or any of Universal s affiliates and any works in progress, will be works-made-for hire and Universal will be deemed the sole owner
throughout the universe of any and all rights of whatsoever nature therein, whether or not now or hereafter known, existing,         
   Page 6   

contemplated, recognized or developed, with the right to use the same in perpetuity in any manner Universal determines in
its sole discretion without any further payment to you whatsoever. If, for any reason, any of such results and proceeds will not legally be a work-for-hire and/or there are any rights which do not accrue to Universal under the preceding sentence,
then you hereby irrevocably assign and agree to assign any and all of your right, title and interest thereto, including, without limitation, any and all copyrights, patents, trade secrets, trademarks and/or other rights of whatsoever nature therein,
whether or not now or hereafter known, existing, contemplated, recognized or developed, to Universal, and Universal will have the right to use the same in perpetuity throughout the universe in any manner Universal determines without any further
payment to you whatsoever. You will, from time to time, as may be requested by Universal, do any and all things which Universal may deem useful or desirable to establish or document Universal s exclusive ownership of any and all rights in any
such results and proceeds, including, without limitation, the execution of appropriate copyright and/or patent applications or assignments. To the extent you have any rights in the results and proceeds of your services that cannot be assigned in the
manner described above, you unconditionally and irrevocably waive the enforcement of such rights. This Paragraph is subject to and will not be deemed to limit, restrict, or constitute any waiver by Universal of any rights of ownership to which
Universal may be entitled by operation of law by virtue of Universal being your employer.      (g)  Prior Restrictions . You represent
that you are free to enter into this Agreement and are not restricted in any manner from performing under this Agreement by any prior agreement, commitment, or understanding with any third party. If you have acquired confidential or proprietary
information in the course of your prior employment or as a consultant, you will fully comply with any duties not to disclose such information then applicable to you during the Term.      6.  Services Unique . You recognize that your services hereunder are of a special, unique, unusual, extraordinary and intellectual character, giving
them a peculiar value, the loss of which the Company cannot be reasonably or adequately compensated for in damages. In the event of a breach of this Agreement by you (particularly, but without limitation, with respect to the provisions hereof
relating to the exclusivity of your services), the Company will, in addition to all other remedies available to it, be entitled to seek equitable relief by way of injunction and any other legal or equitable remedies. This provision will not be
construed as a waiver of the rights which the Company may have for damages under this Agreement or otherwise, and all of the Company s rights and remedies will be unrestricted.         
   Page 7   

7.  Notices . All notices and other communications hereunder will be in writing and will be given by
hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:       If
to Employee :      At the address indicated on the first page hereof.          If to Universal :      Universal Studios,
Inc.      100 Universal City Plaza      Universal City, California 91608      Attention: Executive Vice President, Human Resources      or to such other address as either party will have furnished to the other in writing. Notice and communications will be effective when actually received by the
addressee.      8.  Assignment/Affiliated Corporations . Universal will have the right to assign this Agreement to any affiliate or
successor of Universal. You acknowledge and agree that all of your covenants and obligations to Universal, as well as the rights of Universal hereunder, will run in favor of and will be enforceable by Universal, its affiliates and their successors.
     9.  Arbitration of Disputes .      (a)  Arbitrable Disputes . You and the Company agree to use final and binding arbitration to resolve any dispute each party may have with the other or any affiliate relating to this Agreement or your employment with and/or termination
from Universal (an  Arbitrable Dispute ). An Arbitrable Dispute includes any dispute about the validity, interpretation, or effect of this Agreement, or alleged violations of it, and further including any and all claims arising out of any
alleged discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, including, but not limited to, those covered by the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (or similar state statute), the 1964 Civil Rights Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 2000e  et seq. ,
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, and the Americans With Disabilities Act.      (b)  Injunctive Relief . Notwithstanding Paragraph
9(a), due to the irreparable harm that would result from certain actual or threatened violations of this Agreement, where either party is seeking only injunctive relief (e.g., a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction or permanent
injunction), such party may file suit or bring an application for such injunctive relief in any federal or state court of competent jurisdiction without violating this Agreement and such suit for injunctive relief will not be considered an
Arbitrable Dispute.      (c)  The Arbitration . Arbitration will take place in Orlando, Florida before a single experienced employment
arbitrator licensed to practice law in Florida and selected in accordance with the Employment Dispute Resolution Rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitrator may not modify or change this Agreement in any way. At the conclusion of
the arbitration, the arbitrator shall issue a written ruling setting forth the essential findings of fact and conclusions of law on which the arbitration award is based.      (d)  Fees and Expenses . Each party will pay the fees of their respective attorneys, the expenses of their witnesses, cost of any record         
   Page 8   

or transcript of the arbitration, and any other expenses connected with the arbitration that such party might be expected
to incur had the dispute been subject to resolution in court, but all costs of the arbitration which would not be incurred by the parties if the dispute were litigated in court, including the fees of the arbitrator and any arbitration association
administrative fees, will be paid by the Company.      (e)  Exclusive Forum . Arbitration in this manner will be the exclusive forum for
any Arbitrable Dispute. Should you or the Company attempt to resolve an Arbitrable Dispute by any method other than arbitration pursuant to this Paragraph, the responding party will be entitled to recover from the initiating party all damages,
expenses, and attorneys  fees incurred as a result of that breach.      10.  Miscellaneous . No provisions of this Agreement may be
amended, modified, waived, or discharged except by a written document signed by you and a duly authorized officer of the Company. A waiver of any conditions or provisions of this Agreement in a given instance will not be deemed a waiver of such
conditions or provisions at any other time. The validity, interpretation, construction, and performance of this Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of Florida without regard to its conflicts of law principles. This Agreement will be
binding upon, and will inure to the benefit of, you and your estate and the Company and any successor thereto, but neither this Agreement nor any rights arising under it may be assigned or pledged by you.      11.  Validity . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provisions of this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other
provisions of this Agreement, which will remain in full force and effect.      12.  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in one
or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original, but all of which together will constitute the same instrument.      13.
 Entire Agreement . This Agreement sets forth the entire understanding between us; all oral or written agreements or representations, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement are set forth in this Agreement
except that the terms of any applicable stock option agreement still apply. All prior employment agreements, understandings and obligations (whether written, oral, express or implied) between us, if any, are terminated as of the commencement date of
the Term and are superseded by this Agreement.        

Very truly yours,   

Universal Studios, Inc.   

By:  
     
    /s/ Kenneth Kahrs    
 
  Name :  
     
  Kenneth Kahrs   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior VP of Human Resources   

ACCEPTED AND AGREED:   

/s/ James Hightower     JAMES
HIGHTOWER    
       
   Page 9   

</EX-10.35>

<EX-10.36>
 4
 dex1036.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT OF RICHARD FLORELL

Employment Agreement of Richard Florell 

Exhibit 10.36       June 26, 2002      Ric Florell      9163 Ridge Pine Trail      Orlando, FL 32819       Re:
Employment Agreement       Dear Ric,      You and Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. d/b/a  Universal Orlando  (hereinafter referred to as  UO  or the  Employer ) have agreed as follows:       

1.  
   Definitions :        UO includes any subsidiary, or
affiliated company or any divisions thereof now existing or formed at any time after the date of this Agreement; any corporation which may merge into UO or with which UO may be merged or consolidated; any corporation which may acquire all or a
substantial portion of the assets or good will of UO; or any corporation which may result from a division or other reorganization of UO.       

2.  
   Employment and Services :        UO has employed you and
you have agreed to perform your exclusive services for UO upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.      You will perform such
services as requested from time to time by the President and Chief Operating Officer, Universal Orlando, or his duly authorized representative. Your employment as Senior Vice President, Universal CityWalk   Resort Services, will commence on
December 4, 2002, it being understood that the President and Chief Operating Officer, Universal Orlando, or his duly authorized officers may assign you to render your services in different occupational areas within Universal Orlando, provided,
however, that all such services will be consistent with and of the same or greater scope as your position as Senior Vice President, Universal CityWalk Resort Services.   

3.  
   Results and Proceeds :        As your employer, UO shall
own all rights in and to the results and proceeds connected with or arising out of, directly and indirectly, your services hereunder.       

4.  
   Term; Renewal :        The term of this Agreement shall
run three (3) years, commencing on December 4, 2002 and continuing until December 3, 2005.       

a.  
   Options :        UO shall have the following irrevocable
options to renew the term of this Agreement, commencing upon the expiration of the preceding term, upon all the same terms and conditions as during the initial term. Such options are exercisable by written notice given not later than sixty
(60) days prior to the expiration of the term preceding that for which such option is exercised:      (i) a period of twenty four
(24) months, commencing on December 4, 2005 and continuing until December 3, 2007.       You agree and acknowledge that UO has
no obligation to renew this Agreement or to continue your employment after expiration of the term hereunder, and you expressly acknowledge that no promises or understandings to the contrary have been made or reached.        

5.  
   Compensation :         

a.  
   Basic Salary :        For all your services rendered under
this Agreement, UO shall pay you a salary at an annual rate of no less than $221,665.60, or at such higher salary as may be determined by your performance review and the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Universal Recreation Group
( URG ). Such higher salary shall subsequently be deemed the annual rate, commencing on such date as the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, URG may determine, for purposes of this Agreement. Such salary shall be payable in equal
installments on UO s regular paydays during the term, subject to the usual and required employee payroll deductions and withholdings. UO is not obligated to actually utilize your services, and in the event it elects not to do so, you shall
continue to be compensated under the terms and conditions of this Agreement unless mutually agreed upon.         
   Page 2 of 5   

6.  
   Place and Condition of Employment :        Your principal
place of employment, unless otherwise specified, is the Orlando office of Universal Orlando. However, it is understood that you may be required to travel to other locations on behalf of Universal Orlando.       
    You shall be entitled to vacation with
pay under the UO vacation plan. Vacation not taken may not be  carried over  into another year without the approval of your Department Head and the Human Resources Department. No more than ten (10) days may be carried over at any one
time.       

8.  
   Termination :        UO may terminate your services as
follows:       

a)  
  The Company may terminate this Agreement for cause at any time without advance notice.  Cause  will include, but not be limited to:         

(i)  
  your material failure to perform your duties;         

(ii)  
  your material failure to comply with Company policies, including, without limitation those set forth in the UO Code of Conduct, and the Universal Studios, Inc. Discrimination and
Sexual Harassment Policy, or         

b)  
  In the event you have suffered a permanent and total disability, which prevents your performance of your full-time duties under this Agreement, but in no case shall such right be
exercised until six (6) months from the date of the commencement of such disablement. Any temporary or partial disability shall not be deemed to prevent your performance of your usual full-time duties under this Agreement.
        
    During the term hereof, and so long as
you are not in breach of this Agreement:       

a)  
  UO shall reimburse you for your reasonable and necessary business expenses in accordance with its then prevailing policy (which shall include appropriate itemization and
substantiation of expenses incurred).         

b)  
  You shall be entitled to participate in the group insurance benefit plan.           
   Page 3 of 5   

c)  
  You shall be entitled to participate in the UO 401(k) retirement program upon terms and conditions as developed by UO.         

d)  
  You shall be entitled to participate in the UO incentive pay program at an established target of 25%; however, no specific amount is guaranteed.         

e)  
  You shall be eligible to participate in the Company sponsored  Highly Compensated Employees  supplemental benefit plan to our 401(k) plan.         

f)  
  You shall be entitled to participate in the UO Executive Automobile Plan which provides auto insurance for one vehicle and an annual auto allowance of approximately $7,500 which is
paid in 12 monthly installments of approximately $625.00.         

g)  
  You are eligible to participate in the Company sponsored stock option plan, as defined and applicable.        You further expressly agree and acknowledge that after expiration of the term hereunder you are entitled to no additional benefits not expressly set forth
herein, except as specifically provided under the benefit plan referred to herein and those benefit plans in which you may subsequently become a participant, and subject in all cases to the term and conditions of each such plan.       

10.  
   Assignment of Agreement :        Universal Orlando is a
joint venture formed by Universal Studios, Inc. and the Blackstone Organization. UO reserves the right, subject to the full discharge of its obligations hereunder, to assign this agreement, in its entirety, to such joint venture.       

11.  
   Conflict of Interest  :        Attached hereto and made
part of this Agreement are the Universal Orlando Code of Conduct and the Universal Studios, Inc. Corporate Policies - Discrimination and Sexual Harassment Policy. You confirm that you have read, understand and will comply with such Policies and
Codes of Conduct, and any amendments thereto which you receive, such amendments to be consistent with the tenor of the current Policies and Codes of Conduct and not in violation of public policy.      In addition to such Policies and Codes of Conduct, also attached hereto and made a part of this Agreement, is the Employee Confidentiality and
Non-Disclosure Agreement which provides provisions concerning protection of confidential and proprietary information owned by the Company, and protection against improper disclosure. In view of the fact that your position of service to UO is a
unique one of trust and confidence and, as a condition to your employment by UO under this Agreement, you agree to sign and  
       
   Page 4 of 5   

comply with each of the provisions of such Employee Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreement.       

12.  
   Termination of All Previous Agreements :        All prior
personal employment service agreements (whether written, oral or implied) between us, if any, are terminated as of the commencement of the term of this Agreement.       
    This Agreement shall be covered by
and construed and enforced in accordance with and subject to the laws of the State of Florida. Any legal proceeding brought by either party for enforcing any right or obligation under this Agreement, or arising under any matter pertaining to this
Agreement or the services to be rendered hereunder, shall be submitted without jury before any court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Florida. The parties hereto expressly waive trial by jury.       

14.  
   Entire Agreement; Modification; Severability :        This
Agreement sets forth the entire understanding between us; there are no terms, conditions, representations, warranties or covenants other than those contained herein. No term or provision of this Agreement may be amended, waived, released, discharged
or modified in any respect except in writing, signed by the appropriate party(ies). No waiver of any breach or default shall constitute a waiver of any other breach or default, whether of the same or any other term or condition. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provisions of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.       

Very truly yours,    

UNIVERSAL ORLANDO    

/s/ John R. Sprouls    
 
    John R. Sprouls     Executive Vice President     Human Resources, URG    

JRS:dlg    

AGREED:    

/s/ Ric Florell   

Ric Florell   

Date   

Page 5 of 5   

</EX-10.36>

<EX-10.37>
 5
 dex1037.htm
 EXTENSION OF EMPOLYMENT AGREEMENT OF J. MICHAEL HIGHTOWER DATED 9/29/2003

Extension of Empolyment Agreement of J. Michael Hightower dated 9/29/2003 

Exhibit 10.37       September 29, 2003      Mr. James Hightower      Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP      1000 Universal Studios Plaza      Orlando, Florida 32819      Dear Mr. Hightower:      Reference is made to the employment agreement between you and Universal Studios, Inc. ( Universal ), as assumed by Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP ( VUE  or the  Company ) dated April 25, 2002 (the
 Employment Agreement ), pursuant to which you have been employed in an executive capacity. The Company hereby exercises its option to extend the term of the Employment Agreement for two (2) years, commencing July 1, 2004 and
continuing through and including June 30, 2006. All references to either the Company or Universal in the Employment Agreement shall hereinafter refer to VUE.      Please acknowledge receipt of this notice by signing the attached copy and returning it to VUE. The original is for your records.        

Very truly yours,   

VIVENDI UNIVERSAL ENTERTAINMENT LLLP   

By  
     
    /s/ Crystal E. Wright    

RECEIPT ACKNOWLEDGED:   

/s/ James Hightower    
 
  JAMES HIGHTOWER   

Date   
    OP0875       Note: Option to be delivered to executive by 01/02/04.    

</EX-10.37>

<EX-10.38>
 6
 dex1038.htm
 EXTENSION OF EMPOLYMENT AGREEMENT OF J. MICHAEL HIGHTOWER DATED 8/28/2004

Extension of Empolyment Agreement of J. Michael Hightower dated 8/28/2004 

Exhibit 10.38      

      As of August 28, 2004      Mr. James Michael Hightower      Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP      1000 Universal Studios Plaza B-30      Orlando, FL 32819      Dear Mr. Hightower:      Reference is made to the employment agreement between you and Universal Studios, Inc., as assumed by
Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP (the  Company ) dated April 25, 2002 (the  Employment Agreement ), pursuant to which you have been employed in an executive capacity. It is now our mutual intention to amend the
Employment Agreement as follows:      1. Effective as of August 28, 2004, the current Term (as defined in Paragraph 1 of the Employment
Agreement) shall hereby be extended for a period through and including August 27, 2007.      2. Effective as of August 28, 2004, the
two-year option period as described in Paragraph 1(a)(ii) shall be hereby deleted and replaced with nothing.      3. Effective as of
August 28, 2004, the title of  Vice President, Project Management for Universal Creative  , as set forth in Paragraph 2 of the Employment Agreement, is hereby deleted and replaced with the title  Senior Vice President, Technical
Services for Universal Parks   Resorts .      4. Effective as of August 28, 2004, your Base Salary (as defined in Paragraph
3(a) of the Employment Agreement) will increase to an annual rate of Two Hundred Eighty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($280,000.00).      5.
Effective as of August 28, 2004, your target amount, pursuant to Paragraph 3(b) of the Employment Agreement, shall be thirty percent (30%) of your Base Salary and shall be pro-rated for fiscal year 2004.      6. All of the other provisions of the Employment Agreement, which are not modified hereunder, shall remain in full force and effect.      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing in the space provided below.        

Sincerely,   

Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP   

By:  
     
    /s/ Kenneth Kahrs    

AGREED AND ACCEPTED:  

/s/ James Hightower   

JAMES MICHAEL HIGHTOWER  
     
  Date   
    A00386   

</EX-10.38>

<EX-10.39>
 7
 dex1039.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT OPTION - RIC FLORELL

Employment Agreement Option - Ric Florell 

Exhibit 10.39       June 14, 2005      Ric Florell      6026 Jamestown Park
     Orlando, FL 32819       Re: Employment Agreement
  Option       Dear Ric:      Pursuant to your Employment
Agreement dated June 26, 2002 under which you have been employed as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Resort Revenue Operations, we hereby exercise our option to extend the term for two (2) years, commencing on December 4,
2005 and continuing until December 3, 2007 such employment to be on all the same terms and conditions presently applicable to your employment.      Please
acknowledge your receipt of this letter and agreement to the foregoing additional term of your Employment Agreement by signing and returning one original of this letter to me.      Very truly yours,      UNIVERSAL ORLANDO      By: John Sprouls      ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:       

/s/ Ric Florell   

Ric Florell   

Date   

</EX-10.39>

<EX-10.40>
 8
 dex1040.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT OF ROBERT GAULT DATED OCTOBER 12, 2004

Employment Agreement of Robert Gault dated October 12, 2004 

Exhibit 10.40       October 12, 2004      Mr. Robert Gault, Jr.      Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP      1000 Universal Studios Plaza      Orlando, FL 32819      Dear Mr. Gault:
     Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP ( VUE  or the  Company ) agrees to employ you and you agree to accept employment
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (the  Agreement ).      1.  Term . The term of this Agreement will
commence on May 1, 2005 and continue until April 30, 2008 (the  Term ), or unless earlier terminated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 4.      You agree and acknowledge that the Company has no obligation to extend the Term or to continue your employment after expiration of the Term, and you expressly acknowledge that no promises or understandings to the
contrary have been made or reached. You also agree and acknowledge that, should the Company choose to continue your employment for any period of time following the expiration of the Term (including any extensions thereof), your employment with the
Company will be  at will;  in other words, during any time following the expiration of the Term, the Company may terminate your employment at any time, with or without reason and with or without notice, and you may resign at any time, with
or without reason and with or without notice.       

Initials of employee    
    2.  Duties . You agree to be employed and perform your exclusive services for the Company or
one of its affiliates upon the terms and conditions of this Agreement. You will commence your services hereunder as President   Chief Executive Officer, Universal Orlando and you will perform the services requested from time to time by the
Board of Directors of the Company or a duly authorized officer of the Company (the  Board ).      3.  Compensation and Related
Matters .      (a)  Base Salary . For all services rendered under this Agreement, commencing May 1, 2005, the Company will pay you
base salary at an annual rate of Four Hundred Ninety Six Thousand Eight Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($496,800.00), payable in accordance with the Company s applicable payroll practices ( Base Salary ). Any higher Base Salary paid to
you subsequently will be deemed the annual rate for the purposes of this Agreement and will commence on the date determined by the Board.      The Company is not obligated to actually utilize your services, and payment as described in Paragraphs 4(a) and 4(c) will discharge the Company s obligation under this Agreement.      (b)  Bonus Compensation . You will be eligible to participate at a level appropriate to your position in the VUE Annual Incentive Plan or any plan
adopted in replacement thereof ( AIP ) as determined by the Board and in accordance with the plan s terms and conditions. Your         
   Page 1   

target amount for each fiscal year will be Two Hundred Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($200,000.00) and will be based upon a
measurement of performance against objectives in accordance with the AIP, as the same may be amended from time to time. You understand that AIP bonuses are not guaranteed compensation.      (c)  Long Term Incentive Plan . You will be eligible to participate at a level appropriate to your position in the Universal Orlando Long-Term
Growth Plan or any plan adopted in replacement thereof as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company and in accordance with the plan s terms and conditions.      (d)  Benefits . You will be entitled to participate in the benefit plans generally available to employees of the Company so long as the Company provides such plans and programs and subject to their terms and
conditions, except that you will not participate in any severance plan of the Company. Instead, subject to the requirements of this Paragraph, upon an involuntary termination of employment, as described in Paragraph 4(c), you will receive the
greater of (i) the amounts payable pursuant to Paragraph 4(c) or (ii) the basic amounts payable pursuant to the Company s severance plan or policy. If the amount described in clause (ii) above is greater than the amount described
in clause (i) above, in addition to the amounts payable under Paragraph 4(c), you will receive, in exchange for a release acceptable to the Company, a lump sum payment calculated by the Company in its sole discretion equal to the difference
between the amounts described in clauses (i) and (ii) of the previous sentence. You will receive this lump sum payment as soon as practical after the release has been fully executed by you and the Company. In addition, you will be entitled
to participate in the VUE Executive Auto Allowance Program only so long as VUE provides such plans and programs and in accordance with the plans terms and conditions.      (e)  Expense Reimbursements/Deductions . During your employment, the Company will reimburse you for your reasonable and necessary business expenses in accordance with its then prevailing policy for similarly
situated employees (which will include appropriate itemization and substantiation of expenses incurred). The Company is entitled to deduct from monies payable and reimbursable to you by the Company, all sums that you owe the Company or any of its
affiliates at any time.      (f)  Withholding . The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such federal, state
or local taxes as will be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable laws or regulation.      4.  Compensation Upon Certain
Termination Events .      (a)  Compensation Payable . Should your employment with the Company terminate, you will be entitled to the
amounts and benefits shown on the following table, subject to Paragraphs 4(b) through 4(e). In the event of such termination, and except for payments noted in this Paragraph 4, the Company will have no further obligations to you under this
Agreement.         
   Page 2   

Termination For Cause    
     
     Involuntary Termination    
     
     Disability    
     
     Death     
 
  Payment of (1) any accrued but unpaid Base Salary due you through termination, and (2) other unpaid amounts then due you under Company benefit plans or programs.  
     
  Same as for termination for Cause except that your Base Salary and benefits (other than benefits provided under (1) any plan qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, (2)
any nonqualified pension plan and (3) any stock or cash incentive based plan) will also continue through the expiration of the Term, provided you meet the requirements in Paragraph 5 and subject to the terms and conditions of each benefit
plan.  
     
  Same as for termination for Cause except that your Base Salary will continue until the earliest of (1) the 180   th    day following the start of your disability absence, or (2) your death and will be reduced by other Company-provided disability benefits available to
you.  
     
  Payment of (1) any accrued but unpaid Base Salary due you through your date of death, and (2) other unpaid amounts then due you under Company benefit plans or programs, except that those
payments will be made to your estate or legal representative, and your death benefits payable due to your death under Company employee benefit plans or programs will also be paid.   
    (b)  Termination for Cause . The Company may terminate your employment for cause at any time
without advance notice.  Cause  will include, but not be limited to:      (i) your material failure to perform your duties or your
material breach of the terms of this Agreement;      (ii) your material failure to comply with Company policies, as such policies may be
amended from time to time, including, without limitation, the General Electric Integrity Policies contained in  The Spirit and the Letter of Our Commitment , a copy of which is enclosed herewith (a copy of the Personal Commitment
Acknowledgement Form is also attached hereto as Schedule 1 for your signature), the NBC Universal Policy on Harassment and the Employment Data Protection Standards, copies of which are attached as Schedule 2 to this Agreement; or         
   Page 3   

(iii) your conviction of a felony or crime of moral turpitude.      (c)  Involuntary Termination . The Company may terminate your employment other than for Cause or on account of Disability, as defined in Paragraph
4(d), in which case you will receive continuation of Base Salary and benefits as specified in Paragraph 4(a); provided the Company will retain a right of offset against the amounts payable to you under this Paragraph and will be entitled to reduce
the amount of any compensation and benefits payable to you under this Agreement by the amount of compensation and benefits of any kind earned or received by you from any third party from the date of termination through the end of the payment term
pursuant to this Paragraph. You agree that you will have no rights or remedies in the event of your termination without Cause other than those set forth in this Agreement.      (d)  Termination for Disability . The Company may terminate your employment on account of a Disability and the payments required by Paragraph 4(a)
will be made. You will be deemed to have a  Disability  if you are incapacitated by a physical or mental condition, illness or injury which has prevented you from being able to perform the essential duties of your position under this
Agreement in a satisfactory fashion for all of a consecutive 180-day period.      (e)  Death . If you die while employed under this
Agreement, the payments required by Paragraph 4(a) will be made.      5.  Covenants .      (a)  Acknowledgment . You acknowledge that you currently possess or will acquire secret, confidential, or proprietary information or trade secrets
concerning the operations, future plans, or business methods of the Company or its affiliates. You agree that the Company would be severely damaged if you misused or disclosed this information. To prevent this harm, you are making the promises set
forth in this Paragraph. You acknowledge that the provisions of this Paragraph are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company and that any violation of such provisions would result in irreparable injury to the
Company. In the event of a violation of the provisions of this Paragraph, you further agree that the Company will, in addition to all other remedies available to it, be entitled to seek equitable relief by way of injunction and any other legal or
equitable remedies.      (b)  Promise Not to Disclose . You will hold in a fiduciary capacity, for the benefit of the Company, all
confidential or proprietary information, knowledge and data of the Company, which you may acquire, learn, obtain or develop during your employment by the Company. Further, you will not, during the Term or at any time thereafter, directly or
indirectly use, communicate or divulge for your own benefit or for the benefit of another any such information, knowledge or data other than (i) as required by the Company or (ii) as required by law or as ordered by a court or
(iii) with respect to matters that are generally known to the public. You make the same commitments with respect to the secret, confidential or proprietary information, knowledge and data of affiliates, customers, contractors and others with
whom the Company has a business relationship or to whom the Company or its affiliates owe a duty of confidentiality. The information covered by this protection includes, but is not limited to, matters of a business or strategic nature such as
information about costs and profits, projections, personnel information, reengineering, records, customer lists, contact persons, customer data,         
   Page 4   

software, sales data, possible new business ventures and/or expansion plans or matters of a creative nature, including
without limitation, matters regarding ideas of a literary, creative, musical or dramatic nature, or regarding any form of product produced, distributed or acquired by the Company ( Company Information ). Company Information will be
considered and kept as the private, proprietary and confidential information of the Company except within the Company as required to perform services, and may not be divulged (A) without the express written authorization of the Company or
(B) unless required by law or ordered by a court or (C) unless the Company Information is generally known to the public. You further agree that you will neither publicly disclose the terms of this Agreement nor publicly discuss the Company
in a manner that tends to portray the Company in an unfavorable light.      (c)  Promise Not to Engage In Certain Activities . You will
not at any time during your employment by the Company or the period of payment pursuant to Paragraph 4 be or become (i) interested or engaged in any manner, directly or indirectly, either alone or with any person, firm or corporation now
existing or hereafter created, in any business which is or may be competitive with the business of the Company and its affiliates or (ii) directly or indirectly a stockholder or officer, director, agent, consultant or employee of, or in any
manner associated with, or aid or abet, or give information or financial assistance to, any such business. The provisions of this Paragraph will not be deemed to prohibit your purchase or ownership, as a passive investment, of not more than five
percent (5%) of the outstanding capital stock of any corporation whose stock is publicly traded.      (d)  Promise to Return
Property . All records, files, lists, drawings, documents, models, equipment, property, computer, software or intellectual property relating to the Company s business in whatever form (including electronic) will be returned to the Company
upon the termination of your employment, whether such termination is at your or the Company s request.      (e)  Promise Not to
Solicit . You will not during (i) the period of your employment by the Company, (ii) the period of payment pursuant to Paragraph 4 or (iii) the period ending one (1) year after the later of the periods described in the
previous clauses (i) or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any employees, consultants, contractors or representatives of the Company (or those of any of its affiliates) to stop working for, contracting with or representing the Company or any
of its affiliates or to work for, contract with or represent any of the Company s (or its affiliates ) competitors.      (f)
 Company Ownership . The results and proceeds of your services hereunder, including, without limitation, any works of authorship resulting from your services during your employment with the Company and/or any of the Company s affiliates
and any works in progress, will be works-made-for hire and the Company will be deemed the sole owner throughout the universe of any and all rights of whatsoever nature therein, whether or not now or hereafter known, existing, contemplated,
recognized or developed, with the right to use the same in perpetuity in any manner the Company determines in its sole discretion without any further payment to you whatsoever. If, for any reason, any of such results and proceeds will not legally be
a work-for-hire and/or there are any rights which do not accrue to the Company under the preceding sentence, then you hereby irrevocably assign and agree to assign any and all of your right, title and interest thereto, including, without limitation,
any and all copyrights, patents, trade secrets, trademarks and/or other rights of whatsoever nature therein, whether or         
   Page 5   

not now or hereafter known, existing, contemplated, recognized or developed, to the Company, and the Company will have
the right to use the same in perpetuity throughout the universe in any manner the Company determines without any further payment to you whatsoever. You will, from time to time, as may be requested by the Company, do any and all things which the
Company may deem useful or desirable to establish or document the Company s exclusive ownership of any and all rights in any such results and proceeds, including, without limitation, the execution of appropriate copyright and/or patent
applications or assignments. To the extent you have any rights in the results and proceeds of your services that cannot be assigned in the manner described above, you unconditionally and irrevocably waive the enforcement of such rights. This
Paragraph is subject to and will not be deemed to limit, restrict, or constitute any waiver by the Company of any rights of ownership to which the Company may be entitled by operation of law by virtue of the Company being your employer.   
  (g)  Prior Restrictions . You represent that you are free to enter into this Agreement and are not restricted in any manner from performing under
this Agreement by any prior agreement, commitment, or understanding with any third party. If you have acquired confidential or proprietary information in the course of your prior employment or as a consultant, you will fully comply with any duties
not to disclose such information then applicable to you during the Term.      6.  Services Unique . You recognize that your services
hereunder are of a special, unique, unusual, extraordinary and intellectual character, giving them a peculiar value, the loss of which the Company cannot be reasonably or adequately compensated for in damages. In the event of a breach of this
Agreement by you (particularly, but without limitation, with respect to the provisions hereof relating to the exclusivity of your services), the Company will, in addition to all other remedies available to it, be entitled to seek equitable relief by
way of injunction and any other legal or equitable remedies. This provision will not be construed as a waiver of the rights which the Company may have for damages under this Agreement or otherwise, and all of the Company s rights and remedies
will be unrestricted.      7.  Notices . All notices and other communications hereunder will be in writing and will be given by hand
delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:       If to
Employee :      At the address indicated on the first page hereof.       If to the Company :      Vivendi Universal
Entertainment LLLP      100 Universal City Plaza      Universal City, California 91608      Attention: Executive Vice President, Human Resources      or to such other address as either party will have furnished to the other in writing. Notice and communications will be effective when actually received by the
addressee.      8.  Assignment/Affiliated Corporations . The Company will have the right to assign this Agreement to any affiliate or
successor of the Company. You acknowledge and agree that all of your covenants and         
   Page 6   

obligations to the Company, as well as the rights of the Company hereunder, will run in favor of and will be enforceable
by the Company, its affiliates and their successors.      9.  Arbitration of Disputes .      (a)  Arbitrable Disputes . You and the Company agree to use final and binding arbitration to resolve any dispute each party may have with the other
or any affiliate relating to this Agreement or your employment with and/or termination from the Company (an  Arbitrable Dispute ). An Arbitrable Dispute includes, without limitation, any dispute about the validity, interpretation, or
effect of this Agreement, or alleged violations of it, and further including, without limitation, any and all claims for compensation, breach of implied contract, tort violations and claims arising out of any alleged discrimination, harassment, or
retaliation, including, but not limited to, those covered by the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (or similar state statute), the 1964 Civil Rights Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 2000e  et seq. , the Age Discrimination in Employment Act,
and the Americans With Disabilities Act.      (b)  Exclusive Forum . Arbitration in this manner will be the exclusive forum for any
Arbitrable Dispute. THE PARTIES HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHTS THEY MAY HAVE TO TRIAL BY JUDGE OR JURY IN REGARD TO AN ARBITRABLE DISPUTE. Should you or the Company attempt to resolve an Arbitrable Dispute by any method other than arbitration pursuant to
this Paragraph (excluding any initial oral or written settlement negotiations by either party), the responding party will be entitled to recover from the initiating party all damages, expenses, and attorneys  fees incurred as a result of that
breach.      (c)  Injunctive Relief . Notwithstanding Paragraphs 9(a) and 9(b), due to the irreparable harm that would result from certain
actual or threatened violations of this Agreement, where either party is seeking only injunctive relief (e.g., a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction or permanent injunction), such party may file suit or bring an application for such
injunctive relief in any federal or state court of competent jurisdiction without violating this Agreement and such suit for injunctive relief will not be considered an Arbitrable Dispute.      (d)  The Arbitration . Arbitration will take place in Orlando, Florida before a single experienced employment arbitrator licensed to practice law in
Florida and selected in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American Arbitration Association. The provisions of Section 1283.05 of the California Code of Civil Procedure regarding the taking of
discovery in arbitration proceedings will apply to any such arbitration. In any such arbitration proceeding, any hearing must be transcribed by a certified court reporter. The arbitrator may not modify, change or disregard any lawful terms of this
Agreement in any way or issue an award that is contrary to the law of Florida. At the conclusion of the arbitration, the arbitrator shall issue a written ruling consistent with Florida law setting forth the essential findings of fact and conclusions
of law on which the arbitration award is based. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding and enforceable in any court of competent jurisdiction.      (e)  Fees and Expenses . Each party will pay the fees of their respective attorneys, the expenses of their witnesses and experts, cost of any record or transcript of the arbitration, and any other expenses
connected with the arbitration that such party might be expected to incur         
   Page 7   

had the dispute been subject to resolution in court. The Company shall pay all costs and expenses of the arbitration that
you would not otherwise have incurred if the dispute had been adjudicated in a court of law, rather than through arbitration; such as the arbitrator s fees and any arbitration association administrative fees or filing fees in excess of the
maximum court filing fee in the jurisdiction in which the arbitration is commenced.      (f)  Confidentiality . All proceedings and all
documents prepared in connection with any Arbitrable Dispute shall be confidential and, unless otherwise required by law, the subject matter thereof shall not be disclosed to any person other than the parties to the proceedings, their counsel,
witnesses and experts, the arbitrator, and, if involved, the court and court staff.      10.  Miscellaneous . No provisions of this
Agreement may be amended, modified, waived, or discharged except by a written document signed by you and a duly authorized officer of the Company. A waiver of any conditions or provisions of this Agreement in a given instance will not be deemed a
waiver of such conditions or provisions at any other time. The validity, interpretation, construction, and performance of this Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of Florida without regard to its conflicts of law principles. This
Agreement will be binding upon, and will inure to the benefit of, you and your estate and the Company and any successor thereto, but neither this Agreement nor any rights arising under it may be assigned or pledged by you.      11.  Validity . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provisions of this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other
provisions of this Agreement, which will remain in full force and effect.      12.  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in one
or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original, but all of which together will constitute the same instrument.      13.
 Entire Agreement . This Agreement sets forth the entire understanding between you and the Company. All oral or written agreements or representations, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement are set forth in
this Agreement except that the terms of any applicable stock option agreement still apply. All prior employment agreements, understandings and obligations (whether written, oral, express or implied) between you and the Company, if any, are
terminated as of the commencement date of the Term and are superseded by this Agreement.       

Very truly yours,    

Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP    

By:  
     
    /s/ Kenneth Kahrs    

Name :  
     
  Kenneth Kahrs   

Title:  
     
  Senior VP of Human Resources   
 
    ACCEPTED AND AGREED:   

/s/ Robert Gault, Jr.     ROBERT GAULT, JR.   

Page 8   

</EX-10.40>

<EX-12.1>
 9
 dex121.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratios of earnings to fixed charges 

Exhibit 12.1        Universal City Florida Holding Co. I and Universal City Florida Holding Co. II and Subsidiaries        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges        

</EX-12.1>

<EX-14.1>
 10
 dex141.htm
 CODE OF ETHICS

Code of Ethics 

Exhibit 14.1        

POLICY:   
      
  Universal Orlando (the  Company ) values its reputation for honesty and integrity and, accordingly, directs all its employees to adhere to the highest moral, legal and ethical
standards in the conduct of their business. The Company s employees, officers and directors ( Employees ) are not permitted to achieve results by unethical or illegal methods, including knowingly engaging in otherwise prohibited
activities through third parties such as the employee s family members or other organizations.   

The standards set forth in this Code of Conduct ( Code ) are designed to promote compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations, as well as adherence to the
highest ethical principles. This Code sets out a set of basic principles and guidelines to guide Employees regarding the minimum requirements expected of them: however, this Code does not provide a detailed description of all Employee policies. This
Code supplements our existing Employee handbooks and policies.   

It is the responsibility of all persons at the Company to maintain a work environment that fosters fairness, respect and integrity; and it is our Company policy to be lawful, highly
principled and socially responsible in all our business practices. All Employees are expected to become familiar with this Code and to apply it in the daily performance of her job responsibilities. All Employees of the Company are responsible for
complying with this Code.   

All Employees are expected to seek the advice of their supervisor, manager or other appropriate persons within the Company when questions arise about the issues discussed in this Code and any
other issues that may implicate the ethical standards or integrity of the Company or any of its Employees. Compliance procedures are set forth below under  Compliance.    

PURPOSE:   
      
  To establish a consistent policy for conducting the Company s business in a legal and ethical manner and preventing possible conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of
interest.   

CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:   
      
  A  conflict of interest  exists when an Employee s private interest interferes in any way with the interests of the Company.   

A conflict situation can arise when an employee takes action or has interests that may make it difficult to perform his or her Company work objectively or effectively. Conflicts of interest
also arise when an Employee or a member of his or her family receives improper personal benefits (including personal loans, services or payment for services that the person is performing in the course of Company benefit) as a result of his or her
positioning the Company, or gains personal enrichment through access to confidential information.   

Conflicts of interest can arise in many common situations, despite one s best interest to avoid them. Employees are encouraged to seek clarification of, and to discuss questions about,
potential conflicts of interest with the Company s Executive Vice President, Human Resources. Any Employee who becomes aware of a conflict or potential conflict should bring it to the attention of a supervisor, manager or other appropriate
person within the Company, in accordance with the procedures set below under  Compliance.    

DISCLOSURE  
      
  All financial statements and books, records and accounts of the Company must accurately reflect transactions and events and conform both to required legal requirements and accounting principles,
and also to the Company s system of internal accounting. Each Employee has the responsibility to ensure that false or intentionally misleading entries are not made by him or her, or anyone who reports to him or her, in the Company s
accounting records. Regardless of whether reporting is required by law, dishonest reporting by the Company or to organizations or people outside the Company, is strictly prohibited. All Employees that are responsible for financial or accounting
matters are also required to ensure the full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in all periodic reports filed with or submitted to the Security Exchange Commission by the Company or in other public communications made by the
Company. Any Employee in possession of material information must take steps to ensure that it is disclosed to those responsible for the preparation of the Company s periodic reports and other public disclosures. This commitment and
responsibility extends to the highest levels of the Company s organization, including its President, Chief Financial Officer and Controller.   

GENERAL ADMINISTRATION:  
      
  The Administration Department is responsible for the administration of this policy and for receiving questions and notification of violations.   

1.       Prohibited Activities  - Examples of activities prohibited by Universal Orlando include, but are
not limited to, the following:    

A.     The appropriation or conversion of Company property or services to one s own personal
benefit.    

B.     The submission of fraudulent expense reports.    

C.     The receiving, offering, promising, soliciting, authorizing, or making of any commercial bribe or
kickback.    

D.     Receiving or soliciting payment for confidential information.    

E.     The giving of Company political contributions without the prior authorization of the Universal Orlando office
of Government Relations or Political Action Committee.    

F.      The unauthorized disclosure of confidential or proprietary information or the use or dissemination of
such information    

in a manner which may be detrimental to the Company s interest.    

G.     Concurrent employment at a competing Company without prior authorization from the Company s Executive
Vice President, Human Resources.    

H.     Service as a director on the board of directors of any outside organization (other than charities, schools and
service organizations), without the prior authorization of senior management (not applicable to the Company s outside directors).    

I.       The acquisition or disposition of any property or interests on the basis of confidential or
proprietary information obtained through the Company or advising third parties to trade in related Company stocks or the stock of other companies on the basis of non-public information.    

J.      The ownership interest in, or acting in any capacity for, any supplier, contractor or other enterprise
with whom the Company does business.    

K.     The influence of any decision on behalf of the Company regarding any vendor, contractor or other business when
the Employee s relatives own an interest in such an enterprise doing business with the Company.    

L.     Ownership of an interest, other than as a minority shareholder in, or acting in any capacity for, any
enterprise in competition with the Company.    

M.    The appropriation to the Employee or diversion to others of any business opportunity in areas where the Company
conducts a business or enterprise.    

N.     Unauthorized use of the Company s name as representation in any organization in which the Employee
participates.    

O.     Any activities that constitute a conflict of interest.    

P.      Violating the Company s sexual harassment policy.    

Q.     Violating the Company s policy regarding confidential information.    

2.       Acceptance of Gifts     

A.     Employees are prohibited from accepting gifts, items of entertainment or promotional items having more than
nominal value from public officials or persons with whom the Company does business or is pursuing a business relationship, including vendors, without prior authorization from the Employee s department head (but at least director level). Nominal
value is defined as $150.    

B.     Unsolicited gifts that are shared with an Employee s department (such as holiday gift baskets) shall
not result in a violation of this policy.    

C.     Employee participation in closing dinners or other celebratory events hosted and paid for by a vendor, firm or
other organization of which the Company is a client requires approval of senior management ( executive or Senior Vice President of the department or division).    

3.       Compliance     

A.     Each Employee has a duty to disclose any of his or her own activities which he or she feels raise, or to a
reasonable person would raise, questions as to a possible violation of this Code. Such disclosure must be reported to the Employee s immediate supervisor for review prior to the Employee engaging in the conduct in question. The supervisor will
review the proposed activity with the appropriate senior level management, and, in turn, advise the Employee whether a violation exists.    

B.     Each Employee also has the duty to immediately report a possible violation of this Code to his or her
immediate supervisor or to the President, Chief Financial Officer or Executive Vice President, Human Resources.    

1.      The supervisor has a responsibility to immediately inform the appropriate senior level management
executives as to the allegations of possible Code violations.    

2.      It is the responsibility of senior management to conduct a review of such matters and report its
findings to its internal auditors.    

4.       Violation  - A violation of the Code may result in disciplinary action, up to an including
termination of employment, the Company s seeking legal action for any financial loss it may have suffered, and/or criminal prosecution.    

5.       Waiver or Amendment  - Any change or waiver of this Code for executive officers (including our
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller or Principle Accounting Officer) may be made only by the Park Advisory Board or a committee thereof and will be promptly disclosed as required by law or stock exchange
regulation.    

</EX-14.1>

<EX-14.2>
 11
 dex142.htm
 GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY CODE OF CONDUCT

General Electric Company Code of Conduct 

Exhibit 14.2       Always with unyielding integrity       The
Spirit   The Letter      

CONTENTS        

STATEMENT OF INTEGRITY   
      
  1   

THE SPIRIT   THE LETTER:   

GUIDING THE WAY WE DO BUSINESS   
      
  2   

GE CODE OF CONDUCT   
      
  3   

YOUR PERSONAL COMMITMENT   
      
  4   

WHO MUST FOLLOW GE COMPLIANCE POLICIES   
      
  5   

WHAT EMPLOYEES MUST DO   
      
  6   

WHAT LEADERS MUST DO   
      
  7   

RAISE YOUR VOICE:   

YOUR OBLIGATION TO RAISE INTEGRITY CONCERNS   
      
  8   

HOW TO RAISE AN INTEGRITY CONCERN   
      
  9   

WHAT HAPPENS WHEN AN INTEGRITY CONCERN IS RAISED   
      
  10   

PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS   
      
  11   

BUSINESS POLICIES AND PROCEDURES   
      
  12   

THE SPIRIT   THE LETTER POLICIES   
      
  13   

WORKING WITH CUSTOMERS   SUPPLIER   
      
  14   
 
    Improper Payments   
      
  16   
 
    Supplier Relationships   
      
  18   
 
    International Trade Controls   
      
  22   
 
    Money Laundering Prevention   
      
  24   
 
    Privacy   
      
  26   

GOVERNMENT BUSINESS   
      
  28   
 
    Working with Governments   
      
  30   

COMPETING GLOBALLY   
      
  32   
 
    Complying with Competition Laws   
      
  34   

IN THE GE COMMUNITY   
      
  36   
 
    Fair Employment Practices   
      
  38   
 
    Environment, Health   Safety   
      
  42   
 
    Security   Crisis Management   
      
  44   

PROTECTING GE ASSETS   
      
  46   
 
    Intellectual Property   
      
  48   
 
    Controllership   
      
  50   
 
    Conflicts of Interest   
      
  54   
 
    Insider Trading   Stock Tipping   
      
  56   

INDEX   
      
  58   

APPENDIX: WHICH LAW APPLIES   
      
  59   
    This booklet is just an introduction to GE compliance policies. The full text of those policies and many other
resources are located at  integrity.ge.com .   

Statement of integrity       For more than 125 years, GE has demonstrated an unwavering commitment to performance with integrity. At the same time we have expanded into new businesses and new regions and built a great record of sustained growth, we have built a
worldwide reputation for lawful and ethical conduct.      This reputation has never been stronger. In several surveys of CEOs, GE has been named the
world s most respected and admired company. We have been ranked first for integrity and governance.      But none of that matters if each of us does not
make the right decisions and take the right actions. At a time when many people are more cynical than ever about business, GE must seek to earn this high level of trust every day, employee by employee.      This is why I ask each person in the GE community to make a personal commitment to follow our Code of Conduct. This set of GE policies on key integrity issues guides us
in upholding our ethical commitment. All GE employees must comply not only with the letter of these policies, but also their spirit.      If you have a
question or concern about what is proper conduct for you or anyone else, promptly raise the issue with your manager, a GE ombudsperson or through one of the many other channels the Company makes available to you. Do not allow anything   not
 making the numbers,  competitive instincts or even a direct order from a superior   to compromise your commitment to integrity.      GE leaders
are also responsible not only for their own actions but for fostering a culture in which compliance with GE policy and applicable law is at the core of business-specific activities. Leaders must address employees  concerns about appropriate
conduct promptly and with care and respect.      There is no conflict between excellent financial performance and high standards of governance and compliance
  in fact, the two are mutually reinforcing. As we focus on becoming the preeminent growth company of the 21st century, we must recognize that only one kind of performance will maintain our reputation, increase our customers  confidence in
us and our products and services, and enable us to continue to grow, and that is performance with integrity       

Jeffrey R. Immelt      Chairman of the Board   Chief Executive Officer     June
2005    

2    The Spirit   The Letter   

The Spirit   The Letter:        Guiding the way we do business       Every day, everyone at GE has the power to influence our company s reputation
  everywhere we do business. The Spirit   The Letter helps to ensure that, after more than 125 years, we still conduct our affairs with unyielding integrity.      For well over a century, GE employees have worked hard to uphold the highest standards of ethical business conduct. We seek to go beyond simply obeying the law   we embrace the spirit of integrity.      GE s Code of Conduct articulates that spirit by setting out general principles of conduct everywhere, every day and by every GE employee.     

GE Code of Conduct       Obey the applicable laws and regulations governing our business conduct worldwide.      Be honest, fair and trustworthy in all your GE activities and
relationships.      Avoid all conflicts of interest between work and personal affairs.      Foster an atmosphere in which fair employment practices extend to every member of the diverse GE community.      Strive to
create a safe workplace and to protect the environment.      Through leadership at all levels, sustain a culture where ethical conduct is recognized, valued
and exemplified by all employees.   

4    The Spirit   The Letter   

Your Personal Commitment       You will be asked to acknowledge your awareness that every GE employee must follow The Spirit   The Letter Policies and raise concerns about possible violations of law or policy with a GE manager, company legal counsel, GE auditor,
GE ombudsperson or other GE compliance specialist.      For the complete text of policies, visit the GE integrity Web site:  integrity.ge.com. 

Who must follow GE compliance policies        GE DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.        SUBSIDIARIES AND CONTROLLED AFFILIATES  Entities in which GE owns more
than 50 percent of the voting rights, or has the right to control the entity, are required to adopt and follow GE compliance policies.       NON-CONTROLLED
AFFILIATES       Non-controlled affiliates should be encouraged to adopt and follow GE compliance policies.       THIRD PARTIES REPRESENTING GE       GE employees working with third
parties, such as consultants, agents, sales representatives, distributors and independent contractors, must:       

require these parties to agree to comply with relevant aspects of GE s compliance policies         

provide these parties with education and information about policy requirements         

take action, up to and including terminating a contract, after learning that a third party failed to abide by GE s compliance policies.     

6    The Spirit   The Letter   

What employees must do       All employees can contribute to GE s culture of compliance by understanding GE s policies, embracing GE s commitment to integrity and acting to enforce compliance and avoid violations.      Employee responsibilities are as follows:       UNDERSTAND GE POLICIES

Gain a basic understanding of the policy requirements summarized in this booklet.         

Learn the details of policies relevant to your job.         

Check  integrity.ge.com  for the complete and up-to-date policies.         

Go to your manager, company legal counsel or other GE resources with any questions about the policies.         RAISE YOUR CONCERNS        

Promptly raise any concerns about potential violations of any GE policy.         

Understand the different channels for raising integrity concerns: ombudsperson, manager, GE lawyer, GE auditor or other compliance resource.         

If a concern you raise is not resolved, pursue the issue! Raise it through another of GE s channels.         

Cooperate in GE investigations related to integrity concerns.     

What leaders must do       A leader must: create a culture of compliance in which employees understand their responsibilities and feel comfortable raising concerns without fear of retaliation; encourage ethical conduct and compliance with the law by personally
leading compliance efforts; consider compliance efforts when evaluating and rewarding employees; and ensure that employees understand that business results are never more important than ethical conduct and compliance with GE policies.      Leaders must also take the following steps to build an infrastructure to prevent, detect and respond to compliance issues:       PREVENT COMPLIANCE ISSUES        

Identify business compliance risks.         

Ensure that processes, tailored to address your particular risk areas, are communicated and implemented.         

Provide education on GE policies and applicable law to employees and (where appropriate) board members and third parties.         

Commit adequate resources to your business s compliance program.         DETECT COMPLIANCE ISSUES        

Implement control measures, such as  dashboards  and  scorecards,  to detect heightened compliance risks and/or violations.         

Promote an effective ombudsperson system.         

Ensure that periodic compliance reviews are conducted, with the assistance of business compliance leaders and/ or the Corporate Audit Staff.         RESPOND TO COMPLIANCE ISSUES        

Take prompt corrective action to fix identified compliance weaknesses.         

Take appropriate disciplinary action.         

Consult with GE legal counsel and make appropriate disclosures to regulators and law enforcement authorities.     

8    The Spirit   The Letter   

Raise Your Voice:        Your obligation to raise integrity concerns       Raising an integrity concern protects the GE community: our company, our colleagues and our
stakeholders.      If you have a concern about compliance with GE policy, you have a responsibility to raise that concern.       RAISE CONCERNS EARLY.       The longer we wait to address a concern, the
worse it may become.       YOU MAY REMAIN ANONYMOUS.       However, if you identify yourself, we are able to follow up with you and provide feedback.       CONFIDENTIALITY IS RESPECTED.       Your identity and the information you provide will be shared only on a  need-to-know  basis with those responsible for resolving the concern.       RETALIATION VIOLATES GE POLICY.       GE absolutely prohibits retaliation
against anyone for raising or helping to address an integrity concern. Retaliation is grounds for discipline up to and including dismissal.       You can
raise a concern orally or in writing.        If you prefer, you can do it anonymously.    

How to raise an integrity concern       GE offers several channels for raising concerns. Use the channel that is most comfortable for you.       WITHIN YOUR BUSINESS
      Generally, your supervisor or manager will be in the best position to resolve an integrity concern quickly. However, your direct supervisor is not your
only option. Other resources include:       

Your compliance leader or auditor         

Company legal counsel         

Next level of management         

Your business ombudsperson or integrity helpline (listed at  integrity.ge.com )         GE CORPORATE OMBUDSPERSON       The GE Ombudsperson process allows you to voice your integrity questions and concerns,
anonymously if you choose, and you will receive a response.      P.O. Box 911      Fairfield, CT 06430      U.S.A.      800-227-5003 (U.S.A. only) or      8*229-2603 or      (1)
203-373-2603       ombudsperson@corporate.ge.com        GE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS       You may report concerns about GE s accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, as well as other concerns, to
the Board of Directors or the Audit Committee.      GE Board of Directors      General Electric Company (W2E)      3135 Easton Turnpike      Fairfield, CT 06828 U.S.A.      800-417-0575 (U.S.A. only)      (1) 203-373-2652       directors@corporate.ge.com        Speak up, ask questions, get answers. If your concern is not addressed, raise it to one of the other channels.    

10  The Spirit   The Letter   

What happens when an integrity concern is raised       Concerns about compliance with GE policy will be investigated. GE s investigation process includes:       

1.   
   ASSIGNING AN INVESTIGATION TEAM         Experts with the
right knowledge and objectivity are assigned to investigate.       

2.   
   CONDUCTING AN INVESTIGATION         The team determines
the facts through interviews and/or review of documents.       

3.   
   CORRECTIVE ACTION         If necessary, the team
recommends corrective actions to the appropriate managers for implementation.       
    The person raising the concern receives
feedback on the outcome.   

Penalties for violations       Employees and leaders who violate the spirit or letter of GE s policies are subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. Misconduct that may result in discipline includes:       

Violating GE policy         

Requesting others to violate GE policy         

Failure to promptly raise a known or suspected violation of GE policy         

Failure to cooperate in GE investigations of possible policy violations         

Retaliation against another employee for reporting an integrity concern         

Failure to demonstrate leadership and diligence to ensure compliance with GE policies and law         GE absolutely        prohibits retaliation    

12  The Spirit   The Letter   

Business policies and procedures       Your business may issue its own policies and procedures.      You must follow those policies and procedures in addition to
those described in this guide.       IMPORTANT This guide and the policies described in it are not an employment contract. GE does not create any contractual
rights by issuing this guide or the policies.    

Working With Customers   Suppliers      Government Business      Competing Globally      In the GE Community      Protecting GE Assets
      The Spirit   The Letter Policies    

16  The Spirit   The Letter   

Improper Payments        WHAT TO KNOW       An improper payment to gain advantage in any situation is never acceptable and exposes you and GE to possible criminal
prosecution. GE expressly prohibits improper payments in all business dealings, in every country around the world, with both governments and the private sector.      Improper payments should not be confused with reasonable and limited expenditures for gifts, business entertainment and customer travel and living expenses directly related to the promotion of products or services or the execution of a
contract. These payments are acceptable, subject to specific GE corporate and business guidelines.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 15  It depends on many factors, including whether your customer is a government official, the local law, the customer s policies, your
business s guidelines and other facts. You must consult with GE counsel and your manager to determine whether the trip is acceptable.     

WHAT TO DO        BEFORE GIVING A GIFT,  engaging in customer entertainment or reimbursing customer travel expenses, make sure you understand applicable legal requirements, the customer s own rules and GE corporate and business guidelines.
      MAKE SURE RECORDS OF SUCH EXPENDITURES  accurately reflect the true nature of the transaction.       NEVER OFFER A BUSINESS COURTESY,  such as a gift, contribution or entertainment, under circumstances that might create the appearance of an impropriety.
      NEVER OFFER, PROMISE, PAY OR AUTHORIZE  anything of value (such as money, goods or services) to a government official or employee of a customer to
obtain or retain an improper advantage.       NEVER GIVE A GRATUITY  or other payment to government officials or employees to expedite a routine
administrative action without fully disclosing it to the GE National Executive or GE legal counsel. Some national laws that prohibit bribery outside that nation include an exception for  facilitating payments  to expedite a routine
administrative action to which a person is otherwise entitled. These payments are often illegal under local anti-bribery laws, and GE strongly discourages them. Make sure you understand the difference between a bribe   corruptly giving someone
else a thing of value in exchange for exercising discretion in your favor   and a facilitating payment, which involves the payment of a small amount of money to expedite a routine action to which you are entitled.       NEVER CONTRIBUTE COMPANY FUNDS  or other company assets for political purposes in the United States without the prior approval of GE s Vice President for
Government Relations. Never contribute company funds or other company assets for political purposes outside the United States without the approval of both GE s Vice President for Government Relations and GE s Vice President for
International Law and Policy.       REQUIRE ANY PERSON OR FIRM WHO REPRESENTS GE  (such as a consultant, agent, sales representative, distributor or
contractor) to comply with this policy and related laws.       FOLLOW YOUR BUSINESS S DUE DILIGENCE PROCEDURES  when selecting persons or firms to
represent GE.       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR        BACKGROUND
INFORMATION  about existing or potential third-party representatives that indicates:       

allegations of improper business practices         

reputation for bribes         

family or other relationship that could improperly influence the decision of a customer or government official         ANY DEMAND  to receive a commission payment before the announcement of an award decision       ANY SUGGESTION TO DIRECT GE BUSINESS  through a specific representative or partner due to a  special relationship        ANY REQUEST  to make a payment in a country or to a name not related to the transaction.       A COMMISSION  that is disproportionate to
the services provided       Working With Customers   Suppliers       FOR MORE IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

18  The Spirit   The Letter   

Supplier Relationships        WHAT TO KNOW       GE s relationships with suppliers are based on lawful, efficient and fair practices. We expect our suppliers to obey the
laws that require them to treat workers fairly, provide a safe and healthy work environment and protect environmental quality. Following GE guidelines helps ensure that our supplier relationships will not damage GE s reputation.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 15  Don t shrug it off. It s a big issue   GE s reputation depends on doing business only with suppliers that deal responsibly
with their workers and with their local environments.     

WHAT TO DO        COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE LAWS  and government regulations covering supplier relationships.       DO BUSINESS  only with suppliers that comply
with local and other applicable legal requirements and GE guidelines relating to labor, the environment, health and safety. Follow the procedures set out in GE s Supplier Reputational Guidelines, found at  integrity.ge.com .       FOLLOW GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION REGULATIONS  when purchasing materials and services for fulfilling government contracts.       PROVIDE A COMPETITIVE OPPORTUNITY  for suppliers to earn a share of GE s purchasing volume, including small businesses and businesses owned by the
disadvantaged, minorities, women and disabled veterans.       SAFEGUARD GE S CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION  with a confidentiality
agreement, and safeguard any supplier-provided information protected by any confidentiality agreement.       SAFEGUARD  PERSONAL DATA   obtained
from suppliers (for instructions, see  Privacy  on page 26).       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR        CHOOSING SUPPLIERS  on any basis other than open, competitive bidding       POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST  in supplier selection, such as accepting improper gifts or other items of value       DIRECTING BUSINESS TO A
SUPPLIER  owned or managed by a relative or close friend       UNSAFE CONDITIONS  in supplier facilities       SUPPLIER EMPLOYEES  who appear to be underage or subject to coercion       APPARENT DISREGARD  of environmental standards in supplier facilities       ENTRUSTING  PERSONAL DATA   or confidential
information to suppliers without ensuring that they have appropriate technical, physical, and organizational measures to prevent unauthorized access or use       Working With Customers   Suppliers       FOR MORE IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

20  The Spirit   The Letter   

22  The Spirit   The Letter   

International Trade Controls       WHAT TO KNOW      International trade control (ITC) laws affect the transmission of goods, services and technology across
national borders. These laws apply to many aspects of GE s operations   not just shipping products. Exchanges of information across national boundaries, including e-mail and web access, are subject to trade controls. The United States also
controls the release of technical information      to non-U.S. nationals  within  the United States. It is important that
we carefully observe ITC laws in connection with these activities.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 20  It depends on the export classification of the technical information and your business s  Know Your Supplier  policy   check
with your business s ITC expert for specific guidance.     

WHAT TO DO        FOLLOW RELEVANT ITC REGULATIONS  of all countries in which you operate and your business s own ITC procedures as they relate to importing and exporting goods, technology, software, services and financial transactions.   
   REPORT ALL RELEVANT INFORMATION  to your import manager to ensure accurate and complete import declarations. Ensure GE or its agent provides accurate and
complete information to government authorities.       CHECK THE EXPORT CLASSIFICATION  of the product, software or technology prior to export to determine
whether special authorization is required.       SCREEN YOUR TRANSACTIONS  against all applicable rules that restrict transactions with certain sanctioned
countries, persons and prohibited end uses.       SCREEN ALL YOUR BUSINESS   PARTNERS,  suppliers and parties involved in your international
transactions against government-provided watchlists. Follow your business s  Know Your Customer/Know Your Supplier  procedures.       DO NOT
COOPERATE WITH ANY RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICE  or boycott that is prohibited or penalized under U.S. or applicable local laws.       CONSULT WITH YOUR
MANAGER  if a transaction involves a conflict between U.S. law and applicable local laws, such as the laws adopted by Canada, Mexico and the members of the European Union blocking certain U.S. restrictions.       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR   ANY FACTS, SOMETIMES KNOWN   AS  RED FLAGS,   that suggest your customer may be attempting to evade ITC laws (a
complete list of  Red Flags  is available from the International Law   Policy site found at  integrity.ge.com )       EVASIVE,
RELUCTANT OR OTHERWISE   UNSATISFACTORY ANSWERS  by a customer to questions about end use, end user, delivery dates or delivery locations       INVOLVEMENT OF PARTIES OR   ACTIVITIES  suspected of any connection with the development of biological, chemical or nuclear weapons, or ballistic missiles       TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING AN   EMBARGOED COUNTRY,  a citizen or representative of an embargoed country or an individual or entity subject to government sanction       INVOICES ON IMPORTED GOODS  where the price shown does not reflect the full value, the description of the goods is not complete, or the country of origin is not
correctly identified       ANY PAYMENT TO THE EXPORTER  or benefiting the exporter that is not included in the invoice price or otherwise reported
      TRANSFER PRICES  between related parties that fail to cover appropriate costs and profits       USE OF AN IMPORT TARIFF   CLASSIFICATION  that does not seem to describe the imported goods accurately       DESIGNATION OF GE AS THE   IMPORTER OF RECORD  (party responsible for an importation) without maintaining necessary processes to comply with import laws
      ENTRY OF GOODS UNDER A   PREFERENTIAL DUTY PROGRAM   (GSP, NAFTA, ETC.)  without supportive procedures assuring compliance with the
program s requirements       Working With Customers   Suppliers       FOR MORE IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

24  The Spirit   The Letter   

Money Laundering Prevention        WHAT TO KNOW       People involved in criminal activity   e.g., terrorism, narcotics, bribery, and fraud   may
try to  launder  the proceeds of their crimes to hide them or make them appear legitimate. More than 100 countries now have laws against money laundering, which prohibit conducting transactions that involve proceeds of criminal activities.
A related concern is that legitimate funds may be used to finance terrorist activity   sometimes called  reverse  money laundering.      GE is
committed to complying fully with all anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws throughout the world. GE will conduct business only with reputable customers involved in legitimate business activities, with funds derived from legitimate sources.
Each GE business is required to implement risk-based  Know Your Customer  due diligence procedures calibrated to the risk in question, and to take reasonable steps to prevent and detect unacceptable and suspicious forms of payment. Failing
to detect customer relationships and transactions that place GE at risk can severely damage GE s integrity and reputation.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 21  Yes, you should be suspicious if a transaction involves transferring funds to or from countries or entities unrelated to the transaction or not
logical for the customer. Moreover, requests to transfer money to third parties also raise red flags that need to be investigated to ensure the legitimacy of the transaction. Consult with company counsel or a GE anti-money laundering specialist
before proceeding.     

WHAT TO DO        COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE LAWS  and regulations that prohibit money laundering and support and financing of terrorism, and that require the reporting of cash or suspicious transactions. Understand how these laws apply to your
business.       FOLLOW YOUR BUSINESS S  KNOW   YOUR CUSTOMER  PROCEDURES.  Collect and understand documentation about prospective
customers, agents and business partners to ensure that they are involved in legitimate business activities and their funds come from legitimate sources.       FOLLOW YOUR BUSINESS S RULES  concerning acceptable forms of payment. Learn the types of payments that have become associated with money laundering (for example, multiple money orders or travelers checks, or checks on behalf of a
customer from an unknown third party).       IF YOU ENCOUNTER A WARNING   SIGN  of suspicious activity, raise your concern with a designated GE
anti-money laundering compliance specialist or company legal counsel and be sure to resolve your concern promptly before proceeding further with the transaction. Ensure the resolution is well documented.       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR   A CUSTOMER, AGENT OR PROPOSED   BUSINESS PARTNER  who is reluctant to provide complete information, provides insufficient, false
or suspicious information, or is anxious to avoid reporting or record keeping requirements       PAYMENTS  using monetary instruments that appear to have
no identifiable link to the customer, or have been identified as money laundering mechanisms       ATTEMPTS BY A CUSTOMER  or proposed business partner to
pay in cash       EARLY REPAYMENT  of a loan in cash or cash equivalents       ORDERS, PURCHASES OR PAYMENTS  that are unusual or inconsistent with the customer s trade or business       UNUSUALLY COMPLEX DEAL   STRUCTURES,  payment patterns that reflect no real business purpose, or unusually favorable payment terms       UNUSUAL FUND TRANSFERS  to or from countries unrelated to the transaction or not logical for the customer       TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING
LOCATIONS  identified as secrecy havens or areas of known terrorist activity, narcotics trafficking or money laundering activity       TRANSACTIONS
INVOLVING FOREIGN   SHELL OR OFFSHORE BANKS,  unlicensed money remitters or currency exchangers, or nonbank financial intermediaries       STRUCTURING OF TRANSACTIONS TO   EVADE RECORD KEEPING  or reporting requirements (for example, multiple transactions below the reportable threshold amounts)       REQUESTS TO TRANSFER MONEY  or return deposits to a third party or unknown or unrecognized account       Working With Customers   Suppliers       FOR MORE IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

26  The Spirit   The Letter   

Privacy        WHAT
TO KNOW       A growing number of countries are more stringently regulating the collection and use of consumers   personal data  (names, home
and office contact information, and other data).      In addition, many countries regulate personal data of company representatives in business-to-business
transactions. A few countries even regulate the privacy of information relating to corporations. GE is committed to handling personal data responsibly and in compliance with applicable privacy laws.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 20  If you collected this data in a country regulated by a  personal data protection  law   for example, most countries in Europe
  you may be prohibited by law from using or sharing the information where the person to whom the data pertains has not granted express consent. If you are not sure, consult with the Chief Privacy Leader for your business listed on the Privacy
site at Support Central.     

WHAT TO DO        LEARN AND COMPLY  with the following as they apply to personal data including:       

applicable laws and regulations of jurisdictions from which the personal data is collected and in which it is processed or used.         

the privacy policies of GE and your business.         

any contractual obligations that apply.         COLLECT, PROCESS AND USE
PERSONAL DATA  for legitimate business purposes only.       USE  ANONYMOUS  DATA  (names removed and not identifiable) or
 aggregated  data (summarized so as not to be identifiable to an individual) instead of personal data where appropriate or required.       LIMIT
ACCESS  to personal data to individuals who need it for a legitimate business purpose.       USE CARE  to prevent unauthorized access in processing of
personal data or accidental loss or destruction of personal data.       IF YOU LEARN THAT PERSONAL DATA HAS BEEN USED IN VIOLATION  of this policy or your
business s privacy implementing procedures, or if you learn that the security of any system or device containing personal data has been compromised, immediately notify your manager, business Privacy Leader or company legal counsel.   
   WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR        INADEQUATE ACCESS OR SECURITY
CONTROLS  for personal data, such as e-mailing or otherwise distributing personal data to a larger group than legitimately needed, or leaving printouts with personal data at a printer, copy machine or fax machine for others to see       SHARING OF PERSONAL DATA  with unaffiliated third parties, such as vendors or suppliers, who lack appropriate security safeguards or restrictions on information
use       TRANSFERS OF PERSONAL DATA  between countries, without considering applicable legal requirements       Working With Customers   Suppliers       FOR MORE
IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

30  The Spirit   The Letter   

Working with Governments        WHAT TO KNOW       GE conducts business with national governments and government-owned enterprises. In the course of our work, we frequently
interact with government agencies, officials and public international agencies. In every instance, GE employees must apply the highest ethical standards and comply with applicable laws and regulations, including certain special requirements
associated with government transactions.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 29  No, you cannot submit the invoice and certification until you are certain that the entire installation has been completed in accordance with the
contract. Submission of an incorrect certification could subject the company, and you personally, to criminal penalties. Therefore, it is extremely important that all certifications submitted to the government be current, accurate and complete.

WHAT TO DO        ABIDE BY APPLICABLE LAWS  and regulations relating to working with governments, particularly special requirements associated with government contracts and transactions.       REQUIRE  anyone providing goods or services for GE on a government project or contract such as consultants, sales representatives, distributors or suppliers to agree to comply with the intent of
GE s Working with Governments policy.       BE TRUTHFUL AND ACCURATE  when dealing with government officials and agencies.       ADOPT PROCESSES THAT ENSURE  reports, certifications, statements and proposals are current, accurate and complete and that contract requirements are adequately
identified and communicated to the responsible parties.       DO NOT MAKE ANY UNAUTHORIZED SUBSTITUTIONS  for contracted goods and services or deviate
from contract requirements without the written approval of the authorized government official.       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR        SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS  that apply to transactions with governments, including commercial transactions between private parties financed by government agencies such as
the EX-IM Bank, U.S. Agency for International Development, the European Union or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development       INCORRECT OR
UNAUTHORIZED COST-CHARGING  on government contracts       DEVIATIONS FROM CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS  or unauthorized contract substitutions, such as
failure to perform required tests and inspections       SUBMISSION OF INACCURATE OR INCOMPLETE  cost or pricing data when this data is required by the
government       VIOLATING GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS  that establish gratuity restrictions, recruiting and hiring restrictions, or certification procedures
      ACCEPTING INFORMATION  about a government s competitive selection of a supplier, or a competitor s bid or proposal (unless the contracting
officer or agency leader has specifically and lawfully authorized the information s release)       NEGOTIATING FOR EMPLOYMENT  with a government
official or government official s family members while the official has the ability to influence decision-making about contracts with the government       Government Business       FOR MORE IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

34  The Spirit   The Letter   

Complying with Competition Laws        WHAT TO KNOW       Competition and antitrust laws:       

Prohibit agreements or understandings between competitors that undermine competition;         

Regulate the behavior of dominant companies; and         

Require prior review and in some instances clearance for mergers, acquisitions and certain other transactions, in order to prevent transactions that would substantially reduce
competition.        These laws are complex, and global in reach, and can operate differently in any particular situation. Your business provides
specific guidelines on addressing contacts with competitors, obtaining and handling data about competitors, and participating in trade and professional associations and standards setting and product certification organizations. In addition, it is
often essential that you involve legal counsel early in the process of developing new commercial initiatives given the many uncertainties that arise in the application of these laws.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 33  Partnering with a competitor for a specific project may be permissible when the result is an improvement in the solution offered to the
customer; for example, when both companies together can provide an offering that neither would be able to supply separately. Always seek legal advice before agreeing to work with a competitor on a joint proposal.     

WHAT TO DO        COMPLY  with all applicable competition laws and regulations as well as competition law decrees, orders and agreements with any competition regulator about how business will be conducted.       REVIEW AND UNDERSTAND  both GE and business-specific policies and procedures, and if you have questions or issues, bring them up with company legal counsel.
      DO NOT  propose or enter into agreements or understandings   expressed or implied, formal or informal, written or oral   with any
competitor regarding any aspect of the competition between GE and the competitor. Do not discuss with a competitor or competitor representative:       

prices         

bids         

sales territories, allocation of customers or product lines         

terms or conditions of sale         

production, sales capacity or volume         

costs, profits or profit margins         

market share         

product or service offerings         

customer or supplier classification         

distribution methods         DO NOT  propose or enter into agreements with
anyone (including competitors, agents, brokers or customers) regarding whether to submit a bid or the terms of a bid where there is an understanding that the bid is submitted for any purpose other than winning the business.       AVOID CONTACTS  of any kind with competitors that could create the appearance of improper agreements or understandings.       DO NOT  propose or enter into agreements or understandings with customers that restrict the price or other terms at which the customer may resell or lease a
product or service to a third party.       DO NOT  propose or enter into agreements or understandings with suppliers that restrict the price or other
terms at which GE may resell or lease any product or service.       CONSULT  with company legal counsel to help reduce the risks of noncompliance in the
evaluation of any proposed merger, acquisition, joint venture or any other business arrangement that could raise competition law issues (examples of arrangements that need to be discussed with counsel are listed in  What to Watch Out For 
below).       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR        EXCLUSIVE
ARRANGEMENTS  for the purchase or sale of products or services       BUNDLING  of goods and services       AGREEMENTS THAT RESTRICT A CUSTOMER S CHOICES  in using or reselling a GE product or service       TECHNOLOGY LICENSING  agreements that restrict the freedom of the licensee or licensor       SELECTIVE PRICE
DISCOUNTING  to only certain customers       DISTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS  with competitors       AGREEMENTS TO ADD A GE EMPLOYEE  to another entity s board of directors       Competing Globally
      FOR MORE IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

38  The Spirit   The Letter   

Fair Employment Practices        WHAT TO KNOW       Fair employment practices do more than keep GE in compliance with applicable labor and employment laws. They contribute to a
culture of respect. GE is committed to complying with all laws pertaining to freedom of association, privacy, collective bargaining, immigration, working time, wages and hours, as well as laws prohibiting forced, compulsory and child labor and
employment discrimination. Beyond legal compliance, we strive to create an environment considerate of all employees wherever GE business is being conducted.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 37  Yes. Reasonable accommodations should be made to provide access and facilitate full participation in the meeting, or alternative arrangements
should be made for you.     

WHAT TO DO        BASE EMPLOYMENT DECISIONS  on job qualifications (e.g., education, prior experience) and merit. Merit includes an individual s skills, performance, values, leadership and other job-related criteria.       MAKE ALL EMPLOYMENT RELATED DECISIONS AND ACTIONS  without regard to a person s race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including pregnancy), sexual
orientation, age, disability, veteran status or other characteristic protected by law.       PROVIDE A WORK ENVIRONMENT  free of improper harassment and
bullying.       RESPECT THE PRIVACY RIGHTS  of employees by using, maintaining and transferring personal data in accordance with GE s Employment Data
Protection Standards and related procedures found at  integrity.ge.com . (While seeking to maintain employee privacy, GE reserves the right to monitor use of company property, including computers, e-mail, phones, proprietary information, etc.,
in accordance with applicable law.)       TAKE LAWFUL AFFIRMATIVE ACTIONS  in the United States, and elsewhere if required by local law, to increase
opportunities in employment for women, minorities, people with disabilities and certain veterans.       IF A CONFLICT ARISES  between the requirements of
this policy and the laws, customs or practices of a particular area, consult with management and company legal counsel to determine the most appropriate course of action.       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR        A HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT  (for example, telling jokes or displaying materials that
ridicule or offend a member of a particular race or ethnic group)       MAKING UNWELCOME SEXUAL ADVANCES  to another employee or person with whom you work
      VIOLATING A LABOR LAW  in your country (for example, hiring a child under the legal minimum age)       REFUSING TO WORK,  or otherwise cooperate with, certain individuals because of their race, religion, sex, or other characteristic protected by law       DISCLOSING EMPLOYMENT DATA  to a person who does not have the business need, authority or the subject s consent       TAKING AN ADVERSE ACTION  against an employee (e.g., firing) because the employee has raised a concern about a violation of policy or law       In the GE Community       FOR MORE IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO
TO:  integrity.ge.com    

40  The Spirit   The Letter   

42  The Spirit   The Letter   

Environment, Health   Safety        WHAT TO KNOW       Protecting the environment and the health and safety of employees is the law   and GE believes
it s also the right thing to do. Through management leadership and employee commitment, GE works to conduct its operations in a safe manner that minimizes environmental impact. This policy affects all company activities   not just managing
our waste and emissions, but everything we do   for example, selling products, driving a car on company business, acquiring a new business or providing customer service.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 41  Absolutely not. Both GE policy and safe work practices require that energized machinery be de-energized before work is commenced.

WHAT TO DO        COMPLY  with all applicable environmental health and safety ( EHS ) laws and regulations, and GE EHS policies.       CREATE AND
MAINTAIN  a safe working environment and prevent workplace injuries.       ASSESS EHS LEGAL AND REPUTATIONAL RISKS  before starting a new activity,
venture or project, selling a new product, acquiring a new business or participating in a hazardous business.       CONSIDER EHS IMPACTS  in the design
and production of GE s products and services as part of evaluating the  life cycle  of our products.       ELIMINATE UNREASONABLE EHS
RISKS  from GE s facilities, products, services and activities.       AS PRACTICABLE, REDUCE TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ; prevent pollution;
and conserve, recover and recycle materials, water and energy.       CONTINUE TO IMPROVE OUR EHS SYSTEMS  and performance as an integral part of GE s
operational strategy.       PRESENT IDEAS  that support the goals of this policy to your manager or your business s EHS manager.       PROMPTLY ALERT YOUR MANAGER  or EHS contact of unlawful or unsafe conditions.       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR        UNSAFE ACTIVITIES AND CONDITIONS , such as:       

failure to use personal protective equipment (shoes, safety glasses, hearing protection, gloves, monitors, etc.)         

unlabeled or unapproved chemicals         

exposed or unsafe wiring         

blocked fire or emergency exits         

unsafe driving, or failure to wear seat belts or follow GE s driving policies         

working in high places without fall protection         

working beneath heavy, suspended loads, or improperly using cranes         

working on electrical or powered equipment without following safety (e.g.  lock-out, tag-out ) procedures         

working unsafely at a customer site         

potential exposure to serious infectious diseases         

disabling safety controls or guarding on equipment and machinery         FAILURE TO COMPLY  with health, safety or environmental regulations and procedures       EHS COMPLAINTS  from employees, customers or
neighbors       UNREPORTED  environmental, health or safety hazards or accidents       FAILING TO RESPOND  promptly to concerns about possible product safety issues       MISSED OPPORTUNITIES  for
reducing waste and toxic materials       FAILING TO FOLLOW GE POLICIES  for the management, shipping, transportation, import/export and disposal of
hazardous materials and chemicals       RISKS AND LIABILITY  associated with new acquisitions as well as both new and existing products, processes,
services and ventures that present increased legal liability and reputational risk       INADEQUATE SECURITY  procedures or practices that may present
safety threats to a facility and/or employees       NEW PRODUCTS,  processes, ventures or acquisitions that present increased legal liability and
reputational risk       In the GE Community       FOR MORE IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

44  The Spirit   The Letter   

Security   Crisis Management        WHAT TO KNOW       In an age of increasing terrorist threats, protecting the security of our people, workplaces,
information and businesses is critical. It starts with every business implementing a rigorous and comprehensive security and crisis management (SCM) plan. GE s SCM plan includes measures for preventing terrorist and other criminal acts covering
our employees, facilities, information, information technology (IT) infrastructure, business continuity and crisis management. In addition, employees must take every precaution to avoid doing business with terrorists or those that support terrorist
activity.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 41  No, don t ship the equipment until the screening is done. GE cannot agree to do business with a customer, supplier or any other third party
until after all required Watchlist screening has been completed     

WHAT TO DO        IMPLEMENT RIGOROUS PLANS  to address the security of employees, facilities, information, IT assets and business continuity.       PARTICIPATE
IN  your business s emergency planning and emergency drills.       COMPLY WITH  the entry and exit rules at GE facilities, including wearing the
appropriate badge.       PROTECT ACCESS  to GE facilities from all but authorized personnel.       PROTECT IT ASSETS  from theft or misappropriation.       CREATE AND
MAINTAIN  a safe working environment this includes identifying and reporting indicators of workplace violence.       COMPLY WITH  global
immigration rules when traveling internationally, and ensure that employees or visitors who work for you or are closely associated with your business also comply.       COMPLY WITH  all GE international travel policies. Obtain appropriate pre-clearances to designated countries.       CONDUCT  appropriate
background checks on new hires and contractors, wherever allowed by law.       ENSURE PROPER BUSINESS  continuity plans are prepared for an emergency.
      SCREEN  all customers, suppliers, agents and dealers against appropriate terrorist Watchlists.       REPORT ANY APPARENT  security lapses to your manager, Crisis Management Leader or GE Ombudsperson.       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR        INDIVIDUALS AT GE FACILITIES  not wearing appropriate badges       UNSECURE IT ASSETS , such as laptops, servers, etc.       INADEQUATE
PROTECTION  of hazardous materials       UNSECURE AREAS OF A FACILITY  where only authorized personnel are allowed to enter       SECURITY COMPLAINTS  from employees, customers or neighbors       UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY  to a facility       DOING BUSINESS  with a customer, supplier or any third party without sufficient screening
      In the GE Community       FOR MORE IN-DEPTH
INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

48  The Spirit   The Letter   

Intellectual Property        WHAT TO KNOW       GE s intellectual property is one of its most valuable assets. All employees must work to safeguard our patents,
trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other proprietary information. At the same time, it is critical that we respect the valid intellectual property rights of others. Unauthorized use of others  intellectual property can expose the Company
and even individual GE employees to civil law suits and damages, including significant fines and criminal penalties. A key to protecting our intellectual property and, at the same time, guarding against these risks, is the timely and reasonable
review of new GE products, services, processes and software, for possible inventions and trade secrets and infringement of the intellectual property rights of others.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 47  No. Patent counsel should be consulted first, because showing the feature to the customer before a patent application is filed could result in
the loss of GE s right to obtain a patent.     

WHAT TO DO        IDENTIFY AND PROTECT  GE intellectual property.       FOLLOW THE REQUIREMENTS  of GE s Submitted Ideas Procedure (found at
 ge.com/en/subidea ) in handling any unsolicited ideas from outsiders as well as any employee ideas not covered by the  Employee Innovation and Proprietary Information Agreement  (EIPIA). For more information, consult the
 Intellectual Property Rights  Management Procedure found at  integrity.ge.com .       RESPECT VALID PATENTS,  copyrighted materials and
other protected intellectual property of others.       CONSULT  with Company legal counsel concerning necessary licenses or approvals to use protected
intellectual property of others such as patents, trademarks or proprietary information (i.e. information that is in confidence and not publicly known or generally available).       CONSULT  with company legal counsel before:       

soliciting, accepting or using proprietary information of outsiders (for example, soliciting from a customer proprietary information of a competitor)         

disclosing GE proprietary information to outsiders         

permitting outsiders to use GE intellectual property         UNDERSTAND YOUR
RESPONSIBILITIES  to the Company regarding new inventions, ideas that you may develop as a GE employee and the Company s information. Consult with company legal counsel if you have any question about these responsibilities, or about the
EIPIA (signed by exempt employees and other employees in a position of trust or likely to make inventions).       COMPLY  with the guidelines for use of
the GE primary trademarks and trade names (available at  gebrandcentral.com ) and GE s  Intellectual Property Rights  Management Procedure found at  integrity.ge.com .       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR        ACCEPTING PROPRIETARY INFORMATION 
belonging to an outsider, without first consulting company legal counsel       DISCUSSING GE PROPRIETARY INFORMATION  with customers or suppliers
      USING ANOTHER COMPANY  to develop new products or software without a written agreement in place covering ownership and other rights in the developed
intellectual property       PASSING ON,  for technical or management review, an outsider s suggestion for a new product, product feature, service or
name, without following the GE Submitted Ideas Procedure (found at  ge.com/en/subidea )       INTRODUCING, OR PROVIDING INFORMATION  about, a new
product or service before patent applications have been filed or a decision has been made not to file an application       INTRODUCING A NEW PRODUCT  or
service, or new product or service name, before checking for patent or trademark infringement       THREATENING  anyone suspected of infringing any GE
intellectual property without first consulting with company legal counsel       EMPLOYING A NEW PERSON,  especially a person who previously worked for a
competitor, without putting in place safeguards to prevent the person from inadvertently disclosing or using the proprietary information of the previous employer       EMPLOYING A PERSON  who has not signed the EIPIA in a job where inventions are likely to be made       Protecting GE Assets
      FOR MORE IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

50  The Spirit   The Letter   

Controllership        WHAT TO KNOW       Controllership embodies three fundamental elements: (1) rules that classify transactions and balances appropriately;
(2) systems and controls that protect assets and accumulate information consistently and correctly; and (3) financial and transaction reporting that is timely and unbiased. Controllership creates the right environment for disclosing
timely, reliable and accurate information to government agencies and the public.       

?     
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 47  No. This can be damaging both economically (giving away margin and putting strain on a customer relationship) and from an accounting standpoint
(not technically a sale, as the rules for revenue recognition have not been met).     

WHAT TO DO        FOLLOW GE S GENERAL ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES,  as well as applicable generally accepted accounting principles, standards and regulations for accounting and financial reporting.       ENSURE THAT FINANCIAL AND NONFINANCIAL INFORMATION  and operating metrics are reported accurately and in a timely fashion.       MAINTAIN COMPLETE, ACCURATE AND TIMELY  records and accounts to appropriately reflect all business transactions.       SAFEGUARD ALL COMPANY ASSETS  (physical, financial and informational).       PROVIDE TIMELY, CANDID FORECASTS  and assessments.       MAINTAIN SOUND PROCESSES  and controls.       COMPLY WITH GE S DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES  (found at  integrity.ge.com ) as well as all applicable laws and regulations relating to the
preservation of documents and records.       PRESERVE DOCUMENTS AND RECORDS  relevant to pending or reasonably foreseeable litigation, audits or
investigations, and as directed by Company counsel.       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR        FINANCIAL RESULTS THAT SEEM INCONSISTENT  with underlying performance       INACCURATE FINANCIAL RECORDS,  such as
overstated travel and living expense reports, or erroneous timesheets or invoices       TRANSACTIONS THAT ARE INCONSISTENT  with good business economics
      ABSENCE OF CONTROLS  to protect assets from risk of loss       PHYSICAL ASSETS  or other resources that could be more fully used, reallocated or disposed of       CIRCUMVENTING REVIEW  and approval
procedures       INADEQUATE ROUTINES AND CONTROLS  at newly acquired businesses and at remote and/or understaffed sites       INADEQUATE ROUTINES AND CONTROLS  to preserve documents (including e-mail) for pending or reasonably foreseeable litigation, audits and investigations   
   DISPOSAL OF DOCUMENTS  without knowing what is being discarded or whether the documents are subject to legal preservation requirements       FALSE OR EXAGGERATED STATEMENTS  in e-mail, presentations or other documents       Protecting GE Assets       FOR MORE IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

52  The Spirit   The Letter   

54  The Spirit   The Letter   

Conflicts of Interest        WHAT TO KNOW       On the job or in your free time, nothing you do should conflict with your responsibilities to GE. No activity at work or at
home should hurt GE s reputation or good name. Misusing GE resources or influence is also prohibited. Even when nothing wrong is intended, the appearance of a conflict can have negative effects. It is crucial to consider how your actions might
appear, and to avoid the perception of a conflict of interest.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 53  This is not explicitly prohibited, but the Conflicts of Interest policy requires that you disclose the situation to GE management, and that you
not attempt to influence GE business with your cousin s company.     

WHAT TO DO        DISCLOSE  (in writing to your manager and to company legal counsel) all of your outside activities, financial interests or relationships that may either present a conflict or the appearance of one.       USE GOOD JUDGMENT  in all personal and business dealings outside your GE job.       AVOID ACTIONS OR RELATIONSHIPS  that may cause potential conflicts or create the appearance of a conflict with your job or GE s interests.       DO NOT MISUSE  or use for personal gain GE resources, intellectual property, time or facilities   this includes office equipment, e-mail and computer applications.       DO NOT TAKE  for yourself personally any opportunities that GE could have an interest in that are discovered through the use of GE position, information or property.       GET APPROVALS  before accepting officer or director positions with an outside business while you are a GE employee.       GET YOUR MANAGER S APPROVAL  when accepting not-for-profit board positions, particularly if the organization has a GE relationship or might expect GE
financial or other support.       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR        FINANCIAL INTERESTS  in a company where you could personally affect GE s business with that company (for example, a customer, supplier or investment)       PART-TIME JOBS  which you perform using GE hours or GE equipment or materials       GIFTS  of other than nominal
value from suppliers, customers or competitors, particularly if you re making decisions (on GE s behalf) that involve them       PERSONAL DISCOUNTS
 or other benefits from suppliers, service providers or customers that the public or your GE peers do not receive       DIRECTING BUSINESS  to
suppliers when you know they are owned or managed by your family members or close friends       MISUSING GE RESOURCES,  your position or influence to
promote or assist an outside activity       HIRING, PROMOTING OR DIRECTLY SUPERVISING  a family member or close friend       PERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS  that may conflict with your GE responsibilities or compromise company interests       Protecting GE Assets       FOR MORE IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

56  The Spirit   The Letter   

Insider Trading   Stock Tipping        WHAT TO KNOW       In the course of your job, you may learn of material information about GE or other companies before it
is made public. You may simply overhear a hallway conversation or come across a memo left at a copy machine. Using this information for your financial or other personal benefit or conveying this information to others constitutes a violation of this
policy and may even violate the law. This includes buying or selling the securities of any company about which you have material non-public information and giving this  inside information  to anyone else who might base financial trades on
the information you ve shared.       

?   
   ANSWER TO QUESTION ON PAGE 52  Yes, if Company X is a public company and the possible acquisition of Company X has not been publicly announced. If your brother trades Company
X stock based on your tip, both of you could be charged with insider trading.     

WHAT TO DO        DO
NOT BUY OR SELL  the securities of any company, including GE, either directly or through family members or other persons or entities, while you are aware of inside information about the company. (This is known as  insider trading. )
      DO NOT RECOMMEND OR SUGGEST  that anyone else buy or sell the securities of any company, including GE, while you have inside information about the
company. (This is known as  tipping. )       MAINTAIN THE CONFIDENTIALITY  of Company information and do not convey information to anyone
outside the Company unless it is necessary for the Company s business activities.       IF THE NATURE OF YOUR BUSINESS S ACTIVITIES  and your
position in the business subject you to additional requirements relating to buying and selling securities (such as pre-clearing personal trades through the Transaction Control Authority, found at  integrity.ge.com ), learn and follow all of
those requirements.       IF QUESTIONS ARISE,  consult company counsel before trading in the security or disclosing company information.       WHAT TO WATCH OUT FOR        NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION WHICH, IF
DISCLOSED,  would reasonably be expected to affect the price of a security or would influence your decision to buy, sell or hold a security, such as an earnings announcement or a prospective acquisition announcement (this is known as  inside
information )       BUYING OR SELLING A SECURITY  because you hear or learn of information at work that you think will make the price go up or down
once it s publicly announced       ENGAGING IN TRADING ACTIVITY  around the time of a significant company announcement       DISCUSSING GE BUSINESS  with family and friends       TALKING ABOUT
WHAT YOU RE WORKING ON  or where you re going on company business or who visited the office       Protecting GE Assets
      FOR MORE IN-DEPTH INFORMATION GO TO:  integrity.ge.com    

58  The Spirit   The Letter   

Index        A
      Acquisition 19, 34, 35, 43, 56, 57      Affiliates 5, 59
     Affirmative action 39      Agent 5, 17, 23, 25, 35, 45   
  Antitrust laws 34      Appendix 59      Assets 13, 17, 45, 46, 48, 50, 51       B       Board of directors 9, 35      Boycotts 23      Bribery 16, 17, 24      Business policies and procedures 12, 35       C       Cash transactions 25      Code of Conduct 1, 2, 3      Commission 17       Competing Globally  13, 32-35      Competition Laws, Complying with 32-35
     Competitors 31, 33, 34, 35, 49, 55      Compliance specialists 4,
6, 9, 25      Concerns, Integrity 1, 4, 6, 7, 8-10, 11, 39, 43      Confidential Information 8, 19, 57      Confidentiality 8, 19, 57      Conflicts of Interest 3, 19, 46, 53, 54-55      Conflicts between laws 39, 59      Consultants 5, 17, 31      Contractors 5, 17, 45      Contracting officer 31      Contributions 17      Controlled affiliates 5, 59      Controllership 46, 47, 50-51      Copyrights 48, 49      Cost-charging 31      Crisis Management 36, 41, 44-45      Customer relationships 24, 50       D       Disability 39      Discrimination 38      Distributors 5, 17, 31      Due
diligence 17, 24       E       Embargoed countries 23   
  Employee responsibilities 1, 6, 12, 30, 48, 49, 54, 55      Employment
Practices 3, 11, 31, 36, 37, 38-39      Entertainment 16, 17      Environment 3, 18      Environment, Health   Safety 18, 19, 36, 41, 42-43      Ethical conduct 1, 2, 3, 7      Ethical standards 30      Exports 21, 22, 23, 43       F       Fair Employment Practices 3, 36, 37, 38-39      Facilitating payment 17      Family 17, 31, 55, 57      Financial records 51      Financial reporting 50, 51      Forecasts 51      Fund transfers 21, 24, 25       G       Generally accepted accounting principles 51      Gifts 16, 17, 19, 55       Government Business  13, 28-31      Government contracts 19, 31      Gratuity 17, 31       H       Harassment 39      Hazardous materials 43, 45      Health 18, 19, 36, 41, 42, 43      Hiring 31, 39, 55      Hostile work environment 39       I       Imports 21, 23, 43      Improper Payments 14, 15, 16-17       In the GE Community  13, 36-45      Independent contractors 5, 17, 45
     Inside information 56, 57      Insider Trading   Stock
Tipping 46, 52, 56-57      Integrity Web site 4, 6, 9, 19, 23, 39, 49, 51, 57, 60      Intellectual Property 46, 47, 48-49, 55      International Trade Controls (ITC) 14, 20, 22-23       J       Joint venture 35       K        Know Your Customer  23, 24, 25       Know Your Supplier  22, 23       L       Laundering money 14, 21, 24, 25      Leadership responsibilities 1, 3, 7, 11
     Licenses 49      Licensing agreements 35       M       Merger 34, 35      Minorities 19, 39      Money Laundering Prevention 14, 21, 24-25       N       Non-controlled affiliates 5      Non-public information 56, 57      Not-for-profit 55       O       Ombudsperson 1, 4, 6, 7, 9, 45      Outside activities 55       P       Part-time job 55      Patents 47, 48, 49      Payments 14, 15, 16-17, 23, 24, 25, 29      Penalties for Violations 11
     Personal data 19, 26, 27, 39      Political contributions 17
     Price 15, 23, 35, 57      Privacy 14, 19, 20, 26-27, 38, 39
     Property, company 39      Property, intellectual 46, 47, 48-49, 55
     Proprietary information 19, 39, 48, 49       Protecting GE
Assets  13, 46-57       R       Raising a concern 6, 8-10, 11
     Red flags 23, 24      Relatives 19      Responsibilities, employee 1, 6, 12, 30, 48, 49, 54, 55      Responsibilities,
leader 1, 3, 7, 11      Restrictive trade practice 23      Retaliation
7, 8, 11       S       Safety 19, 36, 41, 42, 43      Sales representatives 5, 17, 31      Securities 56, 57      Security and Crisis Management 27, 36, 41, 43, 44-45      Sexual advances 39
     Stock tipping 46, 52, 56-57      Submitted Ideas Procedure 49
     Subsidiaries 5, 59      Supplier Relationships 14, 15, 18-19
     Supplier Reputational Guidelines 19      Suppliers 13, 14, 15,
18-19, 20, 22, 23, 27, 31, 35, 44, 45, 49, 55      Suspicious transactions 21, 24, 25       T       Terrorism 24-25, 44-45      Third parties 5, 7, 17, 24, 25, 27, 35, 44, 45      Toxic materials 43      Trademarks 48, 49      Trade names 49      Trade secrets 48      Transaction Control Authority 57      Transactions 17, 23, 24, 25, 26, 30, 31, 34, 50, 51      Travel and living expenses 16, 17, 51       V       Veterans 19, 39      Violations 4, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 27, 39, 56       W       Watchlists 23, 41, 44-45      Web site 4, 6, 9, 60       Working with Customers   Suppliers  13, 14-27      Working with
Governments 28, 29, 30-31      Women 19, 39       Y    
  Your Personal Commitment 1, 4   

Appendix        WHICH
LAW APPLIES       GE conducts business in more than 100 countries around the world. Our employees are citizens of many different countries. As a result, our
operations are subject to the laws of many countries, provinces, states and municipalities, and organizations such as the European Union.      An important
challenge for all of us is to understand how these laws may apply to our operations. GE, the parent company, is a corporation organized in the United States. The laws of the United States frequently extend to the operations of GE and its affiliates
throughout the world, as well as to the business activities of GE employees wherever they live and work. Other countries may also apply their own laws outside of their borders to their own citizens and to corporations that are organized under their
laws, such as GE subsidiaries or other controlled affiliates.      The references in GE policies to the laws of the United States and the other countries where
we do business reflect the reality that a global company is regulated by many different laws at the same time. In some instances, there may be a conflict between the applicable laws of two or more countries. When you encounter such a conflict, it is
especially important to consult company legal counsel to understand how to resolve that conflict properly.               2005 General Electric Company Printed in the U.S.A.      The cover to this document was printed on paper made with 30% postconsumer waste fiber. The paper was manufactured using wind-generated energy and is Green Seal
certified. The inside pages to this document were printed on paper containing 10% postconsumer recovered fiber and manufactured with green power in the form of electricity generated from renewable resources including 85% Hydro Power, 10% Wind Power
and 5% Biogas.      GE employed a printer that produces all of its own electricity and is a certified totally enclosed facility that produces virtually no
volatile organic compound emissions.   

General Electric Company      Fairfield, Connecticut 06828       Visit the integrity        Web site        integrity.ge.com        GE
intranet: for employees only        You ll find more information including:        

Complete policies, including questions and answers         

Procedures and guidelines         

How to raise a concern         

How to contact an expert         

Business integrity Web sites         

Compliance training         

Tools and resources         

imagination at work   

</EX-14.2>

<EX-31.(I).1>
 12
 dex31i1.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION OF UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I

Section 302 CEO Certification of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I 

EXHIBIT 31(i).1        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I
       PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a) OR RULE 15d-14(a)       I, John R. Sprouls certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, UCFH I Finance, Inc., and UCFH II Finance, Inc.;

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrants as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15(d)-15(e)) for the registrants and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrants, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

c)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: March 30, 2006        

By:  
     
    /s/ JOHN R. SPROULS    

John R. Sprouls      Principal Executive Officer     

</EX-31.(I).1>

<EX-31.(I).2>
 13
 dex31i2.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION OF UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I

Section 302 CFO Certification of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I 

EXHIBIT 31(i).2        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER OF        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I
       PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a) OR RULE 15d-14(a)       I, Michael J. Short, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, UCFH I Finance, Inc., and UCFH II Finance, Inc.;

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15(d)-15(e)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

c)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: March 30, 2006        

By:  
     
    /s/ M ICHAEL  J. S HORT     

Michael J. Short   

Principal Financial Officer    

</EX-31.(I).2>

<EX-31.(I).3>
 14
 dex31i3.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION OF UCFH I FINANCE, INC

Section 302 CEO Certification of UCFH I Finance, Inc 

EXHIBIT 31(i).3        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF        UCFH I FINANCE, INC.        PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a) OR RULE 15d-14(a)       I, John R. Sprouls certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, UCFH I Finance, Inc., and UCFH II Finance, Inc.;

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15(d)-15(e)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

c)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: March 30, 2006        

By:  
     
    /s/ JOHN R. SPROULS    

John R. Sprouls   

President (Principal Executive Officer)    

</EX-31.(I).3>

<EX-31.(I).4>
 15
 dex31i4.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION OF UCFH I FINANCE, INC

Section 302 CFO Certification of UCFH I Finance, Inc 

EXHIBIT 31(i).4        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER OF        UCFH I FINANCE, INC.        PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a) OR RULE 15d-14(a)       I, Michael J. Short, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, UCFH I Finance, Inc., and UCFH II Finance, Inc.;

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15(d)-15(e)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

c)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ M ICHAEL  J. S HORT     

Michael J. Short   

Treasurer (Principal Financial Officer)    

</EX-31.(I).4>

<EX-31.(I).5>
 16
 dex31i5.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION OF UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II

Section 302 CEO Certification of Universal City Florida Holding Co. II 

EXHIBIT 31(i).5        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II
       PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a) OR RULE 15d-14(a)       I, John R. Sprouls certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, UCFH I Finance, Inc., and UCFH II Finance, Inc.;

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrants as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15(d)-15(e)) for the registrants and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrants, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

c)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ JOHN R. SPROULS    

John R. Sprouls   

Principal Executive Officer    

</EX-31.(I).5>

<EX-31.(I).6>
 17
 dex31i6.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION OF UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II

Section 302 CFO Certification of Universal City Florida Holding Co. II 

EXHIBIT 31(i).6        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER OF        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II
       PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a) OR RULE 15d-14(a)       I, Michael J. Short, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, UCFH I Finance, Inc., and UCFH II Finance, Inc.;

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15(d)-15(e)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

c)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ M ICHAEL  J. S HORT     

Michael J. Short   

Principal Financial Officer    

</EX-31.(I).6>

<EX-31.(I).7>
 18
 dex31i7.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION OF UCFH II FINANCE, INC

Section 302 CEO Certification of UCFH II Finance, Inc 

EXHIBIT 31(i).7        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF        UCFH II FINANCE, INC.        PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a) OR RULE 15d-14(a)       I, John R. Sprouls certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, UCFH I Finance, Inc., and UCFH II Finance, Inc.;

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15(d)-15(e)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

c)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ JOHN R. SPROULS    

John R. Sprouls   

President (Principal Executive Officer)    

</EX-31.(I).7>

<EX-31.(I).8>
 19
 dex31i8.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION OF UCFH II FINANCE, INC

Section 302 CFO Certification of UCFH II Finance, Inc 

EXHIBIT 31(i).8        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER OF        UCFH II FINANCE, INC.        PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14(a) OR RULE 15d-14(a)       I, Michael J. Short, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I, Universal City Florida Holding Co. II, UCFH I Finance, Inc., and UCFH II Finance, Inc.;

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15(d)-15(e)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

c)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ M ICHAEL  J. S HORT     

Michael J. Short   

Treasurer (Principal Financial Officer)    

</EX-31.(I).8>

<EX-32.1>
 20
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION OF UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I

Section 302 CEO Certification of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I 

EXHIBIT 32.1        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I
       PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350       In connection with the annual report of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ), I, John R. Sprouls certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:       

(1)  
  the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        Dated: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ JOHN R. SPROULS    

John R. Sprouls   

Principal Executive Officer    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 21
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION OF UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I

Section 302 CFO Certification of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I 

EXHIBIT 32.2        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER OF        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. I
       PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350       In connection with the annual report of Universal City Florida Holding Co. I (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ), I, Michael J. Short, certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:       

(1)  
  the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        Dated: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ M ICHAEL  J. S HORT     

Michael J. Short   

Principal Financial Officer    

</EX-32.2>

<EX-32.3>
 22
 dex323.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION OF UCFH I FINANCE, INC

Section 302 CEO Certification of UCFH I Finance, Inc 

EXHIBIT 32.3        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF        UCFH I FINANCE, INC.        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350       In
connection with the annual report of UCFH I Finance, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, John R.
Sprouls certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:       

(1)  
  the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        Dated: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ JOHN R. SPROULS    

John R. Sprouls   

President (Principal Executive Officer)    

</EX-32.3>

<EX-32.4>
 23
 dex324.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION OF UCFH I FINANCE, INC

Section 302 CFO Certification of UCFH I Finance, Inc 

EXHIBIT 32.4        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER OF        UCFH I FINANCE, INC.        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350       In
connection with the annual report of UCFH I Finance, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Michael
J. Short, certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:       

(1)  
  the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        Dated: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ M ICHAEL  J. S HORT     

Michael J. Short   

Treasurer (Principal Financial Officer)    

</EX-32.4>

<EX-32.5>
 24
 dex325.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION OF UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II

Section 302 CEO Certification of Universal City Florida Holding Co. II 

EXHIBIT 32.5        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II
       PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350       In connection with the annual report of Universal City Florida Holding Co. II (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the  Report ), I, John R. Sprouls certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:       

(1)  
  the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        Dated: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ JOHN R. SPROULS    

John R. Sprouls   

Principal Executive Officer    

</EX-32.5>

<EX-32.6>
 25
 dex326.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION OF UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II

Section 302 CFO Certification of Universal City Florida Holding Co. II 

EXHIBIT 32.6        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER OF        UNIVERSAL CITY FLORIDA HOLDING CO. II
       PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350       In connection with the annual report of Universal City Florida Holding Co. II (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Michael J. Short, certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:       

(1)  
  the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        Dated: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ M ICHAEL  J. S HORT     

Michael J. Short   

Principal Financial Officer    

</EX-32.6>

<EX-32.7>
 26
 dex327.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION OF UCFH II FINANCE, INC

Section 302 CEO Certification of UCFH II Finance, Inc 

EXHIBIT 32.7        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF        UCFH II FINANCE, INC.        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350       In
connection with the annual report of UCFH II Finance, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, John R.
Sprouls certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:       

(1)  
  the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        Dated: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ JOHN R. SPROULS    

John R. Sprouls   

President (Principal Executive Officer)    

</EX-32.7>

<EX-32.8>
 27
 dex328.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION OF UCFH II FINANCE, INC

Section 302 CFO Certification of UCFH II Finance, Inc 

EXHIBIT 32.8        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER OF        UCFH II FINANCE, INC.        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350       In
connection with the annual report of UCFH II Finance, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Michael
J. Short, certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:       

(1)  
  the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        Dated: March 30, 2006        

By:   
     
    /s/ M ICHAEL  J. S HORT     

Michael J. Short   

Treasurer (Principal Financial Officer)    

</EX-32.8>

