<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_889348_0000950136-06-002598_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1679955</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>121601</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>621</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1412796</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>48</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950136-06-002598.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331152221
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950136-06-002598
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CPI AEROSTRUCTURES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000889348
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	AIRCRAFT PART & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC [3728]
		IRS NUMBER:				112520310
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11398
		FILM NUMBER:		06728437

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200A EXECUTIVE DR
		CITY:			EDGEWOOD
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			11717
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5165865200

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CgVxNvO+a7PTc0BpN+vFMB+5JmhqLI2lZ1z9Nw/WWAcVBiQMoG9rgINUuBATLQom
 tk5xpKKkyRd3SyxnI2/GCA==

 0000950136-06-002598.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 file001.htm
 FORM 10-K

United
States SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C.
20549 
 Form 10-K 
 ANNUAL REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 
 For the fiscal year ended December 31,
2005 
 Commission file number
1-11398 
 CPI AEROSTRUCTURES, INC. 
 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter) 

New
York  
   
  11-2520310  

(State or
other jurisdiction of incorporation or
organization)  
   
  (I.R.S. Employer Identification
No.)  

60 Heartland Blvd., Edgewood, New York
11717 
 (Address of principal executive
offices) 
 (631)
586-5200 
 (Registrant s telephone
number, including area code) 
 Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title
of Each Class  
   
  Name of each exchange on which
registered  

Common
Stock, $.001 par value  
   
  American Stock Exchange,
Inc.  

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
 Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 
 Yes   No   
 Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. 
 Yes   No   
 Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 
 Yes   No   
 Indicate by check mark if the disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this Form
10-K.    
 Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of
  accelerated filer   and
  large accelerated filer   in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act (check one). 
 Large
accelerated filer    Accelerated
filer    Non-accelerated
filer    
 Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12-b2 of the Exchange Act). 
 Yes   No   
 As of June  30,  2005 (the last business
day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter), the aggregate market value of the registrant s common
stock (based on its reported last sale price on the American Stock
Exchange of $9.00) held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
$38,305,917. 
 As of March  24,  2006,
the registrant had 5,447,042 common shares, $.001 par value,
outstanding. 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC. 
 
 FORM 10-K ANNUAL
REPORT-2005 
 
 TABLE OF
CONTENTS 

PART
I  
   
  1  

Item
1.  
   
  Description
of Business  
   
  1  

Item 1A.  
   
  Risk
Factors  
   
  7  

Item
1B.  
   
  Unresolved staff
comments  
   
  9  

Item
2.  
   
  Description of
Properties  
   
  9  

Item 3.  
   
  Legal
Proceedings  
   
  9  

Item
4.  
   
  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders  
   
  9  

PART
II  
   
  10  

Item 5.  
   
  Market for
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities  
   
  10  

Item
6.  
   
  Selected Financial
Data  
   
  11  

Item
7.  
   
  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of
Operations  
   
  12  

Item
7A.  
   
  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk  
   
  15  

Item 8.  
   
  Financial
Statements and Supplementary
Data  
   
  15  

Item 9.  
   
  Changes in
and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure  
   
  15  

Item
9A.  
   
  Controls and
Procedures  
   
  15  

Item
9B.  
   
  Other
Information  
   
  16  

PART
III  
   
  17  

Item 10.  
   
  Directors
and Executive Officers of the
Registrant  
   
  17  

Item
11.  
   
  Executive
Compensation  
   
  19  

Item
12.  
   
  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management  
   
  23  

Item
13.  
   
  Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions  
   
  25  

Item
14.  
   
  Principal Accountant Fees and
Services  
   
  25  

PART
IV  
   
  26  

Item 15.  
   
  Exhibits and
Financial Statement
Schedules  
   
  26  

Signatures Exhibits 

PART
I 
 Item 1.     DESCRIPTION OF
BUSINESS 
 Introduction 
 CPI Aerostructures, Inc.
(  CPI Aero   or the
  Company  ) is engaged in the contract
production of structural aircraft parts principally for the United
States Air Force and other branches of the U.S. armed forces. We also
provide aircraft parts to the commercial sector of the aircraft
industry but we are not currently pursuing new business in this sector.
Our strategy for growth includes de-emphasizing our commercial
operations and concentrating on government and military sales.
96% of our revenues for 2005, 99% of our revenues for
2004 and 98% of our revenues for 2003 were derived from
government contract sales. 
 We operate as a prime contractor
supplying structural aircraft parts under prime contracts with the U.S.
Government. In that capacity, we deliver skin panels, leading edges,
flight control surfaces, engine components, wing tips, cowl doors,
nacelle assemblies and inlet assemblies for military aircraft such as
the C-5A   Galaxy   cargo jet, the T-38
  Talon   jet trainer, the C-130
  Hercules   cargo jet, the A-10
  Thunderbolt   or
  Warthog   attack jet and the E-3
  Sentry   AWACS jet. We also operate as a
subcontractor to leading aerospace prime contractors such as Northrop
Grumman Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation and Vought Aircraft
Industries, Inc. This is a field of opportunity that has opened up to
us over the past two years. As a subcontractor, we deliver pod
assemblies and bonded assemblies as well as perform small bench
assembly work. We also supply commercial aircraft products including
aprons and engine mounts, which attach jet engine housings to aircraft
such as the Lear 60 and Astra Galaxy business jets. Our products are
sub-assemblies, a series of parts fixed together to form a larger unit
that will comprise a part of a complex aerodynamic structure. In
conjunction with our assembly operations, we provide engineering,
technical and program management services to our customers. 
 CPI
has 25 years of experience as a contractor, completing over 2,100
contracts to date. Most members of our management team have held
management positions at large defense contractors, including Northrop
Grumman Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation and The Fairchild
Corporation. Our technical team possesses extensive technical expertise
and program management and integration capabilities. Our competitive
advantage lies in our ability to offer large contractor capabilities
with the flexibility and responsiveness of a small company, while
staying competitive in cost and delivering superior quality products.
While the larger prime contractors compete for significant modification
awards and subcontract components to other suppliers, they generally do
not compete for awards for smaller modifications or spare and repair
parts, even for planes for which they are the original manufacturer. We
qualify as a small business because we have less than 1,000 employees,
and this allows us to compete on military awards set aside for
companies with this small business status. 
 While historically the
majority of our contracts have been valued below $200,000, we have
competed for, and have been awarded, significantly larger contracts,
including an estimated $61  million award for the T-38
  Talon   jet trainer and an estimated
$215  million award for the C-5 cargo plane. We intend to
continue to bid on these larger contracts. We believe that our success
with the T-38 and C-5 programs will allow us to compete more
effectively for larger awards in the future. 
 CPI was incorporated
under the laws of the State of New York in January  1980 under
the name Composite Products International, Inc. CPI changed its name to
Consortium of Precision Industries, Inc. in April  1989 and to
CPI Aerostructures, Inc. in July  1992. In January  2005,
we began doing business under the name CPI Aero. 
 Our principal
office is located at 60 Heartland Blvd., Edgewood, New York 11717 and
our telephone number is (631) 586-5200. 
 1 

Discontinued Operations 
 In 1997, in
an effort to diversify our business, we acquired Kolar Machine, Inc., a
manufacturer of precision machine parts for the electronics industry.
As a result of the downturn in the electronic manufacturing sector, we
terminated Kolar s operations in December  2001, closed
its Ithaca New York, facility and liquidated most of its assets through
an auction in February  2002. Due to our decision to close the
Kolar facilities and liquidate its assets, Kolar s operations
have been classified as
  discontinued.   
 Significant
Contracts 
 The ongoing maintenance of existing aircraft by the
U.S. Air Force is the primary driver of our growth in both the number
of contracts and the size of awards. Our contracts with the Air Force
accounted for substantially all of our revenue for 2003, 2004 and 2005.
In most cases, we supply structural aircraft parts for aircraft that
are no longer being manufactured but continue to be used and need to be
maintained. CPI Aero has been awarded contracts within these
maintenance programs on the C-5A and T-38. The following table sets
forth the current actual and estimated Department of Defense budgets
for the government s fiscal years ended and ending
September  30,  2005, 2006 and 2007: 
 Department of
Defense
Budgets* 

Source:
Department of Defense (amounts in
millions) 

(1) Programs to procure spare
parts. 

(2) Programs for aircraft
modification and upgrade. 

The C-5A
  Galaxy   cargo jet is one of the largest
aircraft in the world and can carry a maximum cargo load of
270,000  pounds. Lockheed delivered the first C-5A in 1970. The
C-5A Galaxy carries fully equipped combat-ready military units to any
point in the world on short notice and then provides field support to
sustain the fighting force. The Air Force has created a comprehensive
program to ensure the capabilities of its C-5A fleet until 2040. We are
one of the leading suppliers of structural spare parts and assemblies
for the C-5A aircraft. We assemble numerous C-5A parts, including
panels, slats, spoilers and wing-tips and are the only supplier of C-5A
wing-tips to the U.S. government. Like the C-5A itself, the wing-tip is
a large structure and is expensive   costing up to $750,000 for
each replacement piece. Our first C-5A contract was approximately
$590,000 of structural spares and was awarded in 1995. In 2004, the Air
Force awarded us a seven-year TOP contract to build an assortment of
parts for the C-5A, including wing tips and panels. The TOP contract is
the largest contract in our history, with a potential value of up to
$215  million. Since 1995, we have received releases under
contracts for C-5A parts aggregating approximately $79  million,
including $11.8  million from the TOP contract. Future releases
under the TOP contract are unpredictable. C-5A contracts accounted for
approximately 25% of our revenues for 2005. 
 The T-38
  Talon   is a twin-engine, high-altitude,
supersonic jet primarily used for pilot training that first flew in
1959. More than 1,100 were delivered to the Air Force between 1961 and
1972, when production ended. There are approximately 500 T-38 s
in active service with the Air Force, which has a program designed to
extend the structural life of the T-38 until 2020. In 2001, we were
awarded a ten-year contract to build the structural inlets for the T-38
Propulsion Modification Program. At the time, the T-38 contract was the
largest in our history, worth an estimated $61  million over the
life of the program. The length and size of this program allow us to
develop a long-term backlog and establish ourselves as a successful
prime contractor for larger and longer term programs. The T-38 contract
accounted for 46% of our revenues for 2005. 
 2 

The balance of our revenue is generated
from various smaller contract awards on assorted aircraft, including
the MH-60S helicopter and the E-3 AWACS jet. 
 Sales and
Marketing 
 We obtain all of our military contracts for our
products and services through the process of competitive bidding. While
historically the majority of our contracts have been valued below
$200,000, we successfully have competed for and have been awarded
significantly larger contracts. Our average sales cycle, which
generally commences at the time a prospective customer issues a request
for proposal and ends upon delivery of the final product to the
customer, typically ranges from six to 18 months. Our military
customers have included Defense Supply Center Richmond,
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (AFB), Warner Robins AFB, Tinker AFB,
NAVICP, Hill AFB, U.S. Army and Redstone. Our commercial customers have
included Boeing, B.F. Goodrich (Rohr), Northrop Grumman, Lockheed
Martin, Nordam, Shinmaywa and Derco. 
 We use third party service
providers to help locate small government contracts that are regularly
posted by the various defense logistic agencies. The service providers
screen contracts according to criteria we establish and forward
matching contracts to us. We then view the relevant contracts directly
on government websites and select contracts on which we will bid based
on how well they fit our core competency. As of March  24,
2006, we had over $350  million in bids outstanding, and we
continue to make bids on contracts on a weekly basis. We generally bid
on 40 to 50 contracts per week. Over the past three years, we have been
awarded approximately 13% of the contracts on which we have
bid. 
 We qualify for small business status because we have fewer
than 1,000 employees. The military s fiscal year 2005 program
goals were 23% for small business prime contracting and
43% for subcontracting. During 2005, approximately 50% of
the value of our current contracts were awarded to us under this
program. 
 The U.S. Air Force operates three Air Logistics Centers
(ALC) through which it purchases all structural replacement and
modification parts. Each ALC is located on a domestic Air Force base
and is responsible for the repair and modification of different
aircraft. Parts worn out in the normal course of operation and
discarded instead of repaired are ordered through the centralized
Defense Supply Center Richmond (DSCR). We use on-site consultants at
each ALC and the DSCR to help in the procurement process. These
consultants are important as relationship managers and typically have
previous experience on the procurement side. The consultants provide us
with timely feedback and keep us apprised of large contracts that might
be up for bidding. Additionally, we currently have agreements with six
sales representatives to market our products to a broader base of
customers. 
 The Market 
 The majority of our parts are sold
for use by the U.S. Air Force. Accordingly, the national defense budget
and procurement funding decisions drive demand for our business. The
U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) budget has been increasing over the
past few years. Government spending requirements for procurement,
operations and maintenance for 2006 and beyond will continue to be
affected by the global war on terrorism through the continued need for
military missions and reconstruction efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan
and the related fiscal consequences of war. We expect that DoD spending
will grow with the overall level of defense spending and we expect to
benefit to the extent that such spending is allocated to aircraft
modification programs and spending on spare and repair parts. 
 The
DoD recently completed the Congressionally mandated 2006 Quadrennial
Defense Review (QDR). The QDR affirms the DoD s prior commitment
to its prior extensive investments in cargo transportability and
strategic lift and for maintaining and enhancing this capability by
recapitalizing and modernizing its mobility platforms, including the
acquisition and modernization of C-5 aircraft, one of our major
programs. 
 Notwithstanding defense budget increases and the
DoD s commitment to maintaining support for aging aircraft,
there has been a significant slowdown in government contract awards as
well as releases  
 3 

under previously awarded contracts. Faced with
the uncertainties of appropriations and timing of contract awards and
releases under previously awarded contracts, which we believe have been
driven by the uncertainties of war and market and economic trends, we
have expanded our activities to include operating as a subcontractor to
leading aerospace prime contractors. While the slowdown in government
contract awards also has affected these prime contractors, because they
are able to bid on and receive contract awards for different programs
than we are, we believe that pursuing such opportunities will enable us
to access programs that we would not otherwise be able to given our
smaller size and resources. By increasing our customer base, we are
positioned to take advantage of additional market opportunities and
reduce the impact of the slowdown in government contract awards and
releases. These subcontracting opportunities have begun to materialize,
and we have been awarded some initial subcontracts. We currently have
proposals submitted to multiple prime contractors, and while we cannot
predict the timing of awards, some of our outstanding proposals are so
significant in size that any single award could increase our revenue
and net income substantially 
 Backlog 
 We produce custom
assemblies pursuant to long-term contracts and customer purchase
orders. Backlog consists of aggregate values under such contracts and
purchase orders, excluding the portion previously included in operating
revenues on the basis of percentage of completion accounting, and
including estimates of future contract price escalation. Substantially
all of our backlog is subject to termination at will and rescheduling,
without significant penalty. Congress often appropriates funds for a
particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even
though the contract may call for performance that is expected to take a
number of years. Therefore, our funded backlog does not include the
full value of our contracts. Our backlog as of December
31,  2004 and December  31,  2005, was as
follows: 

Of
the total amount of our backlog at December  31,  2005,
approximately 99.4% was attributable to government contracts.
Approximately $18.6  million (91%) of the funded backlog
at December  31,  2005 is expected to be recognized as
revenue during 2006. 
 Although our new contract awards decreased
to $16.6  million in 2005, the government has continued to
request quotes and our bidding activity and win rate remains at their
approximate historical levels, we are currently experiencing a
significant slowdown of government procurement. Our reduced backlog is
reflective of this general slowdown in overall government
ordering. 
 Material and Parts 
 We subcontract production of
substantially all component parts incorporated into our products to
third party manufacturers under firm fixed price orders. Our decision
to purchase certain components generally is based upon whether the
components are available to meet required specifications at a cost and
delivery consistent with customer requirements. From time to time, we
are required to purchase custom made parts from sole suppliers and
manufacturers in order to meet specific customer requirements. To date,
we have not experienced material delays in connection with obtaining
custom parts and we believe that the loss of any single supplier or
manufacturer would not have a material adverse effect on our
business. 
 We obtain our raw materials from several commercial
sources. Although certain items are only available from limited sources
of supply, we believe that the loss of any single supplier would not
have a material adverse effect on our
business. 
 Competition 
 The markets for our products are
highly competitive. We compete with numerous larger, well-established
prime contractors engaged in the supply of aircraft parts and
assemblies to the  
 4 

military, including Northrop Grumman
Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company, The
Nordam Group and Vought Aircraft Industries, Inc. All of these
competitors possess significantly larger infrastructures, greater
resources and the capabilities to respond to much larger contracts. In
certain instances, we also may act as a subcontractor to some of these
major prime contractors. We also compete against smaller contractors
such as Aerocomponents, Aerospace Engineering and Support, GSE
Dynamics, Honeycomb Company of America, Alton Iron Works, B B
Devices and Precision Manufacturing. 
 We believe that our
competitive advantage lies in our ability to offer large contractor
capabilities with the flexibility and responsiveness of a small
company, while staying competitive in cost and delivering superior
quality products. While the larger prime contractors compete for
significant modification awards and subcontract components to other
suppliers, they generally do not compete for awards in smaller
modifications, spares and replacement parts, even for planes for which
they are the original manufacturer. We believe we compete effectively
against the smaller competitors because our smaller competitors
generally do not have the expertise we have in responding to requests
for proposals for government contracts. 
 Government
Regulation 
 Environmental Regulation 
 We are subject to
regulations administered by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, various
state agencies and county and local authorities acting in cooperation
with federal and state authorities. Among other things, these
regulatory bodies impose restrictions to control air, soil and water
pollution, to protect against occupational exposure to chemicals,
including health and safety risks, and to require notification or
reporting of the storage, use and release of certain hazardous
chemicals and substances. The extensive regulatory framework imposes
compliance burdens and risks on us. Governmental authorities have the
power to enforce compliance with these regulations and to obtain
injunctions or impose civil and criminal fines in the case of
violations. 
 The Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) imposes strict, joint
and several liability on the present and former owners and operators of
facilities that release hazardous substances into the environment. The
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA) regulates the
generation, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of
hazardous waste. In New York, the handling, storage and disposal of
hazardous substances are governed by the Environmental Conservation
Law, which contains the New York counterparts of CERCLA and RCRA. In
addition, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, which requires
employers to provide a place of employment that is free from recognized
and preventable hazards that are likely to cause serious physical harm
to employees, obligates employers to provide notice to employees
regarding the presence of hazardous chemicals and to train employees in
the use of such substances. 
 Our operations require the use of a
limited amount of chemicals and other materials for painting and
cleaning, including solvents and thinners, which are classified under
applicable laws as hazardous chemicals and substances. We have obtained
a permit from the Town of Islip, New York, Building Division in order
to maintain a paint booth containing flammable liquids. 
 Federal
Aviation Administration Regulation 
 We are subject to regulation
by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) under the provisions of
the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended. The FAA prescribes
standards and licensing requirements for aircraft and aircraft
components. We are subject to inspections by the FAA and may be
subjected to fines and other penalties (including orders to cease
production) for noncompliance with FAA regulations. Our failure to
comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of
or our disqualification from some of our contracts, which could have a
material adverse effect on our operations. 
 5 

Government Contract Compliance 
 Our
government contracts are subject to the procurement rules and
regulations of the United States government. Many of the contract terms
are dictated by these rules and regulations. Specifically, cost-based
pricing is determined under the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR),
which provide guidance on the types of costs that are allowable in
establishing prices for goods and services under U.S. Government
contracts. For example, costs such as those related to charitable
contributions, advertising, interest expense, and public relations are
unallowable, and therefore not recoverable through sales. During and
after the fulfillment of a government contract, we may be audited in
respect of the direct and allocated indirect costs attributed thereto.
These audits may result in adjustments to our contract costs.
Additionally, we may be subject to U.S. government inquiries and
investigations because of our participation in government procurement.
Any inquiry or investigation can result in fines or limitations on our
ability to continue to bid for government contracts and fulfill
existing contracts. 
 We believe that we are in substantial
compliance with all federal, state and local laws and regulations
governing our operations and have obtained all material licenses and
permits required for the operation of our
business. 
 Insurance 
 We maintain a $2  million
general liability insurance policy, a $10  million products
liability insurance policy, and a $5  million umbrella liability
insurance policy. Additionally, we maintain a $5  million
director and officers  insurance policy. We believe this
coverage is adequate for the types of products presently marketed
because of the strict inspection standards imposed on us by our
customers before they take possession of our products. Additionally,
the Federal Acquisition Regulations generally provide that we will not
be held liable for any loss of or damage to property of the government
that occurs after the government accepts delivery of our products and
that results from any defects or deficiencies in our products unless
the liability results from willful misconduct or lack of good faith on
the part of our managerial personnel. 
 Proprietary
Information 
 None of our current assembly processes or products
is protected by patents. We rely on proprietary know-how and
confidential information and employ various methods to protect the
processes, concepts, ideas and documentation associated with our
products. These methods, however, may not afford complete protection
and there can be no assurance that others will not independently
develop such processes, concepts, ideas and documentation. 
 Employees 
 As of March  24,  2006, CPI Aero had
72 full-time employees. We employ temporary personnel with specialized
disciplines on an as-needed basis. None of our employees is a member of
a union. We believe that our relations with our employees are
good. 
 6 

Item 1A.     RISK FACTORS 
 You
should consider the following risks carefully in evaluating us and our
business before making an investment decision. The risks described
below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks may also impair
our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our
business, results of operations or financial condition could be
materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of
our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your
investment. 
 
 Risks related to our business 
 
 We
depend on government contracts for most of our revenues. 
 We are
a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor, to the U.S.
government and its agencies, principally the U.S. Air Force. 96%
of revenue for 2005, 99% of revenue for 2004 and 98% of
our revenue for 2003 were derived from government contract sales. Two
of our contracts, for the T-38   Talon  
and the C-5, accounted for 46% and 25% of our revenue for
2005, respectively. We depend on these government contracts for most of
our business. If we are suspended or barred from contracting with the
U.S. government, if our reputation or relationship with individual
federal agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased
doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of
business it does with us, our business, prospects, financial condition
and operating results would be materially adversely affected. 
 We
face risks relating to government contracts. 
 There are inherent
risks in contracting with the U.S. government, including risks that are
peculiar to the defense industry, which could have a material adverse
effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating
results. All contracts with the U.S. government contain provisions and
are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and
remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including rights
that allow the government to: 

terminate
contracts for convenience in whole or in part at any
time; 

reduce or modify contracts or
subcontracts if its requirements or budgetary constraints
change; 

cancel multi-year contracts and
related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent
year become unavailable; 

adjust
contract costs and fees on the basis of audits completed by its
agencies; 

claim rights in products and
systems produced by us; 

suspend or bar
us from doing business with U.S. government;
and 

control or prohibit the export of
our products. 

If the U.S. government terminates a contract for
convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs,
settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the
termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we
may not recover even those amounts, and instead may be liable for
excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items
and services from another source. 
 
 We have risks
associated with competing in the bidding process for U.S. government
contracts. 
 
 We obtain many of our U.S. government contracts
through a competitive bidding process. In the bidding process, we face
the following risks: 

We must bid on
programs in advance of their completion, which may result in unforeseen
technological difficulties or cost
overruns; 

We must devote substantial
time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for competitively awarded
contracts that may not be awarded to us; and 

7 

Awarded contracts
may not generate sales sufficient to result in profitability. 

We are subject to strict governmental regulations relating to the
environment, which could result in fines and remediation expense in the
event of non-compliance. 
 We are required to comply with
extensive and frequently changing environmental regulations at the
federal, state and local levels. Among other things, these regulatory
bodies impose restrictions to control air, soil and water pollution, to
protect against occupational exposure to chemicals, including health
and safety risks, and to require notification or reporting of the
storage, use and release of certain hazardous substances into the
environment. This extensive regulatory framework imposes significant
compliance burdens and risks on us. In addition, these regulations may
impose liability for the cost of removal or remediation of certain
hazardous substances released on or in our facilities without regard to
whether we knew of, or caused, the release of such substances.
Furthermore, we are required to provide a place of employment that is
free from recognized and preventable hazards that are likely to cause
serious physical harm to employees, provide notice to employees
regarding the presence of hazardous chemicals and to train employees in
the use of such substances. Our operations require the use of a limited
amount of chemicals and other materials for painting and cleaning that
are classified under applicable laws as hazardous chemicals and
substances. If we are found not to be in compliance with any of these
rules, regulations or permits, we may be subject to fines, remediation
expenses and the obligation to change our business practice, any of
which could result in substantial costs that would adversely impact our
business operations and financial condition. 
 We may be subject
to fines and disqualification for non-compliance with Federal Aviation
Administration regulations. 
 We are subject to regulation by the
Federal Aviation Administration under the provisions of the Federal
Aviation Act of 1958, as amended. The FAA prescribes standards and
licensing requirements for aircraft and aircraft components. We are
subject to inspections by the FAA and may be subjected to fines and
other penalties (including orders to cease production) for
noncompliance with FAA regulations. Our failure to comply with
applicable regulations could result in the termination of or our
disqualification from some of our contracts, which could have a
material adverse effect on our operations. 
 If our subcontractors
or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime
contract performance and our ability to obtain future business could be
materially and adversely impacted. 
 Many of our contracts involve
subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a
portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. There is
a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including
disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the
subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to
extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a
subcontract, or our hiring of personnel of a subcontractor. A failure
by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a
timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon
services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our
obligations as the prime contractor. Subcontractor performance
deficiencies could result in a customer eliminating our ability to
progress bill or terminating our contract for default. A prohibition on
progress billing may have an adverse effect upon our profitability and
a default termination could expose us to liability and have a material
adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and
orders. In addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and
equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our
customers  needs and may have an adverse effect upon our
profitability. 
 We utilize the percentage of completion method of
accounting which involves considerable use of estimates in determining
revenues, costs and profits and in assigning amounts to accounting
periods. 
 We recognize revenue from our contracts over the
contractual period under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method of
accounting. Under the POC method of accounting, sales and gross profit
are recognized as work is performed based on the relationship between
actual costs  
 8 

incurred and total estimated costs at the
completion of the contract. Recognized revenues that will not be billed
under the terms of the contract until a later date are recorded as an
asset captioned   Costs and estimated earnings in excess
of billings on uncompleted contracts.   Contracts where
billings to date have exceeded recognized revenues are recorded as a
liability captioned   Billings in excess of costs and
estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts.   Changes to
the original estimates may be required during the life of the contract.
Estimates are reviewed monthly and the effect of any change in the
estimated gross margin percentage for a contract is reflected in cost
of sales in the period the change becomes known. The use of the POC
method of accounting involves considerable use of estimates in
determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning the amounts to
accounting periods. As a result, there can be a significant disparity
between earnings (both for accounting and taxes) as reported and actual
cash received by us during any reporting period. We continually
evaluate all of the issues related to the assumptions, risks and
uncertainties inherent with the application of the POC method of
accounting; however, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be
accurate. If our estimates are not accurate or a contract is
terminated, we will be forced to adjust revenue in later periods.
Furthermore, even if our estimates are accurate, we may have a
shortfall in our cash flow and we may need to borrow money to pay taxes
until the reported earnings materialize to actual cash
receipts. 
 If the contracts associated with our backlog were
terminated, our financial condition would be adversely
affected. 
 The maximum contract value specified under each
government contract that we enter into is not necessarily indicative of
the revenues that we will realize under that contract. Because we may
not receive the full amount we expect under a contract, we may not
accurately estimate our backlog because the actual accrual of revenues
on programs included in backlog may never occur or may change.
Cancellations of pending contracts or terminations or reductions of
contracts in progress could have a material adverse effect on our
business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. As
of December  31,  2005, our backlog was $50.5
million, of which 44% was funded and 56% was
unfunded. 
 We may be unable to retain personnel who are key to
our operations. 
 Our success, among other things, is dependent on
our ability to attract and retain highly qualified senior officers and
engineers. Competition for key personnel is intense. Our ability to
attract and retain senior officers and experienced, top rate engineers
is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market
conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for
the same talent. The inability to hire and retain these persons may
adversely affect our production operations and other aspects of our
business. 
 Item 1B.     UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
 Not
Applicable 
 Item 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY 
 CPI
Aerostructures  executive offices and production facilities are
situated in an approximate 60,000 square foot building located at 60
Heartland Blvd., Edgewood, New York 11717. CPI Aerostructures occupies
this facility under a ten-year lease that commenced in January
2005. The current monthly base rent is $32,703, plus real estate taxes.
Our base rent increases at 3% per year through 2014. We believe
that our facilities are adequate for our current needs. 
 Item
3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
 None 
 Item
4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF
SECURITYHOLDERS 
 None 
 9 

PART
II 

Item 5.  
 MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES 

Market Information 
 Our common shares are
listed on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol CVU. The
following table sets forth for 2004 and 2005, the high and low sales
prices of our common shares for the periods indicated, as reported by
the American Stock
Exchange. 

On March
24,  2006, the closing sale price for our common shares on the
American Stock Exchange was $9.85. On March  24,  2006,
there were 141 holders of record of our common shares and, we believe,
over 2,200 beneficial owners of our common shares. 
 Dividend
Policy 
 To date, we have not paid any dividends on our common
shares. Any payment of dividends in the future is within the discretion
of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, if any, our
capital requirements and financial condition and other relevant
factors. Our board of directors does not intend to declare any cash or
other dividends in the foreseeable future, but intends instead to
retain earnings, if any, for use in our business
operations. 
 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities, Use of
Proceeds from Registered Securities 
 We made the following sales
of unregistered securities during the three months ended
December  31,
2005. 

Date
of Sale  
   
  Title of Security  
   
  Number 
Sold  
   
  Consideration Received and Description
of Underwriting or Other Discounts to Market Price Afforded
to Purchasers  
   
  Exemption 
from Registration Claimed  
   
  If Option, Warrant  or
Convertible  Security, Terms  of Exercise
or Conversion  

12/6/05  
   
  Common
Stock  
   
  1,975  
   
  Common Stock issued  under
Performance  Equity Plan 2000    no cash
consideration  received by the Company  
   
  4(2)  
   
  N/A  

12/7/05  
   
  Common
Stock  
   
  1,667  
   
  Common stock issued  upon exercise of
options:  $10,452.09 cash consideration  received by the
Company  
   
  4(2)  
   
  N/A  

12/7/05  
   
  Common
Stock  
   
  15,000  
   
  Common stock issued  upon exercise of
options:  $95,250.00 cash consideration  received by the
Company  
   
  4(2)  
   
  N/A  

10 

ITEM 6.  
 SELECTED
FINANCIAL
DATA 

11 

Item
7.  
 MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Forward-Looking
Statements 
 When used in this Form 10-K and in future filings by
us with the Commission, the words or phrases   will
likely result,     management
expects   or   we expect,  
  will continue,     is
anticipated,     estimated  
or similar expressions are intended to identify
  forward-looking statements   within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such
forward-looking statements, each of which speaks only as of the date
made. As such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical
earnings and those presently anticipated or projected. The risks are
included in   Item 1A: Risk Factors   and
  Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations   included
in this Form 10-K. We have no obligation to publicly release the result
of any revisions, which may be made to any forward-looking statements
to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances
occurring after the date of such statements. 
 You should read the
financial information set forth below in conjunction with our financial
statements and notes. Except as otherwise indicated, the following
discussion does not include the results of operations of Kolar, Inc.,
which have been reclassified as discontinued
operations. 
 Business Operations 
 Our operations consist of
the design and production of structural aircraft parts principally for
the United States Air Force and other branches of the U.S. armed
forces. We also provide aircraft parts to the commercial sector of the
aircraft industry, but we are not currently pursuing business in this
sector. 
 We compete with other prime contractors to win contracts
through a process of competitive bidding. Additionally, we bid on
subcontract work to leading aerospace prime contractors. This is a
field of opportunity that has opened up to us over the past two
years. 
 After winning a contract, the length of the contract
varies but is typically between one and two years for U.S. government
contracts (although our T-38 contract and our C-5 TOP contract are for
periods of 10 years and 7 years, respectively), and up to 10 years for
commercial contracts. Our one commercial contract has an indefinite
life. Except in cases where contract terms permit us to bill on a
progress basis, we must incur upfront costs in producing assemblies and
bill our customers upon delivery. Because of the upfront costs
incurred, the timing of our billings and the nature of the
percentage-of-completion method of accounting described below, there
can be a significant disparity between the periods in which (a) costs
are expended, (b) revenue and earnings are recorded and (c) cash is
received. 
 Critical Accounting Policies 
 Revenue
Recognition 
 We recognize revenue from our contracts over the
contractual period under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method of
accounting. Under the POC method of accounting, sales and gross profit
are recognized as work is performed based on the relationship between
actual costs incurred and total estimated costs at the completion of
the contract. Recognized revenues that will not be billed under the
terms of the contract until a later date are recorded as an asset
captioned   Costs and estimated earnings in excess of
billings on uncompleted contracts.   Contracts where
billings to date have exceeded recognized revenues are recorded as a
liability captioned   Billings in excess of costs and
estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts.   Changes to
the original estimates may be required during the life of the contract.
Estimates are reviewed monthly and the effect of any change in the
estimated gross margin percentage for a contract is reflected in cost
of sales in the period the change becomes known. The use of the POC
method of accounting involves considerable use of  
 12 

estimates in determining revenues, costs and
profits and in assigning the amounts to accounting periods. As a
result, there can be a significant disparity between earnings (both for
accounting and taxes) as reported and actual cash received by us during
any reporting period. We continually evaluate all of the issues related
to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the
application of the POC method of accounting; however, we cannot assure
you that our estimates will be accurate. If our estimates are not
accurate or a contract is terminated, we will be forced to adjust
revenue in later periods. Furthermore, even if our estimates are
accurate, we may have a shortfall in our cash flow and we may need to
borrow money to pay taxes until the reported earnings materialize to
actual cash receipts. 
 In December  2004, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 123(R) (revised 2004),   Share-Based
Payment  , which amends FASB Statement No. 123 and was
effective for public companies for interim or annual periods beginning
after June  15,  2005. The new standard requires us to
expense employee stock options and other share-based payments. We will
value our stock option expense using the Black-Scholes options pricing
model.   
 Results of Operations 
 Year Ended
December  31,  2005 as Compared to the Year Ended
December  31,  2004 
 
 Revenue.  Our
revenue for the year ended December  31,  2005 was
$25,526,404 compared to $30,269,030 for 2004, representing a decrease
of $4,742,626 or 16%. This decrease was due to fewer contracts
in 2005 as compared to 2004 and a less favorable product
mix. 
 
 Gross profit.  Gross profit for the year ended
December  31,  2005 was $6,013,013, compared to $10,295,799
for 2004, a decrease of $4,282,786 or 42%. Gross profit as a
percentage of revenue for the year ended December  31,
2005 was 24% compared to 34% for December
31,  2004. Gross profit percentage declined for a number of
reasons, including rework costs related to a first article rejection,
increased factory overhead related to our move to new, larger
facilities and related utility and maintenance costs, and higher
indirect labor costs. The increased level of factory overhead and
indirect labor have been maintained in anticipation of releases on
contracts, including the C-5 TOP contract, that we already have been
awarded and the receipt of any additional awards on some of our major
outstanding bids. If these events are not forthcoming, we plan on
reassessing this position. 
 
 Selling, general and
administrative expenses.  Selling, general and administrative
expenses for the year ended December  31,  2005 were
$3,342,729, compared to $3,424,953 for 2004, a decrease of $82,224, or
2%. This decrease reflects a decrease of approximately $240,000
in officers  bonuses, offset by an increase in expenses related
to our efforts to sell to prime contractors. 
 
 Income from
operations.  Income from operations for the year ended
December  31,  2005 was $2,670,284 compared to income from
operations of $6,870,846 for the year ended December  31,
2004, a decrease of $4,200,562, or 61%. The decrease was due to
the decrease in gross profit decribed earlier and increases in expenses
related to our efforts to sell to prime contractors. 
 
 Interest
Expense.  Interest expense for the year ended December
31,  2005 was $18,314, compared to $8,109 for 2004, an increase
of $10,205, or 126%. Interest expense is considered immaterial
to our operations in both 2005 and 2004. 
 
 Income from
continuing operations.  Income from continuing operations for
the year ended December  31,  2005 was $2,657,433 compared
to income from continuing operations for the year ended December
31,  2004 of $6,870,031, a decrease of $4,212,598, or 61%.
The decrease was due to the decrease in gross profit described earlier
and increases in expenses related to our efforts to sell to prime
contractors. The 2005 results include income taxes computed at an
effective tax rate of 43% compared to 26% for 2004. The
increase was the result of us utilizing our remaining state net
operating loss carryforward at the beginning of 2005 and utilizing all
of our federal net operating loss carry forward in 2004. Basic income
per share for the year ended December  31,  2005 was $0.28
on an average of 5,422,101 shares outstanding, compared to $0.94 per
share from continuing operations on an average of 5,386,595 shares
outstanding for the year ended December  31,  2004. 
 13 

Year Ended December  31,
2004 as Compared to the Year Ended December  31,
2003 
 
 Revenue.  Our revenue for the year ended
December  31,  2004 was $30,269,030 compared to $27,288,035
for 2003, representing an increase of $2,980,995 or 11%. This
increase was due to our company winning more than 200 new contract
awards in 2004 totaling $17.9  million. 
 
 Gross
profit.  Gross profit for the year ended December
31,  2004 was $10,295,799, compared to $9,004,783 for 2003, an
increase of $1,291,016 or 14%. Gross profit as a percentage of
revenue for the year ended December  31,  2004 was
34% compared to 33% for the same period last year, due
primarily to a more profitable sales mix. 
 
 Selling, general and
administrative expenses.  Selling, general and administrative
expenses for the year ended December  31,  2004 were
$3,424,953, compared to $3,177,173 for 2003, an increase of $247,780,
or 8%. This increase is primarily attributable to costs of
approximately $102,000 incurred due to the relocation of our
facilities, an increase of $80,000 in salaries due to the hiring of
additional administrative employees and an increase of approximately
$70,000 in travel costs. 
 
 Interest Expense.  Interest
expense for the year ended December  31,  2004 was $8,109,
compared to $148,006 for 2003, a decrease of $139,897, or 95%.
The decrease in interest expense resulted from the repayment of debt
using the proceeds of our February  2003 public
offering. 
 
 Income from continuing operations.  Income
from continuing operations for the year ended December
31,  2004 was $6,870,031 compared to income from continuing
operations for the year ended December  31,  2003 of
$8,127,043 which includes a gain on extinguishment of debt of
$2,431,233, a decrease of $1,257,012 or 15%. The 2004 results
include income taxes computed at an effective tax rate of 26%
because we utilized all of our remaining net operating loss
carryforward for federal income tax purposes, approximately $4,400,000.
Basic income per share for the year ended December  31,
2004 was $0.94 on an average of 5,386,595 shares outstanding, compared
to $1.63 per share from continuing operations on an average of
4,872,255 shares outstanding for the year ended December
31,  2003. 
 Liquidity and Capital
Resources 
 General 
 At December  31,  2005, we
had working capital of $26,029,916 compared to $24,396,402 at
December  31,  2004, an increase of $1,633,514, or
7%. 
 Cash Flow 
 A large portion of our cash is used
in paying for materials and processing costs associated with contracts
that are in process and which do not provide for progress payments.
Additionally, contracts that permit us to bill on a progress basis must
be classified as   on time   for us to
apply for progress payments. Due to some delays in deliveries from
three of our approximately 100 vendors, we are presently late on two of
our contracts, which precludes us from applying for progress payments
on these contracts. During the year ended December  31,
2005, we incurred approximately $2,358,000 of costs related to
contracts in excess of the amounts that we were permitted to bill on
such contracts. These costs are components of   Costs and
estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted
contracts   on our balance sheet and represent the
aggregate costs and related earnings for uncompleted contracts for
which the customer has not yet been billed. These costs and earnings
are recovered upon shipment of products and presentation of billings in
accordance with contract terms. 
 Because the POC method of
accounting requires us to use estimates in determining revenues, costs
and profits and in assigning the amounts to accounting periods, there
can be a significant disparity between earnings (both for accounting
and taxes) as reported and actual cash received by us during any
reporting period. Accordingly, it is possible that we may have a
shortfall in our cash flow and may need to borrow money until the
reported earnings materialize to actual cash receipts. 
 JP Morgan
Chase Credit Facility 
 In September  2003, we entered into
a three-year, $5  million revolving credit facility with JP
Morgan Chase Bank, secured by our assets. The facility specifies
interest rates that range between the  
 14 

Prime Rate and 225 basis points over LIBOR,
depending on certain terms and conditions. The facility requires us to
maintain specified levels of working capital and other financial ratios
as defined. At December  31,  2005, we were in compliance
with all the covenants related to this facility. As of December
31,  2005, we had not borrowed any funds pursuant to this
facility. The Company s line of credit with JPMorgan Chase
expires in September  2006. We anticipate either extending the
line or securing a new line of credit prior to September
2006. 
 We believe that our existing resources, together with the
availability under our credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our
current working capital needs for at least the next 12 months. 
 Contractual Obligations 
 The table below summarizes
information about our contractual obligations as of December
31,  2005 and the effects these obligations are expected to have
on our liquidity and cash flow in the future
years. 

** The
employment agreements provide for bonus payments that are excluded from
these amounts. 
 Inflation 
 Inflation historically has not
had a material effect on our operations. 

Item
7A.  
 QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT
MARKET RISK 

None 

Item 8.  
 FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

(a) Financial
Statements 
 This information appears following Item 15 of this
Report and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item
9.  
 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

None 

Item
9A.  
 CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

An evaluation of
the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures was made as
of December  31,  2005 under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our chief executive officer
and chief financial officer. Based on that evaluation, we concluded
that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective in
recording, processing, summarizing and reporting, on a timely basis,
information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or
submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a result of the
material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting
described below. 
 15 

In the process of conducting our audit for
the year ended December  31,  2005, J.H. Cohn LLP, our
independent registered public accounting firm
(  JHC  ), identified that (i) costs
incurred, revenue recognized and billings to the customer on certain
contracts during the year ended December  31,  2005 were
not recognized properly due to an error made during our conversion from
a manual accounting system to MAPICS, an enterprise-wide electronic
processing system, and that (ii) there had been a misapplication of
percentage of completion accounting with respect to our commercial
contract. Our internal control over reviewing and recording revenue
recognition did not detect this error. 
 As part of the
communications by JHC with our audit committee with respect to
JHC s audit procedures for the year ended December
31,  2005, JHC informed the audit committee that these
deficiencies constituted a material weakness under standards
established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB.
However, JHC confirmed to the audit committee that they would still be
able to rely on their previously completed interim review of our
financial statements. 
 In order to remediate this material
weakness, our senior management will monitor all costs and control
total amounts generated through the MAPICS system that relate to
billings and expenses and cross check such amounts to the general
ledger and the applicable master job cost sheet. These remedial actions
have not been in place long enough to have been tested and will be
assessed for their adequacy on a continuous basis. 
 Except as
described above, during the most recently completed fiscal quarter,
there has been no change in our internal control over financial
reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting. 

Item 9B.  
 OTHER
INFORMATION 

None 
 16 

PART
III 
 Item 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
REGISTRANT 
 Our directors and executive officers are as
follows: 

Name  
   
  Age  
   
  Position  

Eric
Rosenfeld
(1)(2)(4)  
   
  48  
   
  Chairman
of the Board of Directors (non-executive)  

Edward J.
Fred (1)  
   
  47  
   
  Chief Executive Officer, President and
Director  

Arthur August (1)  
   
  71  
   
  Chairman Emeritus and
Director  

Vincent Palazzolo  
   
  42  
   
  Chief
Financial Officer  

Walter Paulick
(2)(3)(4)  
   
  59  
   
  Director  

Kenneth
McSweeney (2)(3)(4)  
   
  74  
   
  Director  

A.
C. Providenti
(3)  
   
  68  
   
  Director  

Key
Employee    

Frank
Funicelli  
   
  63  
   
  Senior Vice President, Business
Development  

(1)  
 Member
of strategic planning
committee. 

(2)  
 Member of compensation
committee. 

(3)  
 Member of audit
committee. 

(4)  
 Member of nominating
committee. 

Eric Rosenfeld  has been the non-executive
chairman of our board of directors since January  2005 and a
director and chairman of our strategic planning committee since
April  2003. Mr.  Rosenfeld has been the president and
chief executive officer of Crescendo Partners, L.P., a New York-based
investment firm, since its formation in November  1998. Prior to
forming Crescendo Partners, Mr.  Rosenfeld had been managing
director at CIBC Oppenheimer and its predecessor company Oppenheimer
  Co., Inc. for fourteen years. He was also chairman of the board
of Spar Aerospace Limited, a company that provides repair and overhaul
services for aircraft and helicopters used by governments and
commercial airlines, from May  1999 through November  2001,
until its sale to L-3 Communications. Since April  2004,
Mr.  Rosenfeld also has been chairman, president and chief
executive officer of Arpeggio Acquisition Corporation, a company that
has entered into a merger agreement with Hill International, Inc., a
construction management firm. He is also a director of Sierra Systems
Group, Inc., a Toronto Stock Exchange-listed information technology,
management consulting and systems integration firm based in Canada; a
director of Emergis Inc., a Toronto Stock Exchange-listed company that
enables the electronic processing of transactions in the finance and
healthcare industries, the chairman of Computer Horizons Corp., a
Nasdaq-listed company that provides information technology services to
corporations. He was also a director of Geac Computer Corporation
Limited which was a Toronto Stock Exchange and Nasdaq-listed company
until its acquisition by Golden Gate Capital in March, 2006. Mr.
Rosenfeld recently served as a director of AD OPT Technologies Inc.,
which was a Toronto Stock Exchange-listed company until it was acquired
by Kronos Inc. in November  2004. Mr.  Rosenfeld recently
served as a director and head of the special committee of Pivotal
Corporation, a Canadian based customer relations management software
company that was sold to chinadotcom in February  2004.
Mr.  Rosenfeld is a regular guest lecturer at Columbia Business
School and he is a member of the faculty at the Directors College. He
has served on numerous panels at Queen s University Business Law
School Symposia, McGill Law School and the World Presidents 
Organization. He also has been a regular guest host on CNBC. Mr.
Rosenfeld received an M.B.A. from Harvard University and an A.B. degree
in economics from Brown University. 
 
 Edward J. Fred  has
been an officer since February  1995 and a member of our board of
directors since January  1999. He was our controller from
February  1995 to April  1998, when he was appointed chief
financial officer, a position he held until June  2003 and then
from January  2004 to May  2004. He  
 17 

was executive vice president from May
2000 until December  2001 and was appointed to the position of
president in January  2002 and to the position of chief executive
officer in January  2003. For approximately ten years prior to
joining our company, Mr.  Fred served in various positions for
the international division of Grumman, where he last held the position
of controller. Mr.  Fred holds a Bachelor of Business
Administration in Accounting from Dowling College and an Executive MBA
from Hofstra University. 
 
 Arthur August,  one of our
founders, has been our chairman emeritus since January  2005 and
a director since January  1980. From January  1980 until
December  2004, he was chairman of the board of directors and was
our president until December  2001 and our chief executive
officer until December  2002. From 1956 to 1979, Mr.
August was employed by Northrop Grumman Corporation where he last held
the position of deputy director. Mr.  August holds a certificate
in Aeronautical Design from the Academy of Aeronautics, a Bachelor of
Science degree in Industrial Management from C. W. Post College, a
Masters degree in Engineering from New York University and is a
graduate of the Program for Management Development at the Harvard
Graduate School of Business. 
 
 Vincent Palazzolo  has been
our chief financial officer since May  2004. From December
2003 to May  2004, he was employed by J. H. Cohn LLP as an audit
partner. From 1988 through November  2003, Mr.  Palazzolo
was employed by Goldstein Golub Kessler LLP
(  GGK  ), where he was an audit partner
from September  1999 through November  2003. While employed
by GGK, from September  1999 to November  2003, Mr.
Palazzolo also served as a managing director of American Express Tax
and Business Services, Inc. Mr.  Palazzolo holds a Bachelor of
Business Administration in Accounting from Hofstra University is a
certified public accountant and is a member of the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants and the New York State Society of
Certified Public Accountants. 
 
 Walter Paulick  has been a
director since April  1992 and chairman of our nominating
committee since March  2004. Mr.  Paulick is currently a
self-employed development consultant. From 1982 to November
1992, Mr.  Paulick was a vice president of Parr Development
Company, Inc., a real estate development company. From 1980 to 1982,
Mr.  Paulick was employed by Key Bank, where he last held the
position of vice president. From 1971 to 1980, Mr.  Paulick was a
vice president of National Westminster U.S.A. Mr.  Paulick holds
an associate degree in Applied Science from Suffolk Community College
and Bachelor of Business Administration from Dowling
College. 
 
 Kenneth McSweeney  has been a director since
February  1998 and chairman of our compensation committee since
April  2003. Mr.  McSweeney has been an independent
consultant to the aerospace industry since January  1995. From
1961 to 1995, Mr.  McSweeney served in various management
positions for Northrop Grumman Corporation, most recently as the vice
president of its Aerostructures Division and a director of business
development for the Mideast and gulf coast region. Mr.  McSweeney
has extensive experience in aerostructures and logistics support
products and is a licensed professional engineer in New York State. He
holds Bachelor and Master of Science degrees in Electrical Engineering
from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters degree in
Business Management from CW Post College. He also completed the
Executive Development Program at the Cornell School of Business and
Public Administration. 
 
 A. C. Providenti  has been a
director and chairman of our audit committee since February
2003. Since 1984, Mr.  Providenti has served as president of A.C.
Providenti   Associates, Ltd., a consulting and strategic advisory
firm. From 1977 to 1984, Mr.  Providenti served as senior vice
president for finance and administration and as an executive committee
member for Northville Industries Corp., a multinational petroleum
storage, trading and distribution company. Mr.  Providenti holds
a Bachelor s degree in Accounting from St. Francis College and a
Masters of Business Administration from Fordham
University. 
 
 Frank Funicelli  has been with us since
March  1988, serving as our Director of Operations from 1988 to
1995, our vice president of operations from 1995 to 2002, and our vice
president of business development from 2002 to December  2003 and
became our senior vice president, business development in
January  2004. From 1977 to 1988, was employed by Fairchild
Republic Company where he served as Chief Industrial Engineer,
Manufacturing Engineering Manager and Director of  
 18 

Program Planning and Control. From 1966 to
1977, he was with Grumman Aerospace where he served as Industrial
Engineer, Manager of Manufacturing Planning and Control and Program
Planning and Resource Control Manager. Mr.  Funicelli holds a
Bachelor of Science degree in Industrial Engineering from Pratt
Institute and a Master of Science in Management Engineering from C.W.
Post College. 
 Our board of directors is divided into three
classes with only one class of directors being elected in each year and
each class serving a three-year term. The term of office of the second
class of directors (Class II), consisting of Walter Paulick and Eric
Rosenfeld, will expire at our annual meeting in 2006. The term of
office of the third class of directors (Class III), consisting of
Arthur August and Edward J. Fred, will expire at our annual meeting in
2007. The term of office of the first class of directors (Class I),
consisting of Kenneth McSweeney and A.C. Providenti, will expire at our
annual meeting in 2008. 
 Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance 
 Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 requires our officers, directors and persons who own more
than ten percent of a registered class of our equity securities to file
reports of ownership and changes in ownership with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Officers, directors and ten percent stockholders
are required by regulation to furnish us with copies of all Section
16(a) forms they file. Based solely on copies of such forms received or
written representations from certain reporting persons that no Form 5s
were required for those persons, we believe that, during the fiscal
year ended December  31,  2005, all filing requirements
applicable to our officers, directors and greater than ten percent
beneficial owners were complied with. 
 Audit Committee Financial
Expert 
 Currently, our audit committee is comprised of Walter
Paulick, Kenneth McSweeney and A.C. Providenti, with Mr.
Providenti serving as the chairman of the audit committee. The board of
directors believes that Mr.  Providenti is an
  audit committee financial expert   (as
defined in Regulation 229.401(h) of Regulation S-K). The board of
directors also believes that Mr.  Providenti would be considered
an   independent   director under Item
7(d)(3)(iv) of Schedule 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. 
 Code of Ethics 
 In March  2004, our board of
directors adopted a written code of ethics that applies to our
directors, officers and employees. A copy of our code of ethics was
filed as Exhibit 14 to our Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year
ended December  31,  2003. Requests for copies of our code
of ethics should be sent in writing to CPI Aerostructures, Inc., 60
Heartland Blvd., Edgewood, NY  11717, Attention: Corporate
Secretary. 
 Item 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
 The
following table sets forth all compensation awarded to, earned by, or
paid for all services rendered to us during the fiscal years ended
December  31,  2005, 2004 and 2003, by our chief executive
officer and our other executive officers whose total compensation
exceeded $100,000 during the year ended December  31,  2005
(  Named Executive
Officers  ). 
 19 

Option Grants in 2005 
 We did not
grant any options to employees in the fiscal year ended December
31,  2005. 
 Aggregated Option Exercises and Fiscal Year End
Option
Values 

(1)  
  These
values are based on the difference between the closing sale price of
our common stock on December  31,  2005 of $9.94 and the
exercise price of the options.  

Employment
Agreements 
 Edward J. Fred 
 In February
2005, we entered into an amended and restated employment agreement with
Edward J. Fred, which provides for Mr.  Fred to serve as our
President and Chief Executive Officer until December  31,
2007. Mr.  Fred s annual base salary was $252,000 for 2005
and increased to $267,120 on January  1,  2006 and will
increase to $283,150 on January  1,  2007. In addition,
Mr.  Fred is eligible to receive an annual bonus. However, for
the year ended December  31,  2005, Mr.  Fred did not
receive a bonus. Mr.  Fred s annual bonus is calculated
based on changes in our revenues and earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization (  EBITDA  )
from the prior year. 25% of the bonus amount is determined by
revenues and 75% by EBITDA. To the extent that a 10%
annual increase in revenues and EBITDA from the prior year is achieved,
Mr.  Fred is entitled to a target annual bonus equal to
65% of his annual base salary. Should the revenue and/or EBITDA
levels fall short of or exceed a 10% increase from the prior
year, Mr.  Fred s bonus will decrease or increase by
predetermined percentages. If there is more than a 15% annual
decrease in EBITDA or revenues, no EBITDA bonus or revenue bonus will
be paid. If there is an annual increase of 100% or more in
EBITDA or revenues, Mr.  Fred s  EBITDA bonus or
revenue bonus will be 75% more than the target annual bonus.
Both bonuses will be adjusted pro rata if EBITDA and/or revenues fall
in between two designated percentages. The first $140,000 of bonus will
be paid in cash and the balance will be paid half in cash and half in
shares of our common stock. The shares of common stock will be valued
at the average of the last sale prices of the common stock for five
consecutive trading days ending two trading days before issuance.
Mr.  Fred s annual bonus for the years ending
December  31,  2006 and 2007 will be calculated in the same
manner as the December  31,  2005 bonus was calculated.
Pursuant to the terms of Mr.  Fred s employment agreement,
if a change of control (as such term is defined in the agreement)
occurs prior to a termination by us without
  cause   or by Mr.  Fred for
  good reason   (as such terms are defined
in the agreement), we must pay him a lump sum equal to three times the
 
 20 

total compensation (including salary and
bonus) earned by him during the last full calendar year of his
employment. Mr.  Fred also has agreed not to compete with us
during the term of his employment and for two years
thereafter. 
 Arthur August 
 Under the terms of Mr.
August s employment agreement, as amended, effective
January  2005, he became our chairman emeritus and will serve in
that position until December  31,  2006 and receive an
annual base salary of $60,000. For the year ended December
31,  2004, Mr.  August received an annual bonus equal to
2% of our consolidated net income. Mr.  August was not
entitled to receive any bonus for the year ended December
31,  2005 and is not entitled to receive a bonus for the year
ending December  31,  2006. Mr.  August is required
to devote only such time to our business as he, in his sole discretion,
deems necessary. Pursuant to the terms of Mr.  August s
employment agreement, if a change of control (as such term is defined
in the agreement) occurs prior to a termination by us without
  cause   or by Mr.  August for
  good reason   (as such terms are defined
in the agreement), we must pay him a lump sum equal to three times the
total compensation (including salary and bonus) earned by him during
the last full calendar year of his employment. Mr.  August has
agreed not to compete with us during the term of his employment and for
five years thereafter. As consideration for his agreement not to
compete with us for an extended period of time, we agreed to pay
Mr.  August $300,000 in five, equal annual installments of
$60,000 commencing on January  1,  2007. 
 Vincent
Palazzolo 
 In February  2005, we entered into an amended
and restated employment agreement with Vincent Palazzolo, which
provides for Mr.  Palazzolo to serve as our Chief Financial
Officer until December  31,  2006. Mr.
Palazzolo s annual base salary was $175,000 until July
31,  2005 and then increased to $183,750 on August
1,  2005. In addition, Mr.  Palazzolo is eligible to
receive an annual bonus. However, for the year ended December
31,  2005, Mr.  Palazzolo did not receive a bonus.
Mr.  Palazzolo s annual bonus is calculated based on
changes in our revenues and EBITDA from the prior year. 25% of
the bonus amount is determined by revenues and 75% by EBITDA. To
the extent that a 10% annual increase in revenues and EBITDA
from the prior year is achieved, Mr.  Palazzolo will be entitled
to a target annual bonus equal to 45% of his annual base salary.
Should the revenue and/or EBITDA levels fall short of or exceed a
10% increase from the prior year, Mr.  Palazzolo s
bonus will decrease or increase by predetermined percentages. If there
is more than a 15% annual decrease in EBITDA or revenues, no
EBITDA bonus or revenue bonus will be paid. If there is an annual
increase of 100% or more in EBITDA or revenues, Mr.
Palazzolo s  EBITDA bonus or revenue bonus will be
75% more than the target annual bonus. Both bonuses will be
adjusted pro rata if EBITDA and/or revenues fall in between two
designated percentages. The first $75,000 of bonus will be paid in cash
and the balance will be paid half in cash and half in shares of our
common stock. The shares of common stock will be valued at the average
of the last sale prices of the common stock for five consecutive
trading days ending two trading days before issuance. Mr.
Palazzolo s annual bonus for the year ending December
31,  2006 will be calculated in the same manner as the
December  31,  2005 bonus was calculated. Pursuant to the
terms of Mr.  Palazzolo s employment agreement, if a
change of control (as such term is defined in the agreement) occurs
prior to a termination by us without
  cause   or by Mr.  Palazzolo for
  good reason   (as such terms are defined
in the agreement), Mr.  Palazzolo may elect to receive a lump sum
equal to $50,000 within 10 days of such election in lieu of his
compensation and benefits under the employment agreement. Mr.
Palazzolo also has agreed not to compete with us during the term of his
employment and for two years thereafter. 
 Compensation
Arrangements for Directors 
 Each of our non-employee directors
receives an annual cash fee of $10,000 (payable quarterly) and is
granted options to purchase 10,000 common shares on April
1 st  of each year. The chairman of the audit committee
receives an additional annual cash fee of $20,000 (payable quarterly)
and is granted an additional 20,000 options on April
1 st  of each year and the chairman of the strategic
 
 21 

planning committee receives an additional
cash fee of $10,000 payable quarterly. The chairman of the board
receives an additional cash fee of $40,000 (payable quarterly) and is
granted an additional 25,000 options on January  1 st 
of each year. Our directors will continue to be reimbursed for the
reasonable expenses they incur in attending meetings. 
 Employee
Benefit Plans 
 In October  2000, we adopted the Greit Plan
for the purpose of offering senior management a deferred compensation
death benefit plan that would provide a tax-free benefit for senior
management and which would be tax-neutral to us. Pursuant to the plan,
we made a non-interest bearing loan to Arthur August in the amount of
$150,000, which Mr.  August used to purchase a Greit Plan. This
plan has since been terminated and the surrender value of the Greit
Plan has been returned to Mr.  August. Mr.  August has
placed the proceeds from the surrender value in an annuity in our name,
which will appreciate to at least $150,000 by September  2011 in
order to repay the loan made to him. Mr.  August also assigned to
us an insurance policy on his life in the amount of $150,000 and agreed
to maintain it until the date upon which the annuity matures.
Accordingly, the loan to Mr.  August will be repaid upon the
maturity date of the annuity or upon the death of Mr.  August,
whichever occurs first. 
 Stock Options 
 Performance Equity
Plan 2000 
 The Performance Equity Plan 2000 authorizes the grant
of 1,230,000 stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
stock, deferred stock, stock reload options, and other stock based
awards. As of December  31,  2005, options to purchase an
aggregate of 860,000 common shares had been granted under this plan, of
which 750,750 options remain outstanding at exercise prices ranging
from $1.20 to $10.24 per share. As of March  24,  2006,
options to purchase 373,025 common shares remain available for
grant. 
 1998 Performance Equity Plan 
 The 1998 Performance
Equity Plan authorizes the grant of 463,334 stock options, stock
appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock, stock reload
options, and other stock based awards. As of December  31,
2005, options to purchase an aggregate of 546,002 common shares had
been granted, of which 208,334 remain outstanding at exercise prices
ranging from $2.53 to $11.31 per  share. As of March
24,  2006, options to purchase 666 common shares remain available
for grant. 
 1995 Stock Option Plan 
 The 1995 Employee Stock
Option Plan authorizes the grant of 200,000 stock options and stock
appreciation rights. As of December  31,  2005, options to
purchase an aggregate of 419,000 common shares had been granted, of
which 155,001 remain outstanding at exercise prices ranging from $6.27
to $10.48 per share. As of March  24,  2006, options to
purchase 285 additional common shares remain available for
grant. 
 1992 Employee Stock Option Plan 
 The 1992 Employee
Stock Option Plan authorized the grant of 83,334 options, all of which
have been granted and 41,002 shares remain outstanding at exercise
prices ranging from $2.59 to $6.27 per  share. No more shares may
be granted under this plan. 
 Other Options and Warrants 
 On
February  19,  2003, we issued to EarlyBirdCapital, Inc.
(and its designees) five-year warrants to purchase an aggregate of
200,000 common shares as compensation for acting as underwriter for our
February  2003 public offering. The exercise price of the
warrants is $4.40 per share. As of December  31,  2005,
warrants to purchase 5,000 common shares had been
exercised. 
 22 

Item 12.  
 SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

The table and accompanying footnotes set
forth certain information as of March  24,  2006, with
respect to the ownership of our common shares
by: 

each person or group who
beneficially owns more than 5% of our common
shares; 

each of our
directors; 

each of our Named Executive
Officers; and 

all of our directors and
executive officers as a group. 

A person is deemed to be the
beneficial owner of securities that can be acquired by the person
within 60 days of March  24,  2006 upon the exercise of
warrants or options. Accordingly, common shares issuable upon exercise
of options and warrants that are currently exercisable or exercisable
within 60 days of March  24,  2006 have been included in
the table with respect to the beneficial ownership of the person owning
the options or warrants, but not with respect to any other
persons. 

(1)  
  Unless otherwise
noted, we believe that all persons named in the table have sole voting
and investment power with respect to all common shares beneficially
owned by them, subject to community property laws, where
applicable.  

(2)  
  There are 5,447,042
shares currently issued and outstanding. Each person beneficially owns
a percentage of our outstanding common shares equal to a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of common shares held by such person
plus the number of common shares that he can acquire within 60 days of
March  24,  2006 upon the exercise or conversion of
options, warrants or convertible securities and the denominator of
which is 5,447,042 (the number of common shares currently outstanding)
plus the number of shares he can so acquire during such 60-day
period.  

23 

(3)  
  Unless
otherwise noted, the business address of each of the following persons
is c/o CPI Aerostructures, Inc., 60 Heartland Blvd., Edgewood, New York
11717.  

(4)  
  Includes 398,334 common
shares that Mr.  Fred has the right to acquire upon exercise of
options.  

(5)  
  Includes (a) 385,000
common shares that Mr.  August has the right to acquire upon
exercise of options and (b) 3,000 common shares are owned by Mr.
August s wife. Excludes an aggregate of 3,034 common shares
owned by Mr.  August s adult children, all of which shares
Mr.  August disclaims beneficial ownership.  

(6)  
  Includes common shares that Mr.
Palazzolo has the right to acquire upon exercise of options.  

(7)  
  Represents common shares that Mr.
Paulick has the right to acquire upon exercise of options. Does not
include 10,000 common shares underlying options that will be granted to
Mr.  Paulick on April  1,
2006.  

(8)  
  Includes 25,000 common
shares that Mr.  McSweeney has the right to acquire upon exercise
of options. Does not include 10,000 common shares underlying options
that will be granted to Mr.  McSweeney on April  1,
2006.  

(9)  
  Represents common shares
that Mr.  Providenti has the right to acquire upon exercise of
options. Does not include an aggregate of 30,000 common shares
underlying options that will be granted to Mr.  Providenti on
April  1,
2006.  

(10)  
  Represents (a) 46,000
common shares beneficially owned as joint tenants by Mr.
Rosenfeld and his wife; (b) 883,334 shares held by Crescendo Partners
II, L.P. Series L (  Crescendo Partners
II  ); and (c) 75,000 common shares that Mr.
Rosenfeld has the right to acquire upon exercise of options. Mr.
Rosenfeld is the senior managing member of the sole general partner of
Crescendo Partners II. Mr.  Rosenfeld disclaims beneficial
ownership of the shares held by Crescendo Partners II, except to the
extent of his pecuniary interest therein. Does not include 10,000
common shares underlying options that will be granted to Mr.
Rosenfeld on April  1,
2006.  

(11)  
  Represents (a) 231,324
common shares held by Midwood Capital Partners, L.P.
(  LP  ) and (b) 252,426 common shares held
by Midwood Capital Partners QP, L.P.
(  QP   and together with LP, the
  Funds  ). Midwood Capital Management LLC
(  Capital  ) is the sole general partner
of the Funds and, as such, has the sole authority to vote and dispose
of all of the common shares held by the Funds. David E. Cohen and Ross
D. DeMont are the managers of Capital and as such, have shared
authority to vote and dispose of all of the common shares held by the
Funds. The foregoing information was derived from an Amendment to
Schedule 13G filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March
21,  2006.  

(12)  
  The
information with respect to Rutabaga Capital Management is derived from
a Schedule 13G filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
February  14,
2006.  

(13)  
 Includes an aggregate
of 1,038,334 common shares that Messrs. Fred, August, Palazzolo,
Paulick, McSweeney, Providenti and Rosenfeld have the right to acquire
upon exercise of outstanding options. 

24 

Equity Compensation Plan
Information 
 The following table sets forth certain information
at December  31,  2005 with respect to our equity
compensation plans that provide for the issuance of options, warrants
or rights to purchase our
securities. 

Plan
Category  
   
  Number of Securities to be
Issued upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and
Rights  
   
  Weighted-Average Exercise Price of Outstanding
Options, Warrants and Rights  
   
  Number of
Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance under
Equity Compensation Plans (excluding securities reflected
in the first column)  

Equity
Compensation Plans Approved by Security
Holders  

1,155,087  

$  
  4.89  

373,976  

Equity
Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security
Holders(1)  

195,000  

$  
  4.40  

-0-  

(1)  
  See
  Stock Options   Other Options and
Warrants   description above.  

Item
13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 
 For
information concerning employment agreements with, compensation of, and
stock options granted to our executive officers and directors, see
  Item 10. Executive
Compensation.   
 Item 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT
FEES AND SERVICES 
 Principal Accountant
Fees 

(1)  
  Represents
the aggregate fees billed for professional services rendered by our
principal accountants for the audits of our annual financial statements
for the years ended December  31,  2005 and December
31,  2004 and review of financial statements included in our
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or services that are normally provided
by the accountant in connection with statutory and regulatory filings
or engagements for those periods.  

(2)  
  Represents the aggregate fees billed for
professional services rendered by our principal accountants for the
preparation of our federal and state income tax returns for the years
ended December  31,  2005 and
2004.  

(3)  
  Represents the aggregate fees billed
for other professional services rendered by our principal accountants,
including the audit of our 401 (K) profit sharing plan and out of
pocket expenses.  

Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies and
Procedures 
 In accordance with Section 10A(i) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, before we engage our independent accountants to
render audit or non-audit services, the engagement is approved by our
audit committee. Our audit committee approved all of the fees referred
to in the sections entitled   Audit Fees,  
  Audit-Related Fees,     Tax
Fees   and   All Other Fees  
above. 
 25 

PART IV 
 Item 15.    EXHIBITS,
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES 

26 

*  
  Management
compensation contract or
arrangement.  

**  
  Filed
herewith.  

(2)  
  Filed as an
exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for year
ended December  31,  1995 and incorporated herein by
reference.  

(3)  
  Filed as an exhibit
to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended
December  31,  1998 and incorporated herein by
reference.  

(4)  
  Filed as an exhibit
to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended
December  31,  2000 and incorporated herein by
reference.  

(5)  
  Filed as an exhibit
to Schedule 13D filed on behalf of Edward J. Fred on October
19,  2001 and incorporated herein by
reference.  

(6)  
  Filed as an exhibit
to Schedule 13D filed on behalf of Arthur August on October
19,  2001 and incorporated herein by
reference.  

27 

(7)  
  Filed as an
exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the
quarter ended September  30,  2001 and incorporated herein
by reference.  

(8)  
  Filed as an
exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
January  22,  2002, as amended, and incorporated herein by
reference.  

(9)  
  Filed as an exhibit
to Schedule 13D filed on behalf of Arthur August on July
12,  2002 and incorporated herein by
reference.  

(10)  
  Filed as an exhibit
to Schedule 13D filed on behalf of Edward J. Fred on July
12,  2002 and incorporated herein by
reference.  

(12)  
  Filed as an exhibit
to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May
24,  2004 and incorporated herein by
reference.  

(13)  
  Filed as an exhibit
to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
February  7,  2005 and incorporated herein by
reference.  

(14)  
  Filed as an exhibit
to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December  1,  2005 and incorporated herein by
reference.  

(15)  
  Filed as an exhibit
to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended
December  31,  2003 and incorporated herein by
reference.  

(16)  
  Filed as an exhibit
to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May
24,  2005 and incorporated herein by
reference.  

28 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC. 

INDEX TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 

F-1 

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm 
 
 To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders CPI Aerostructures, Inc. 
 We have
audited the accompanying balance sheets of CPI Aerostructures, Inc. as
of December  31,  2005 and 2004, and the related statements
of income, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows for the
years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
 We conducted our audits in accordance with standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
 In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of CPI
Aerostructures, Inc. as of December  31,  2005 and 2004,
and its results of operations and cash flows for the years then ended,
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. 
 
 /s/J.H. Cohn
LLP 
 J.H. Cohn LLP 
 Jericho, New
York March  29,  2006 
 F-2 

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM 
 
 To the Board of Directors CPI
Aerostructures, Inc. 
 We have audited the
accompanying statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash
flows of CPI Aerostructures, Inc. for the year ended December
31,  2003. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our
audit. 
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion. 
 In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the results of the
operations of CPI Aerostructures, Inc. and its cash flows for the year
ended December  31,  2003 in conformity with United States
generally accepted accounting principles. 
 
 /s/
Goldstein Golub Kessler LLP 
 
  GOLDSTEIN GOLUB
KESSLER LLP  
 New York, New
York 
 January  30,
2004 
 F-3 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC. 
 BALANCE
SHEETS 

See
Notes to Financial Statements 
 F-4 

CPI AEROSTRUCTURES,
INC. 
 STATEMENTS OF
INCOME 

See
Notes to Financial Statements 
 F-5 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC. 
 STATEMENTS OF
SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

Years ended December
31,  2005, 2004 and
2003 

See
Notes to Financial Statements 
 F-6 

CPI AEROSTRUCTURES,
INC. 
 STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS 

See
Notes to Financial Statements 
 F-7 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC.       NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS December  31,
2005 

1.  
  PRINCIPAL
BUSINESS ACTIVITYAND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

CPI Aerostructures, Inc. s
(  CPI   or the
  Company  ) operations consist of the
design and production of complex aerospace structural subassemblies
under U.S. government and commercial contracts. The length of the
Company s contracts varies but is typically between one and two
years for U.S. government contracts, although our T-38 contract and our
C-5 TOP contract are for 10 years and 7 years, respectively. Our one
commercial contract has an indefinite life. 

CPI s
revenue is recognized based on the percentage of completion method of
accounting for its contracts measured by the percentage of total costs
incurred to date to estimated total costs at completion for each
contract. Contract costs include all direct material, labor costs,
tooling and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such
as indirect labor, supplies, tools, repairs and depreciation costs.
Selling, general and administrative costs are charged to expense as
incurred. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognized in
the period in which such losses are determined. Changes in job
performance may result in revisions to costs and income and are
recognized in the period in which revisions are determined to be
required. The percentage of completion method of accounting involves
considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and
profits and in assigning the amounts to accounting periods and, as a
result, there can be a significant disparity between earnings (both for
accounting and taxes) as reported and actual cash received by us during
any reporting period. In accordance with industry practice, costs and
estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts,
included in the accompanying balance sheets, contain amounts relating
to contracts and programs with long production cycles, a portion of
which will not be realized within one year. CPI s recorded
revenue may be adjusted in later periods in the event that CPI s
cost estimates prove to be inaccurate or a contract is
terminated. 

Our government contracts are subject to the
procurement rules and regulations of the United States government. Many
of the contract terms are dictated by these rules and regulations.
Specifically, cost-based pricing is determined under the Federal
Acquisition Regulations (  FAR  ), which
provide guidance on the types of costs that are allowable in
establishing prices for goods and services under U.S. Government
contracts. For example, costs such as those related to charitable
contributions, advertising, interest expense, and public relations are
unallowable, and therefore not recoverable through sales. During and
after the fulfillment of a government contract, we may be audited in
respect of the direct and allocated indirect costs attributable
thereto. These audits may result in adjustments to our contract
costs. 

The Company maintains cash in bank deposit accounts
which, at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company has
not experienced any losses in such accounts. The Company believes it is
not exposed to any significant credit risk on
cash. 

Accounts receivable are reported at their outstanding
unpaid principal balances. The Company writes off accounts when they
are deemed to be  

F-8 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC.       NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS December  31,
2005 

uncollectible. The Company has experienced
insignificant amounts of bad debts in such
accounts. 

Depreciation and amortization of plant and
equipment is provided by the straight-line method over the estimated
useful lives of the respective assets or the life of the lease, for
leasehold improvements. 

The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America requires the use of estimates by
management. Actual results could differ from these
estimates. 

The Company reviews its long-lived assets and
certain related intangibles for impairment whenever changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
fully recoverable. As a result of its review, the Company does not
believe that any such change has occurred. If such changes in
circumstance are present, a loss is recognized to the extent the
carrying value of the asset is in excess of the sum of the undiscounted
cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and amounts
expected to be realized upon its eventual disposition. 

The
fair value of the Company s short-term debt is estimated based
on the current rates offered to the Company for debt of similar terms
and maturities. Using this method, the fair value of the
Company s short-term debt was not significantly different than
the stated value at December  31,  2005. 

Basic earnings per common share
is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding.
Diluted earnings per common share is computed using the
weighted-average number of shares outstanding adjusted for the
incremental shares attributed to outstanding options and warrants to
purchase common stock. Incremental shares of 692,707, 727,479 and
510,011 were used in the calculation of diluted earnings per common
share in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Incremental shares of
155,000 and 75,000 were not included in the diluted earnings per share
calculations at December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively,
as their exercise price was in excess of the Company s stock
price and, accordingly, these shares are not assumed to be exercised
for the diluted earnings per share calculation. All shares were
included in the diluted earnings per share calculation for
December  31,  2003. 

F-9 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC.       NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS December  31,
2005 

The Company has elected to apply
Accounting Principles Board (  APB  )
Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , and
related interpretations in accounting for its stock options issued to
employees (intrinsic value) and has adopted the disclosure-only
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(  SFAS  ) No. 123,  Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation . Had the Company elected to recognize
compensation cost based on the fair value of the options granted at the
grant date as prescribed by SFAS No. 123, the Company s net
income and income per common share would have been as
follows: 

The
Company s assumptions used to calculate the fair values of
options issued during 2005 were (i) risk-free interest rate of
4.2% , (ii) expected life of 5 years, (iii) expected volatility
of 32%, and (iv) expected dividends of zero. In 2004, the
Company s assumptions used to calculate the fair values of
options issued were (i) risk-free interest rates of 2.74% and
4.00%, (ii) expected life of 5-10 years, (iii) expected
volatility of 35%, and (iv) expected dividends of zero. In 2003,
the Company s assumptions used to calculate the fair values of
options issued were (i) risk-free interest rates of 2.10% and
2.78%, (ii) expected life of 10 years, (iii) expected volatility
of 198%, and (iv) expected dividends of zero. 

In
December  2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R) (revised 2004),
   Share-Based Payment   , which
amends SFAS No. 123 and was effective for public companies for interim
or annual periods beginning after June  15,  2005. The new
standard requires us to expense employee stock options and other
share-based payments. The company will value employee share options
using the Black-Scholes options pricing model.  The new standard
may be adopted in one of three ways   the modified prospective
transition method, a variation of the modified prospective transition
method or the modified retrospective transition method. At
December  31,  2005 there is a deferred expense of $77,752
for the unamortized portion of options issued during 2005, all of which
will be expensed in 2006. 

F-10 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC.       NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS December  31,
2005 

2.  
  COSTS
AND ESTIMATED EARNINGS IN EXCESS OF BILLINGS ON UNCOMPLETED
CONTRACTS:  
   
 At December  31,  2005, costs
and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts
(unbilled) consist
of: 

At
December  31,  2004, costs and estimated earnings in excess
of billings on uncompleted contracts (unbilled) consist
of: 

Unbilled
costs and estimated earnings are billed in accordance with applicable
contract terms. As of December  31,  2005, $ 2,115,000 of
the balances above, primarily commercial contracts, are not expected to
be collected within one year. There are no amounts billed under
retainage provisions. 

F-11 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC.       NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS December  31,
2005 

3.  
  ACCOUNTS
RECEIVABLE:  
   
 Accounts receivable consists of
trade receivables as
follows: 

4.  
  PLANT
AND EQUIPMENT:  
   
 Plant and equipment, at cost, consists
of the
following: 

5.  
  RELATED
PARTY TRANSACTIONS:  
   
 In October  2000, the Company
adopted a Greit Plan for the purpose of offering senior management a
deferred compensation death benefit plan (the
  Plan  ) that provides a tax-free benefit
and which is tax-neutral to the Company. Pursuant to the Plan, the
Company made a noninterest-bearing loan to an employee in the amount of
$150,000, which was used to purchase the Plan. The Plan has since been
terminated. The surrender value has been returned to the employee who
has placed the proceeds from the surrender value in an annuity, which
will mature to $150,000. Simultaneously, the employee purchased an
insurance policy in the amount of $150,000, of which the Company is the
sole beneficiary. The loan to the employee will be repaid to the
Company upon the maturity date of the annuity or upon the death of the
employee, whichever occurs
first. 

6.  
  DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS:  
   
 On January  22,  2002, the
Company announced a decision made by the board of directors as of
December  31,  2001 to close the Kolar facilities located
in Ithaca, New York, and liquidate its assets through a public auction
of its machinery and equipment and the private sale of its real
estate.On February  21,  2002, Kolar sold a substantial
portion of its machinery and equipment at an auction conducted by
Daley-Hodkin Corporation at Kolar s main facility in Ithaca, New
York. In connection with the discontinuance of Kolar s
operations, the  

F-12 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC.       NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS December  31,
2005 

Company incurred a one-time charge of
$10,422,816 related to the write-off of Kolar s assets, net of
expected proceeds, and an accrual for estimated losses during the
phase-out period. The disposition of Kolar s operations
represents a disposal of a business segment under APB Opinion No. 30 in
2001. Accordingly, results of the operation have been classified as
discontinued. On July  2,  2003, Kolar s corporate
entity was merged into the Company. For business segment reporting
purposes, Kolar s business results were previously classified as
the   Machining   segment. In 2003, the
Company sold the remaining assets for Kolar and recorded a gain of
$461,235. 

7.  
  LONG
TERM DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITY:  
   
 Long term debt
includes capital leases which expire during 2007. The leases require
monthly payments of principal and interest, imputed at an interest rate
of 5% and 9% per annum. 

Future minimum lease
payments under long-term debt are as
follows: 

In September  2003,
the Company entered into a three year, $5.0  million revolving
credit facility with JP Morgan Chase Bank, secured by the assets of the
Company. The facility specifies interest rates that range between the
Prime Rate and 225 basis points over LIBOR, depending on certain terms
and conditions. As of December  31,  2005, the Company has
not borrowed any funds pursuant to this
facility. 

F-13 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC.       NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS December  31,
2005 

8.  
  COMMITMENTS:  
   
 The
Company has employment agreements with six employees. The aggregate
future commitment under these agreements is as
follows: 

These
agreements provide for additional bonus payments that are calculated as
defined. 

The Company leases an office and warehouse
facility under a non-cancelable operating lease which expires in
December  2014. The aggregate future commitment under this
agreement is as
follows: 

9.  
  INCOME
TAXES:  
   
 The provision for income taxes consists of the
following: 

F-14 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC.       NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS December  31,
2005 

The
difference between the income tax provision computed at the federal
statutory rate and the actual tax provision is accounted for as
follows: 

The
components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as
follows:  

At
December  31,  2005 and 2004, the temporary differences
results from depreciation and difference in revenue recognized between
book and taxes. 

During 2004, the Company reversed
approximately $850,000 of valuation allowance, which was reducing the
deferred tax asset related to the Company s net operating loss
carryforwards to an amount that the Company deemed more likely than not
to be realized. The Company has no valuation allowance at
December  31,  2005. 

F-15 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC.       NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS December  31,
2005 

10.
  
  EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION
PLANS:  
   
 In April  1992, the Company adopted the
1992 Stock Option Plan (the   1992 Plan  ).
The 1992 Plan, for which 83,334 common shares are reserved for
issuance, provides for the issuance of either incentive stock options
or nonqualified stock options to employees, consultants or others who
provide services to the Company. The options may not be exercised more
than five years from the date of issuance. No more options may be
granted under the 1992 Plan. 

In 1995, the Company adopted
the 1995 Stock Option Plan (the   1995
Plan  ), as amended, for which 200,000 common shares are
reserved for issuance. The 1995 Plan provides for the issuance of
either incentive stock options or nonqualified stock options to
employees, consultants or others who provide services to the Company.
The options  exercise price is equal to the closing price of the
Company s shares on the day of issuance, except for incentive
stock options granted to the Company s president, which are
exercisable at 110% of the closing price of the Company s
shares on the date of issuance. 

In 1998, the Company
adopted the 1998 Performance Equity Plan (the   1998
Plan  ). The 1998 Plan, as amended, reserved 463,334
common shares for issuance. The 1998 Plan provides for the issuance of
either incentive stock options or nonqualified stock options to
employees, consultants or others who provide services to the Company.
The options  exercise price is equal to the closing price of the
Company s shares on the day of issuance, except for incentive
stock options granted to the Company s president, which are
exercisable at 110% of the closing price of the Company s
shares on the date of issuance. 

In 2000, the Company
adopted the Performance Equity Plan 2000 (the   2000
Plan  ). The 2000 Plan, as amended, reserved 1,230,000
common shares for issuance. The 2000 Plan provides for the issuance of
either incentive stock options or nonqualified stock options to
employees, consultants or others who provide services to the Company.
The options  exercise price is equal to the closing price of the
Company s shares on the day of issuance, except for incentive
stock options granted to the Company s president, which are
exercisable at 110% of the closing price of the Company s
shares on the date of issuance. 

F-16 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC.       NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS December  31,
2005 

A summary of the status of the
Company s four stock option plans as of December
31,  2005 and 2004 and changes during those years is as
follows: 

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
and exercisable at December  31,  2005: 

12.
  
  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN:  
   
 On
September  11,  1996, CPI s board of directors
instituted a defined contribution plan under Section 401(k) of the
Internal Revenue Code (the   Code  ). On
October  1,  1998, the Company amended and standardized
both the CPI and Kolar plans as required by the Code. Pursuant to the
amended plan, qualified employees may contribute a percentage of their
pretax eligible  

F-17 

CPI
AEROSTRUCTURES, INC.       NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS December  31,
2005 

compensation to the Plan and the Company
will match a percentage of each employee s contribution.
Additionally, the Company has a profit-sharing plan covering all
eligible employees. Contributions by the Company are at the discretion
of management. The amount of contributions recorded by the Company in
2005, 2004 and 2003 amounted to $91,318, $108,706 and $81,310,
respectively. 

15.
  
  SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY INFORMATION
(UNAUDITED)  

F-18 

In
accordance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the registrant
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly
authorized. 

Dated:
March  30,  2006  
   
  CPI AEROSTRUCTURES,
INC. (Registrant)  

By:  
   
  /s/
Edward J. Fred  

Edward J. Fred 
Chief Executive Officer, President,  Secretary and
Director  

In accordance with the Exchange Act, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated: 

Signature 
  
 Title 
  
 Date 

/s/
Eric Rosenfeld 
  
 Chairman
of the Board of Directors 
  
 March  30,
2006 

Eric Rosenfeld 

/s/ Edward J.
Fred 
  
 Chief Executive
Officer, President, Secretary and Director 
  
 March
30,  2006 

Edward J. Fred 

/s/
Arthur August 
  
 Chairman
Emeritus 
  
 March  30,
2006 

Arthur August 

/s/ Vincent
Palazzolo 
  
 Chief
Financial Officer 
  
 March  30,
2006 

Vincent Palazzolo 

/s/ Walter
Paulick 
  
 Director 
  
 March  30,
2006 

Walter
Paulick 

/s/ Kenneth
McSweeney 
  
 Director 
  
 March
30,  2006 

Kenneth
McSweeney 

/s/ A.C.
Providenti 
  
 Director 
  
 March
30,  2006 

A.C.
Providenti 

<EX-21.1>
 5
 file002.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

EXHIBIT
21.1 
 Subsidiaries of the
Registrant 
 None. 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 file003.htm
 CONSENT OF AUDITORS

Exhibit
23.1 
 
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM 
 We consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Company s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration
Numbers 333-11669, 333-42403 and 333-130077) and on Form S-3
(Registration Numbers 333-08391 and 333-08216), of our report dated
March  29,  2006, on our audit of the financial statements
of CPI Aerostructures, Inc. as of and for the years ended
December  31,  2005 and 2004, appearing in the 2005 Annual
Report on Form 10-K. 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 7
 file004.htm
 CONSENT OF ACCOUNTANTS

Exhibit
23.2 
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM 
 To the Board of Directors CPI
Aerostructures, Inc. 
 We hereby consent to
incorporation by reference in Registration Numbers 333-11669, 333-42403
and 333-130077 on Form S-8 and Registration Numbers 333-08391 and
333-08216 on Form S-3 of our report dated January  30,
2004 on the statements of income, shareholders  equity, and cash
flows of CPI Aerostructures, Inc. for the year ended December
31,  2003, which appear in the December  31,  2005
Annual Report on Form 10-K of CPI Aerostructures,
Inc. 
 
 /s/ Goldstein Golub Kessler
LLP 
 
 GOLDSTEIN GOLUB KESSLER LLP 
 New York, New
York 
 March 30,
2006 

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 file005.htm
 CERT CEO SECT 302

EXHIBIT
31.1 
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14 AND
15d-14 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS
AMENDED 
 I, Edward J. Fred, certify
that: 

1.  
 I have reviewed this Annual Report on
Form 10-K of CPI Aerostructures, Inc.; 

2.  
 Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered
by this report; 

3.  
 Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this
report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4.  
 The registrant s other
certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a)  
 Designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

(b)  
 [intentionally
omitted]; 

(c)  
 Evaluated the effectiveness of
the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

(d)  
 Disclosed in this report any change in
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and 

5.  
 The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and to the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a)  
 All significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

(b)  
 Any fraud, whether
or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Date: March  30,
2006 

By:   /s/ Edward J.
Fred                         
   
     Name:
Edward J. Fred     Title: Chief Executive
Officer,                   President and
Secretary 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 file006.htm
 CERT CFO SECT 302

EXHIBIT
31.2 
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13a-14 AND
15d-14 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS
AMENDED 
 I, Vincent Palazzolo, certify
that: 

1.  
 I have reviewed this Annual Report on
Form 10-K of CPI Aerostructures, Inc.; 

2.  
 Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered
by this report; 

3.  
 Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this
report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4.  
 The registrant s other
certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a)  
 Designed such disclosure
controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

(b)  
 [intentionally
omitted]; 

(c)  
 Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

(d)  
 Disclosed in this report any
change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal
quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and 

5.  
 The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and to the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a)  
 All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information;
and 

(b)  
 Any fraud, whether or not
material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Date: March  30,
2006 

By:  
   
   /s/ Vincent Palazzolo         
 Name: Vincent
Palazzolo Title: Chief Financial
Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 file007.htm
 CERT 906

EXHIBIT
32.1 
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION
1350 AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY
ACT OF 2002 
 In connection with the Annual Report of CPI
Aerostructures, Inc. (the   Company  ) on
Form 10-K for the year ended December  31,  2005 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
  Report  ), the undersigned, in the
capacities and on the date indicated below, hereby certifies pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
 1. the Report
fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
 2. the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operation of the
Company. 
 Dated: March  30,
2006 

/s/ Edward J.
Fred 
 Edward J. Fred Chief Executive Officer, President,
and Secretary 

By:   /s/ Vincent
Palazzolo 
                 Name: Vincent
Palazzolo                 Title: Chief Financial
Officer 

</EX-32.1>

