<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_943894_0001104659-06-021397_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1226403</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>142011</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>732970</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>26</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021397.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331172301
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021397
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EZENIA INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000943894
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT [3576]
		IRS NUMBER:				043114212
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-25882
		FILM NUMBER:		06730107

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		NORHTWEST PARK
		STREET 2:		63 THIRD AVE
		CITY:			BURLINGTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			01803
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6178632000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		NORTHWEST PARK
		STREET 2:		63 THIRD AVE
		CITY:			BURLINGTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			01803

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	VIDEOSERVER INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19950413

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 AMyWrMNQsPiALokzNybmkeColg3uIrT/Zmpn1TLGSaFmQIgtgwSAULWPPMWvls3O
 V9V3+jrT3SPbJ3JiYTS9eg==

 0001104659-06-021397.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-2248_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   WASHINGTON,
D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-K   

   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
15(d) 
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

   For
the year ended December 31, 2005   

   Commission
File Number 0-25882   

   EZENIA! INC.   

  (Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)  

DELAWARE   
     (State or other jurisdiction of 
  incorporation or organization)   

04-3114212    
  (I.R.S. employer 
  identification number)  

14 Celina Ave, Suite 17-18,
Nashua, New Hampshire 03063   

  (Address of principal
executive offices, including zip code)  

   (781) 505-2100   

  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)  

Securities Registered
Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

  None  

   Securities Registered
Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   

  Common Stock $.01 par value  

  Indicate by check mark if
the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.   Yes    o     No    x  

  Indicate by check mark if
the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d) of the Act.   Yes    o     No    x  

  Indicate by check mark
whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.   Yes    x     No    o  

  Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.   Yes    o     No    x  

  Indicate by check mark
whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerate filer  and  large
accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Large
Accelerated Filer   Yes    o     No    x     Accelerated Filer   Yes    o     No    x     Non-Accelerated
Filer   Yes    x     No    o  

  Indicate by checkmark
whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act).   Yes    o     No    x  

  The aggregate market value
of the voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant was $28,146,459 (computed by reference to the price at which the
Registrant s common stock was last sold on the OTC Bulletin Board on June 30,
2005).  

  The number of shares outstanding of the Registrant s
common stock as of March 24, 2006 was 14,623,422.  

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE    

  Portions
of the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to Shareholders in connection
with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 24, 2006 are
incorporated by reference into Part III hereof. With the exception of the
portion of such Proxy Statement that is expressly incorporated herein, such
Proxy Statement shall not be deemed filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Ezenia!
Inc. 
2005 Form 10-K Annual Report 
Table of Contents   

Page   

PART I    

Item 1.   

Business   

3  

Item
  1A.   

Risk
  Factors   

10  

Item
  2.   

Description
  of Property   

13  

PART II    

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
  Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

13  

Item
  6.   

Selected
  Financial Data   

14  

Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations   

15  

Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
  Risk   

23  

Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

24  

Item 9A .  

Controls and Procedures   

43  

PART III    

Item 10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

43  

Item 11.   

Executive Compensation    

43  

Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

44  

Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

44  

Item 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

44  

PART IV    

Item 15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statements Schedules   

45  

Signatures   

47  

The Company s trademarks include Ezenia!, the Ezenia!
Logo, InfoWorkSpace, LaunchPad, and Encounter.  All other trademarks referred to in this
document are the property of their respective companies.  

2  

PART I   

     ITEM 1.                    BUSINESS 

  Founded in 1991, Ezenia! Inc. ( Ezenia  or the  Company )
a Delaware corporation, develops and markets products that enable organizations
to provide high-quality group communication and collaboration capabilities to
commercial, governmental, consumer and institutional users. Ezenia s products
allow individuals and groups, regardless of proximity constraints, to interact
and share information in a natural, spontaneous way voice-to-voice,
face-to-face, mouse-to-mouse, keyboard-to-keyboard flexibly, securely and in
real-time. Using our products, individuals can interact through a natural
meeting experience, allowing groups to work together effectively and
disseminate vital information quickly in a secure environment.  

  Ezenia offers one of the most comprehensive
commercially available lines of collaborative products. Ezenia s InfoWorkSpace
(IWS) software product, combined with its legacy videoconferencing products,
enables voice communication, instant messaging, white boarding, virtual workspaces,
and video conferences across a wide range of networks including local area
networks (LAN), intranets, the Internet, and circuit-based networks. Furthermore,
because Ezenia products include both software-only solutions and configurable
hardware solutions, they can be deployed with relative ease at small sites or
in locations with a large number of users.  

  Ezenia historically has
sold the legacy videoconferencing products worldwide through leading resellers,
integrators and marketers of video collaboration, and networking solutions, and
will continue to do so as long as demand exists. Most recently, for the IWS
product and services, Ezenia sells to customers in the Federal government,
mostly in the Department of Defense (DoD) and the intelligence community,
either directly, or in many instances, in partnership with the premier defense
contractors and/or integrators. It is in Ezenia s interest to leverage these
partnerships with well-established contractors and/or integrators to further
expand the deployment and provide the support of IWS in large-scale
opportunities.  

     Company
Background and Evolution True Collaboration versus Videoconferencing   

  In 1991, Ezenia, known at the time as VideoServer,
designed, developed, manufactured, and sold Multipoint Control Systems or Units
(MCS or MCU) for both the circuit-oriented, Integrated Services Digital Network
(ISDN)-based and packet-switched, Internet Protocol (IP)-based
videoconferencing applications. Ezenia s MCS was unique at the time with its
PC-based, flexible hardware design approach and system configurations,
leveraging commercial off-the-shelf base operating systems. At that time,
traditional videoconferencing vendors concentrated mostly on the development of
more and more sophisticated, standard-based endpoints to be used in
point-to-point videoconferencing. Ezenia focused its business, not on the
endpoints, but on systems deployed in the infrastructure backroom, to enable
three or more sites or parties involved in videoconferencing to properly communicate
among themselves, by switching video sources based on audio processing of
current and immediately preceding speakers. Ezenia s technical advantages were
derived by masking and compensating for incompatibilities between endpoints
from different manufacturers, algorithmic transcoding, compensation for
different bandwidth requirements, and simultaneous multi-windowed video
arrangements on the monitor known as  Hollywood Squares , just to name a few.  

  For the circuit-switched market segment, Ezenia offered
the Series 2000 MCS which can scale up to forty eight (48) ports or sites
with a variety of network capabilities including but not limited to V.35, T1 and
E1 interfaces, Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) and Frame Relay. Multiple Series 2000
MCS can be cascaded together to allow for large-scale videoconferences. To this
day, the Series 2000 MCS is still considered the cornerstone of rock solid
reliability in the industry and in many customer installations. Ezenia still
produces, ships, and provides support for the Series 2000 MCS.  

3     

For the packet-switched market segment, Ezenia offered
a low-end, software-only solution NetServer 1000 which provides a
cost-effective solution for departmental applications. For comparable
deployments to its ISDN counterparts, Ezenia offered the NetServer 3000 MCS,
which can also scale up to forty eight (48) ports or sites. Similarly, multiple
NetServer 3000 MCS can be cascaded together to support large-scale video
conferences. Ezenia also offered the NetGate which, with its associated
gatekeeper software, controls, monitors, polices, and facilitates
communications traffic between the ISDN and IP environments. Ezenia still
produces, ships, and provides support for the NetServer and NetGate MCS.  

  In the late 90 s, Ezenia fully realized the
limitations and narrow applications of its videoconferencing products which,
among many deficiencies, are monolithic, require highly specialized support and
services, stand apart from the normal office environment that most information
workers are accustomed to, and do not provide a solution to the need to truly
collaborate and disseminate information in real time. Contrary to how most
videoconferencing vendors would like to indoctrinate potential customers, video in
particular talking heads as in the case of most video conferences was and is,
now more than ever, far from being the  piece de resistance  of true,
meaningful real-time collaboration. Furthermore, its monolithic approach,
whereby you either get a successful videoconference session or get nothing,
relegates all other more critical collaboration activities second to video
talking heads. Most importantly, the lack of presence awareness detection and
the inability to leverage the web for ease of access prevent flexible,
on-demand, free-flowing collaboration sessions whereby participants can come,
go, or be invited at will.  

  In March 2001,
Ezenia completed the first phase of its transformation with the acquisition of
the IWS business from General Dynamics. As an application solution and technology
built on top of Placeware s (see Third Party Technology note below) web
conferencing technology, IWS:  

             Allows
users to be aware of the online presence of colleagues, enables true multimedia
collaboration sessions starting with the simplest instant messaging
(keyboard-to-keyboard) and expanding to the most complex all-encompassing
(mouse-to-mouse) sharing and dissemination of mission critical information
simultaneously with in-session, super-imposed audio conferencing and/or video
streaming; 

             Leverages
commercially off-the-shelf base operating systems such as the Windows and
Solaris platforms; and 

             Fits
into the virtual office environment that most information workers are familiar
with. 

  The use and growth of
real-time collaborative technologies within commercial or governmental
enterprises, while still early in its adoption curve, are beginning to
accelerate. The investment in information and collaborative technologies helps
customers flatten their organizations, improve enterprise wide communication, shorten
the decision-making process, and facilitate real-time reactions to critical
issues. Rather than just providing access to inert data stored on a server, the
goal today is to find ways to enable information workers to collaborate and
share their expertise to derive knowledge from databases in real time and in a
secure environment. Collaborative technologies are about creating informational
value through better, faster and more efficient human interaction and
cooperation, not just more data. Businesses and governmental organizations
today need solutions that make it easier for people to work together, share
information and expertise, coordinate activities across departments, networks,
agencies, building complexes, facilities spread all over the country, and field
deployments around the world.  

     Products   

  Ezenia s expertise is in
developing products that deliver highly secure and flexible support for
informational collaboration, in-session audio conferencing, and video streaming
capabilities across a wide range of platforms. The Company s products have been
designed with a scaleable, modular architecture to give customers the
flexibility to add capacity, processing power, and conferencing features as the
customer   

4     

network
and application requirements grow. Using a common set of hardware and software
building blocks, customers can choose from a wide range of product
configurations that differ in capacity, price, network connectivity and
features, all of which share the same operating software user interface. Products
may be configured for use in customer premises environments or may be
configured with specialized packaging for use in a telephone carrier s central
office setting. The Company believes a key differentiator for its products is
the built-in robust security features, allowing them to be installed in some of
the highest clearance and security sites in the market.  

      InfoWorkSpace    

  IWS is a comprehensive suite of collaboration
applications designed to allow any organization to more efficiently
communicate, particularly when attempting to work as, and within, a group. From
an overall perspective, IWS, when used effectively can reduce or even eliminate
dependency on travel, traditional video conferencing, traditional audio
conferencing and the phone, and even e-mail and file servers. Essentially, IWS
is like a corporate campus or enterprise whose resources can be accessed by an
information worker through his or her own desktop or laptop PC. Users can
browse through the virtual campus, facility, or building to locate the room to
be used for a meeting, or just pick the needed contact(s) and initiate the
meeting with the click of the mouse.  

  Our customers, including the U.S. intelligence
community, the U.S. Joint Forces Command, and various branches of the U.S.
Armed Forces including the Marines, Navy, Air Force and Army, have leveraged
the flexibility of IWS to aid in a myriad of missions. From daily mission
briefs to medivac procedures in Afghanistan to operational support in Fallujah,
IWS has increasingly become a vital part of the U.S. defense network. The
stability, scalability and security of IWS allows our customers to depend on
our software to complete mission-critical assignments and save lives in some of
the world s most dangerous areas.  

  At a basic level, IWS is a cross-platform solution in
a box, supporting both UNIX and Windows base operating systems. A standard
software suite comes complete with our server software package, database,
application server, and user directory along with a number of ancillary add-ons.
This suite provides a self-sufficient workgroup environment for a user base of
up to several hundred users. However, with a few simple system configurations,
IWS servers can be federated in such a way that multiple servers can trust one
another in order to support collaboration across an enterprise with thousands
of participants.  

  IWS security infrastructure is built upon the best
practices that have been in use in operating systems for decades. Much like a
UNIX administrator can limit access to a directory or even a file to a limited
set of users, IWS administrators can lock rooms down to restrict users from
seeing sensitive data that is outside their area of responsibility. Permission-based
access allows administrators to finely tune a user s access profile to the file
level. Data can be encrypted using standard SSL protocols and access can be
controlled with PKI and X.509 certificates. All data within the application can
be audited and searched for specific words or patterns of words. IWS provides a
high level of security capabilities as well as a safety net to capture any
breaches that may arise from human errors.  

  The stability, scalability, flexibility and security
capabilities of IWS are critically important for our customers, but the true power
of IWS is in its collaboration applications. Users can participate in an
interactive conference with absolutely no set up procedures. This is a
significant leap forward from where the industry was just a few years ago,
using videoconferences as the only interactive medium. With IWS, no longer is a
heavy piece of hardware required at each terminal point of collaboration. No
longer is it necessary to schedule a conference with a bridge operator, and no
longer is a whole new network infrastructure required to support an interactive
conferencing capability. Information workers, once logged in to IWS, can
initiate a conference by going to a virtual room and inviting the participants
as needed. Rooms are either pre-defined or created on demand as needs dictate. Once
inside a room, either by   

5     

joining or being invited
into a session, participants can have an audio conference straight from the
software. No set up is required. No additional cost is incurred. Participants
even can be in multiple rooms at the same time, offering a more productive
virtual environment than in the physical world. Participants can share and work
on documents from the file cabinet associated with a room. Users can have an
interactive white board session and save the results. Users also can manage
their calendar and participate in message boards and save that information to
the server where they can access it any time from any place.  

  A high-level
summary of IWS features and functions is listed below:  

             Text
chat, in a one-to-one arrangement, in a conference environment, or in multiple
combinations of one-on-one and/or conference environments; 

             Audio
chat, in a one-to-one arrangement, in a conference environment, or in multiple
combinations of one-on-one and/or conference environments; 

             Interactive
whiteboard which all users can see and modify in real time; 

             Application
sharing allowing the screen view of any application on any desktop or laptop PC
of any information worker to be broadcasted to all other participants; 

             Secured
file cabinet, from which permission-based access allows for documents to be
stored, retrieved, and monitored at any time from any place; 

             Multi-Level
security allows users of one security level to have real-time collaboration
sessions with users at another security level; 

             SSL
and PKI encryption, which, when configured, renders traffic secure across the
wire; 

             Full
system auditing, which allows all data and actions to be audited and
searchable; 

             Instant
messaging, a lightweight application that provides all interactive
capabilities; and 

             Virtual meeting area, a
more robust application that provides both real-time collaborative capabilities
as well as static functions like file cabinet, message board, and calendaring. 

      Encounter MCS
Family    

  The Encounter
product line includes:  

             Encounter
3000 NetServer: real-time collaboration server designed to support large
enterprise and service provider customers; 

             Encounter
3000 NetGate: gateway solution that allows traditional videoconferencing
systems to participate in IP-based collaboration sessions; and 

             Encounter 1000 NetServer:
real-time collaboration server geared towards smaller, departmental workgroups
or more distributed organizations. 

6     

Series 2000
MCS    

  The Series 2000
MCS product line, designed for switched digital circuit networks, includes a
number of platform configurations which can be expanded through customer
selection of optional processing modules and software applications. The
following table lists the configurations offered by the Company:  

MODEL   

CAPACITY   

TARGET MARKET/APPLICATION   

2007  

8
  users   

Mid-range CPE for
  distributed network environments  

2020  

48
  users  

Large CPE/central office
  network with extensive multimedia applications  

CO    

48 users  

High availability central office server  

Market and Channels   

  Ezenia markets its IWS products and related services
to customers within the US federal government, primarily to the US DoD and to
the US intelligence community worldwide. Ezenia also provides these products
and services to the defense and intelligence organizations of foreign allies of
the United States government.  

  IWS products and services are licensed on an annual
subscription and renewal basis, during which software updates and basic
technical support are included as part of base offerings. Enhanced service
offerings are also offered in a subscription model. Training, installation, and
customization are sold on an incidental basis.  

  The worldwide government marketplace is best
understood as a matrix of customers, sales vehicles (contracts), and sales channels.
Ezenia employs a sales model which is an analog to this government market
matrix. IWS products and related services are available to specific segments of
the government, using various vehicles, including Ezenia s own GSA Schedule,
and multiple channels both directly, with the Company s own sales force, and
indirectly. For indirect channels, Ezenia partners with General Dynamics, SAIC,
and Northrop Grumman among others.  

  In fiscal year 2005, approximately 43% of our sales of
IWS products and related services were through our indirect channels. Ezenia s
top three end-user customers for IWS products and related services in 2005 were
US Joint Forces Command, Defense Intelligence Agency, and the US Army.  

  Meanwhile, our legacy MCS sales are primarily to international
customers and end users.  In 2005, Ezenia
delivered these products through distributors, dealers, vertical market
resellers, and systems integrators, as well as directly to end-users. Revenue
from international markets accounted for approximately 3%, 2%, and 14% of our
revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003,
respectively.  

  Ezenia conducts its sales
and marketing activities from its principal offices in Nashua, New Hampshire,
as well as from two other sales locations in the United States.  

     Research and Product Development   

  Ezenia believes that its future success depends on its
ability to continue to enhance and expand its existing enterprise collaboration
products and to develop new products that maintain its technology leadership.
Ezenia has invested and will continue to invest in the development of products
and core technologies while also leveraging the integration of  best-of-breed 
software components through strategic partnerships. Extensive product
development input is obtained via direct feedback from end users and suggested
improvements from strategic partners and resellers. We carefully monitor the
migration of industry standards and remain committed to developing products
utilizing such standards. This includes the development of interoperable
collaboration products to meet either industry needs and/or DoD-driven   

7     

interoperability criteria,
while maintaining a keen focus on the security aspects of enterprise
collaboration, including solutions in the web conferencing arena.  

  As of December 31,
2005, Ezenia s research and development staff consisted primarily of software
engineers augmented with US-based and US-citizen software contractors. Many of
our software engineers carry top-secret levels of security clearance. The Company s
net research and development expenditures were approximately $1.2 million, $1.1
million, and $1.9 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, representing
approximately 9%, 10%, and 23% of revenue, respectively. All software
development costs have been expensed as incurred because costs eligible for
capitalization have not been material to date.  

     Customer Support and Service   

  Ezenia provides technical support and services to its
resellers and direct customers. A high level of continuing service and support
is critical to our objective of developing long-lasting relationships with
customers and partners. Ezenia s partners and resellers offer a broad range of
support including installation, maintenance and on-site and headquarters-level
technical support of products to their end-user customers. Ezenia provides a
comprehensive service program including problem management, training,
diagnostic tools, software updates and upgrades, as well as spare parts
programs to facilitate and supplement the efforts of our partners and
resellers.  

  Ezenia offers a technical support hotline to its
resellers and customers, which is staffed by our network engineers who
generally provide either immediate or same-day responses to most questions. As
our products have built-in remote diagnostic capabilities, most problems can be
diagnosed without incurring travel or on-site visits. When necessary, however,
support engineers are dispatched to the customer s facility for critical
situations. All of our support engineers carry various levels of security
clearance.  

  With respect to the Series 2000 and Encounter
MCS, Ezenia warranties related software and hardware products for 90 days. We
also offer post-warranty support programs ranging from services on a
time-and-material basis to full-service contracts on a 24-hour, 7-day-a-week
basis as well as training courses.  

     Manufacturing Series 2000
and Encounter Systems   

  Ezenia s manufacturing
operations consist primarily of materials management, quality control, test
engineering, production, shipping and logistics related to its legacy
videoconferencing hardware products. Ezenia employs an outsourced manufacturing
model in which it designs the significant hardware subassemblies for its
products and uses independent third-party contract assembly companies to
perform printed circuit board assembly and other production activities with
internal efforts generally limited to final product configuration, assembly and
testing. This manufacturing model offers the capability to quickly fulfill
orders with limited lead times thus providing enhanced customer satisfaction
and improved inventory management. Because     of
the generally short cycle between order and shipment and because the majority
of our sales in each quarter result from orders booked in that quarter, Ezenia
does not have a material backlog.  

     Third Party Technology   

  Ezenia licenses technology
from third parties, including software which is integrated with internally
developed software, and used in our products to perform key functions. There
can be no assurance that functionally similar technology will continue to be
available on commercially reasonable terms in the future, or at all. In
particular, in February 2005 we entered into a new agreement with
Microsoft Corporation, with an effective date of January 1, 2005, to
extend an existing software distribution license agreement through
December 2007. The software distribution license agreement allows us to
integrate Microsoft s Live Communication software into our IWS product line.  

8  

Competition   

  The market for multimedia collaboration is an emerging
segment with a variety of either new vendors entering the competitive landscape
or old vendors from existing industries, such as legacy videoconferencing,
attempting to claim a new turf. Furthermore, multimedia collaboration can also
be grouped into two main groups: real-time synchronous solutions versus
asynchronous products a la antiquated Lotus Notes. While most vendors
adopt the client-server architecture, a very few insist on the merit of
peer-to-peer. Still yet, large vendors offer both types of products. From
another perspective, vendors could be classified into two classes of providers.
The first group provides customer-premise solutions, while the second
implements a hosted environment.  

  Even though Ezenia business primarily focuses on the
real-time synchronous, client-server, customer-premise market segment within
the government, depending upon the possible perspectives, various vendors could
be considered as likely competitors. From the legacy videoconferencing
industry, Polycom, RADvision and Tandberg are legitimate contenders.
Established industry giants such as AOL, Cisco, EMC, Google, IBM, Microsoft,
Oracle and, more recently, Adobe with its acquisition of Macromedia, among
others, offer a wide variety of solutions ranging from simple instant messaging
to complete offerings. In addition, a multitude of smaller and well-respected
companies such as WebEx, Raindance, Saba, Jabber, Interwise, etc... constitutes
a new breed of emerging contenders in this intensely contested market segment.  

  Many of these companies, as well as other current and
potential competitors, have substantially greater financial, technical, and
sales and marketing resources than Ezenia. If we are unable to retain our
existing customers in the US government, or are unable to convince a sufficient
number of new companies or customers with an interest in collaborative
technologies to adopt our IWS collaborative software product over alternative
technologies marketed by our competitors, our financial results will suffer,
through price reductions and loss of market share.  

  With respect to our legacy
videoconferencing hardware products, we consider our primary videoconferencing
competitors to be Polycom, RADvision and Tandberg Telecom.  

  The principal competitive
factors in the market for multimedia collaboration are, and should continue to
be, breadth of capabilities, security, stability, reliability, price,
performance, network management capabilities, customer support and
interoperability. We plan to compete by offering the best-of-breed enterprise
solutions encompassing all of these factors. However, we cannot be certain that
potential customers will be attracted to our products, especially if our
competitors invest substantially more money into their products and technology.  

     Proprietary Rights   

  Ezenia relies on a
combination of contractual rights, trade secrets and copyright laws to
establish and protect its intellectual property rights. We believe that,
because of the rapid pace of technological change in the data communications
and telecommunications industries, intellectual property protection for its
products is only one factor in our success, complementing the knowledge,
abilities and experience of our employees, the frequency of our product
enhancements, our relationships with our partners, our relationships with our
customers and their satisfaction with the performance of IWS, the effectiveness
of our marketing activities, and the responsiveness and quality of our
services.  

  In August 2002,
Ezenia entered into an agreement with Tandberg Telecom AS to sell all patents
and pending applications related to its videoconferencing products, which was
completed in October 2002. In exchange
for an up-front license fee of $1.25 million, a loan for an additional $1.25
million which was forgiven at the closing, and an additional $2.4 million also
received at the closing, Ezenia granted Tandberg a fully paid, non-exclusive,
non-transferable license under the patents and pending applications relating to
our videoconferencing technology (the video patent portfolio). Additionally, we
retained a fully   

9     

paid, non-exclusive, non-transferable license for our
use in connection with its videoconferencing and enterprise collaboration
products.  

  In June 2000, Ezenia
settled its patent infringement suit against Accord Networks Ltd. (Accord) in
the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The
settlement agreement provided, among other things, that Ezenia receive $6.5
million, which the Company received net of foreign tax withholding of $975
thousand, pending a resolution of certain tax matters related to the settlement
with the tax authorities in Israel. In April 2004, Ezenia reached a
settlement agreement with the Israeli Tax Commission (ITC), resulting in the
receipt by the Company of cash proceeds related to the disputed amount, net of
interest earned and associated fees, of approximately $706 thousand.  

     Employees   

  At December 31, 2005,
Ezenia employed 46 people, including 20 in research and development, 10 in
customer support, 8 in sales and marketing, and 8 in finance and
administration. None of our employees are represented by a labor organization.  

  Ezenia s success depends,
to a significant degree, upon the continuing contributions of its key
management, sales, marketing and research and development personnel, many of
whom would be difficult to replace, including Khoa Nguyen, the Company s Chief
Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer. We do not carry
key-man life insurance on any of our employees, including Mr. Nguyen. We
do not have employment contracts with our key personnel other than Mr. Nguyen.
We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability
to attract additional key employees and retain our key employees.  

     Availability of
Filings   

  You
may access, free of charge, through our website at www.ezenia.com, our Annual
Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports, all
filed pursuant to Section 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The information contained on our web site is
not incorporated by reference into this document and should not be considered a
part of this report. Our web site address is included in this document as an
inactive textual reference only.  

     ITEM 1A.            RISK
FACTORS 

     Liquidity and history of losses.         As
further described under Liquidity and Capital Resources, management believes,
although there can be no assurances, due to the growth and  acceptance of our IWS product, the expected
growth of Internet-based collaboration products in general, and our successive
quarters of profitability and continued vigilance on cost control, that our
cash and available resources will enable us to continue as a viable entity.     There can be no assurances that we can
achieve our goal of showing consistent quarterly revenue and profit growth,
which are both largely dependent on whether we can meet our future new order
bookings targets. 

     Dependence on major customers.           While we are focusing efforts on broadening our
customer base, sales to a relatively small number of customers within the US
government, specifically within the DoD and the intelligence community, have
accounted for a significant portion of revenue. This concentration of customers
may cause revenues and operating results to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter
based on major customers  requirements, and the timing of their orders and
shipments. Our agreements with customers generally do not include minimum purchase
commitments or exclusivity arrangements. Our operating results could be
materially and adversely affected if any present or future major customer were
to choose to reduce its level of orders, were to change to another vendor for
purchases of a similar product, were to realize a reduction in approved funding
for collaborative technologies, or were to delay paying or fail to pay amounts
due to us. 

10     

Third Party Technology.       Ezenia utilizes certain technology which
it licenses from third parties, including software which is integrated with
internally developed software, and used in the Company s products to perform
key functions. There can be no assurance that functionally similar technology
will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future,
or at all. In particular, in February 2005 Ezenia entered into a new agreement
with Microsoft Corporation to extend an existing software distribution license
agreement. The software distribution license agreement allows Ezenia to integrate
Microsoft s Live Communication software with our proprietary software, to
create IWS. 

     Reduced demand for traditional videoconferencing
products.           The
demand for traditional videoconferencing technology has experienced a rapid
decline. Ezenia s videoconferencing product and related services revenue
declined to approximately $495 thousand in 2005, from approximately $633
thousand in 2004 and approximately $2.3 million in 2003. We expect that sales
of this legacy hardware technology will continue to decline in 2006. 

     Evolving markets.           Sales of real-time collaboration
products account for a significant and increasing portion of Ezenia s revenue.
Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the acceptance and the rate of
adoption of Internet-based collaboration products, in general, and the IWS
product, in particular. There can be no assurance that any of the markets for
our products will develop to the extent, in the manner, or at the rate
anticipated by us. In addition, future prices that we are able to obtain for
our products may decrease as a result of new product introductions by others,
price competition, technological change or other factors. 

     Rapid technological change.           The market for our products is characterized by
rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, emerging network
architectures and frequent new product introductions. The adoption rate of new
technologies and products may adversely impact near-term growth of the
conferencing market as users evaluate the alternatives. We have invested, and
for 2006 plans to continue to invest, in product development and products
incorporating certain of these new technologies. Many other companies are also
developing products incorporating these new technologies that are competitive
with our current and future offerings. Ezenia s success will depend, in part,
upon our ability through continued investments to maintain technological
leadership, to enhance and expand our existing product offerings, and to select
and develop in a timely manner new products that achieve market acceptance. 

     Competition.           The market for multimedia collaboration products is
highly competitive. Ezenia expects competition to increase significantly in the
future, as the market for similar products is expected to significantly expand.
A number of companies have introduced or announced their intention to introduce
products that could be competitive with Ezenia s products, and the rapidly
evolving nature of the markets in which Ezenia competes may attract other new
entrants, as they perceive opportunities. Some of the Ezenia s current and
potential competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial,
technical, sales, and marketing resources. If we are unable to retain our
existing customers in the US government, or were unable to convince a
sufficient number of new companies or customers with an interest in
collaborative technologies to adopt the IWS collaborative software product over
alternative technologies marketed by our competitors, our financial results
would suffer. 

  The principal competitive
factors in the market for multimedia collaboration are, and should continue to
be, breadth of capabilities, demonstrated interoperability, price, performance,
network management capabilities, reliability, scalability, customer support and
security. Ezenia plans to compete by offering collaboration and enterprise
products with a broad range of capabilities and high performance. However, we
cannot be certain that potential customers will be attracted to our products,
especially if competitors were to invest substantially more money into their
products and technology.  

     Acceptance of IWS in the commercial market.             In 2001, Ezenia
purchased the operating assets and intellectual property of the IWS business
unit of General Dynamics Electronic Systems. We entered into the purchase
agreement with the expectation that the transaction would result in certain
benefits including,  

11     

among other things,
benefits relating to expanded and complementary product offerings, enhanced
revenues, increased market opportunity, new technology, the addition of
engineering personnel, and the expectation that we would be successful in
expanding the market for IWS products, both within certain organizations of the
US government, including the DoD and the intelligence community, but also
commercially. There can be no assurance of success in the commercial market for
IWS or other products that we may introduce, in 2006 or beyond.  

     Protection of proprietary technology.           Ezenia s success depends, to a large extent, on its
ability to protect its proprietary technology. Ezenia relies primarily on a
combination of contractual rights, trade secrets and copyrights to protect its
intellectual property rights, including the fully-paid, non-exclusive,
non-transferable license granted by Tandberg to Ezenia for use in connection
with its videoconferencing and enterprise collaboration products. 

     Retention of key employees.             Ezenia s success
depends, to a significant degree, upon the continuing contributions of its key
management, sales, marketing, and research and development personnel, many of
whom would be difficult to replace, including Khoa Nguyen, Ezenia s Chief
Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer. Ezenia does not carry a key-man life
insurance on any of its employees, including Mr. Nguyen. Ezenia
does not have employment contracts with its key personnel other than Mr. Nguyen.
Ezenia believes that its future success will depend in large part upon its
ability to attract and retain such key employees. 

     Stock price volatility.             The market price of Ezenia s
common stock, like that of other technology companies, is highly volatile and
is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in
operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products
by Ezenia or its competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities
analysts or other events or factors. Ezenia s stock price may also be affected
by broader market trends unrelated to Ezenia s performance. 

     Market for Company s common equity.       The
shares of the Ezenia s common stock were delisted from The Nasdaq National
Market in August 2003 and are now traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a
result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of the securities due
to low trading volume or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of
the securities. In addition, Ezenia is subject to Rule 15c2-11
promulgated by the SEC. If Ezenia fails to meet criteria set forth in such Rule (for
example, by failing to file periodic reports as required by the Exchange Act),
various practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell securities
governed by the Rule to persons other than established customers and
accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must
make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received
the purchaser s written consent to the transactions prior to sale.
Consequently, the Rule may have a material adverse effect on the ability
of broker-dealers to sell Ezenia s securities, which may materially affect the
ability of shareholders to sell the securities in the secondary market. The
delisting could make trading Ezenia s shares more difficult for investors,
potentially leading to further declines in the share price. It would also make
it more difficult for Ezenia to raise additional capital. Due to the delisting,
Ezenia would also incur additional costs under state blue-sky laws if Ezenia
were to sell equity. 

     Board of director recruitment.           Currently we have six directors on
our Board, five of whom meet the standards for independence as specified by the
SEC and the national stock exchanges. Historically, we have strived to have an
audit committee comprised of at least three independent directors, as required
by the national stock exchanges. Currently we have three directors serving on
our audit committee, all of whom meet the standards for independence as
specified by the SEC. One of our directors, Gerald P. Carmen, has the necessary
financial expertise to serve as chairman of our audit committee. We are
continuing in our attempts to identify additional qualified individuals to
serve as independent directors of Ezenia. However, the market for highly
qualified individuals available and willing to serve as directors to companies
similar to ours is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able
to identify, recruit and ultimately secure the services of such individuals in
a timely manner or at all. 

12  

ITEM
2.                    DESCRIPTION OF
PROPERTY 

  Ezenia s corporate office
and principal research, development and manufacturing facility is located in
Nashua, New Hampshire, in an approximately 6,000 square foot facility. In
March 2005, we entered into an agreement to move our corporate office from
Burlington, Massachusetts at the conclusion of its lease in June 2005. We
decided to make the move as part of an effort to reduce expenses and excess
capacity. Ezenia also has a sales and service office located in Sterling, Virginia
and a research, development and service office located in Colorado Springs,
Colorado. As of December 31, 2003, Ezenia had closed all foreign offices,
and therefore, no longer has any leases outside of the United States.  

     PART II   

     ITEM
5.                    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S
COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES 

  Since
2003, Ezenia s common stock has been quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, under
the symbol  EZEN.OB . The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated,
the high and low bid or sale prices per share of our common stock as reported
on the OTC Bulletin Board.  

As of March 24, 2006, Ezenia had approximately
121 shareholders of record. This does not reflect persons or entities that hold
their stock in nominee or  street  name through various brokerage firms. Ezenia
has not paid dividends on its common stock. Ezenia anticipates it will reinvest
future earnings, if any, and therefore, does not intend to pay dividends in the
foreseeable future.  

  See Part III, Item 12
for information regarding securities authorized for issuance under Ezenia s
equity compensation plans.  

13     

ITEM
6.                    SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA 

(1)             2005
amounts include a tax benefit of $91 thousand, related to a reduction in the
valuation allowance associated with deferred tax assets. 

  (2)             2004
amounts include a tax benefit of $1.4 million, or $0.10 per share, related to a
net benefit of approximately $819 thousand as a result of the ITC settlement,
and approximately $608 thousand relating to a tax refund for tax years 1996,
1997, and 1998. 

  (3)             2003
amounts include a tax benefit of $267 thousand, or $0.02 per share, related to
a change in the estimate for potential liabilities related to federal and state
income taxes paid in prior years. 

  (4)             2002
amounts include a write-down of inventory of $3.7 million, or $0.27 per share,
an impairment of goodwill of $10.7 million, or $0.78 per share relating to the
change in accounting principle, an impairment of fixed assets of $2.3 million,
or $0.17 per share, a tax benefit of $2.7 million, or $0.19 per share, related
primarily to a tax refund, and a gain on sale of patents of $4.9 million, or
$.36 per share. 

  (5)             2001
amounts include a charge to operations of $2.0 million, or $0.15 per share,
related to the restructuring of certain of the Company s operations, a
write-down of goodwill and other long-term assets totaling $7.1 million, or
$0.52 per share, and a tax benefit of $2.2 million, or $0.16 per share,
relating to the reversal of reserves recorded in prior years. 

  Effective January 1,
2002, Ezenia adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.   This statement affects Ezenia s treatment of
goodwill and other intangible assets. Had SFAS No. 142 been adopted for the
year ended December 31, 2001, the net loss and loss per share would have
been $28.3 million and $2.07 per share, respectively. No other years presented
above would have been affected.  

14  

ITEM 7.                    MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

     Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

     SAFE
HARBOR FOR FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS   

   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) should be read in conjunction
with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Item 8 of this
Annual Report. MD A contains forward-looking statements including
statements concerning drivers of revenue growth; our plans to improve
performance and execution; changes in accounting principles and changes in
actual or assumed tax liabilities; product demand and growth opportunities;
industry trend  and conditions, our use
of direct and indirect sales channels; expense monitoring and management; our
anticipated capital requirements and working capital needs; and our anticipated
reinvestment of future earnings. These forward-looking statements are neither
promises nor guarantees, but involve risks and uncertainties that may cause
actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking
statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not
limited to, our ability to maintain or accurately forecast revenue growth or to
anticipate and accurately forecast a decline in revenue from any of our
products or services; our ability to compete in an intensely competitive
market; our ability to develop and introduce new products or enhancements on
schedule and that respond to customer requirements and rapid technological
change; new product introductions and enhancements by competitors; our ability
to select and implement appropriate business models, plans and strategies and
to execute on them; our ability to identify, hire, train, motivate, and retain
highly qualified management/other key personnel 
and our ability to manage changes and transitions in management/other
key personnel; the impact of global economic and political conditions on our
business; unauthorized use or misappropriation of our intellectual property; as
well as the risk factors discussed herein and in other periodic reports filed
with the SEC. Readers should not place undue reliance on any such
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We
disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any such statement to
reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or
circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the
likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the
forward-looking statements.   

     Overview   

  The growth and acceptance of the IWS product line
continued for the quarter and the year ending December 31, 2005 as we
recorded our ninth consecutive quarter of profitability. For the year, revenues
increased approximately 27%, operating income was up approximately 94%, and
earnings per share were $0.26, up $0.03 per share. Revenue relating to our
InfoWorkSpace product increased approximately 30% in 2005 over 2004. IWS-related
revenue accounted for approximately 96% of total revenues. We continued to see
a decline in revenue related to our legacy videoconferencing product line as
expected in 2005, with total revenue of approximately $495 thousand, down from
approximately $633 thousand in 2004. In addition, we continued to control costs
as operating expenses as a percentage of revenue dropped to approximately 39%
for the year ending December 31, 2005, as compared to approximately 48%
for the year ended December 31, 2004.  

  Our current business focus is to continue to enhance
our various collaborative product and service offerings, develop and deploy new
products and services, and to expand our sales, service, engineering, and
marketing organizations. This focus is subject to change as the driving
influence in our future direction will be based on the needs of our customer
base. The market for multi-media collaboration products is highly competitive
and we expect both, competition and the overall market competitive products to
significantly increase in the future. In addition, some of our current and
potential competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial,
technical, sales, and marketing resources. If we are unable to retain our
existing customers in the US government, or we are unable to convince a
sufficient number of new companies or customers with an interest in
collaborative technologies to adopt the IWS collaborative   

15     

software product over
alternative technologies marketed by our competitors, our financial results
would suffer. We believe that the key differentiating factors in the market
will continue to be breadth of capabilities, demonstrated interoperability,
price, performance, network management capabilities, reliability, scalability,
customer support and security.  

  Ezenia plans to continue
to enhance existing products and offerings based on our customer requirements,
as well as to work on developing new products and services which will expand
the opportunities available to us in the overall collaboration market. In March 2006,
the Company released its newest version of InfoWorkSpace, version 3.0, along
with announcing a number of new service offerings. InfoWorkSpace 3.0 adds and
or enhances features which specifically address the key factors above:  interoperability, scalability, multi-level
security, enhancements to the user experience, network management, and
reliability. In addition, we currently offer the following services for our
products:  IWS User Training, IWS
Administrator Training, IWS Installation Training, Installation service, and
Daily Consulting service. Extended maintenance service plans are also available.
Beginning in April 2006, Ezenia will begin offering On-Line training for
the IWS Administrator and IWS User courses. This training should save customers
travel time, lost productivity, and unnecessary collateral expenses. In
addition to expanding our training course offerings, we will provide an
unprecedented level of support to our customer base with our  Exercise and
Deployment Services , which are targeted to our government customers and allow
military or other units or teams preparing for deployment or exercise maneuvers
to eliminate the need to tear down, transport, and bring up their own systems,
prior to and following these activities.  

     Critical Accounting Policies   

  The discussion and analysis of our financial condition
and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements,
which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates,
including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, income
taxes and warranty obligations. We base our estimates on historical experience
and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the
circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about
the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from
other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different
assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting
policies and the related judgments and estimates affect the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements.  

     Revenue Recognition   

  Product revenue consists of sales of IWS software
licenses and maintenance agreements, IWS product related training,
installation, and consulting, and video products. Revenue from sales of IWS
software license and maintenance agreements is recognized ratably over the
license agreement  periods, which are
generally one year, pursuant to the guidance provided by Statement of Position
97-2,  Software Revenue Recognition  (SOP 97-2), issued by the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Revenue from IWS
training, installation, and consulting services are recognized as the services
are performed provided there is vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of
fair value which is the price charged when the services are sold separately. Revenue
from video product sales is recognized upon shipment to the customer and the
fulfillment of all contractual terms and conditions, pursuant to the guidance
provided by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104,  Revenue Recognition in
Financial Statements  (SAB 104), issued by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  

  Product development revenue relates to contracts
involving customization of the IWS product according to customer
specifications. Revenue associated with contracts for product development
revenue   

16     

with milestone-based
deliverables requiring a customers  acceptance is recognized upon the customer s
acceptance in accordance with terms of the contract, in conformity with the
guidance provided by SOP 81-1,  Accounting For Performance of
Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts  Issued by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants. The cost recognition associated with
these deliverables or milestones is deferred until the terms of acceptance are
satisfied and revenue is recognized.  

  Service revenue represents sales of service contracts
related to the maintenance of video products. Maintenance revenue is deferred
and recognized ratably over the term of the applicable agreement.  

  Products and software
licenses are sold without any contractual right of return by the customer. Deferred
revenue represents amounts received from customers under subscription software
licenses, maintenance agreements, or for product sales in advance of revenue
recognition. Judgment is required in evaluating the creditworthiness of our
customers. In all instances, revenue is not recognized until we have
determined, at the outset of the arrangement that collectibility is reasonably
assured. Amounts billed to customers related to shipping and handling charges
are recorded upon shipment and the related costs are included in cost of goods
sold.  

     Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   

  Our policy is to maintain allowances for estimated
losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments.
Credit limits are established through a process of reviewing the financial
history and stability of each customer. Where appropriate, we obtain credit
rating reports and financial statements of the customer when determining or
modifying their credit limits. We regularly evaluate the collectibility of our
trade receivable balances based on a combination of factors. When a customer s
account balance becomes past due, we initiate dialogue with the customer to
determine the cause. If it is determined that the customer will be unable to
meet its financial obligation to us, such as in the case of a bankruptcy
filing, deterioration in the customer s operating results or financial
position, or other material events impacting the customer s business, we record
a specific allowance to reduce the related receivable to the amount we expect
to recover given all information presently available.  

  At December 31, 2005,
our accounts receivable balance of approximately $4.5 million is reported net
of allowances of approximately $339 thousand. We believe our reported allowances
are adequate. If the financial conditions of our customers were to deteriorate,
however, resulting in their inability to make payments, we may need to record
additional allowances, which would result in additional expenses being recorded
for the period in which such determination was made.  

     Inventory Reserves   

  Historically, as a designer, developer and
manufacturer of videoconferencing hardware solutions, we were exposed to a
number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our
inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. Our
policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest
that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based
upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market
conditions. When recorded, our reserves are intended to reduce the carrying
value of our inventory to its net realizable value.  

  Ezenia provided for an excess and obsolescence reserve
for 100% of its inventory due to the continued decline in demand relating to
the legacy videoconferencing product line. During the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2005 Ezenia was able to realize sales of its legacy
videoconferencing hardware products. The cost of these product sales was offset
by adjustments to reduce the related inventory reserves. At December 31,
2005 and 2004, our net inventory reserves are approximately $4.5 million.  

17     

Income Taxes   

  The calculation of tax assets and liabilities involves
significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the
application of complex tax laws. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
determined at the end of each year based on the future tax consequences that
can be attributed to net operating loss and credit carryovers as well as the
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases. The deferred tax assets are
reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax
benefits will not be realized. The realization of deferred tax assets is
dependant upon the generation of future taxable income. In determining the
valuation allowance, Ezenia considers past performance, expected future taxable
income, and qualitative factors which Ezenia considers to be appropriate to be
considered in estimating future taxable income. Ezenia s forecast of expected
future taxable income is for future periods that can be reasonably estimated. Changes
in results that differ materially from our current expectations may cause us to
change our judgment on future taxable income. These changes, if any, may
require us to adjust our existing tax valuation allowance higher or lower than
the amount we have previously recorded.  

  In the fourth quarter of
2005, as a result of our assessment of future taxable income, we released
approximately $138 thousand of valuation allowance against deferred tax assets
resulting in a net tax benefit of approximately $91 thousand. Please see Part
II, Note 6, regarding disclosure with respect to a restatement of 2004 and 2003
components of deferred tax items.  

     Product Warranties   

  Our products are sold with warranty provisions that
require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of our products
over a period of 90 days, at no cost to our customers. Our policy is to
establish warranty reserves at the time of sale when our estimate of the costs
that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements becomes material.
As of December 31, 2005, we believed that our future cost of materials,
labor and overhead for the servicing of our products sold through that date were
not material and no reserve was warranted. If actual product failures or
material or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, our warranty
liability would need to be revised accordingly.  

     Results
of operations years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003   

     Revenue   

  Revenue increased to approximately $13.2 million in
2005 from approximately $10.4 million in 2004. The increase in revenue was
principally related to a 30% increase in sales related to our IWS product line.
The increase in sales of IWS can be attributed to an increasing rate of product
acceptance within the developing collaborative software market as well as
greater spending within our customer base. Product revenue related to IWS
increased approximately $3.2 million or 39%, while product development revenue
declined approximately $276 thousand. Product development revenue is revenue
related to product customization work performed for customers seeking
enhancements to our current product.  The
decline in product development revenue was primarily driven by the
milestone-based deliverable schedule of the underlying contracts. Our legacy
videoconferencing products and related service revenues continued to decline to
approximately $495 thousand (4% of total revenues) in 2005 from approximately $633
thousand (6% of total revenues) in 2004. We expect to see a continued decline
in videoconferencing-related products and services revenue.  

18  

Revenue increased to
approximately $10.4 million in 2004 from approximately $8.2 million in 2003.
The increase in revenue was principally related to a 64% increase in sales
related to our IWS product line. Significant gains were made in the product
development area as revenue grew from approximately $73 thousand in 2003
to approximately $1.5 million in 2004. Revenue from videoconferencing products
and related services declined to approximately $633 thousand (6% of total
revenues) in 2004 from approximately $2.3 million (28% of total revenues) in
2003.  

     Gross profit   

   Cost of revenues includes material
costs, costs of third-party software licenses, assembly labor and overhead,
customer support costs, and engineering and development costs associated with
product development revenue. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues increased
in 2005, to 66.0%, from 65.5% in 2004 and 54.6% in 2003. The increase in gross
profit is primarily attributed to reduced IWS licensing costs offset by a
decline in margin related to product development work recognized from 73.3% in
2004 to 55.6% in 2005. Gross margin related to product development revenue was
51.0% in 2003. Gross profit in 2003 was significantly impacted by our legacy
videoconferencing hardware sales of $1.9 million during the year, which had no
net reported cost basis due to the write down of inventory in the previous year.
Adjusting for this impact, reported gross profit would have been 41.5% in 2003.   

     Research and development   

  Research and development
expenses include payroll, employee benefits, other headcount related costs, and
miscellaneous costs associated with product development. Research and
development expenses increased to approximately $1.2 million in the year ended December 31,
2005, from approximately $1.1 million in 2004, but decreased from
approximately $1.9 million in 2003. The increase in spending in 2005 as
compared with 2004 is primarily due to an increase in personnel related costs
offset by a decrease in consultant costs as we made a concerted effort to
replace outsourced engineering personnel with permanent employees. The decrease
in spending in 2004 as compared with 2003 was primarily due to cost saving
initiatives undertaken by Ezenia in 2003 to better align its cost structure
with its revenues.  

     Sales and marketing   

  Sales and marketing
expenses include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount related costs
associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, tradeshows,
seminars, and other marketing-related programs. Sales and marketing expenses
increased to approximately $1.5 million in the year ended December 31,
2005, from approximately $1.4 million in 2004, and from approximately $1.1
million in 2003. The increase is primarily related to higher personnel related
costs and trade show costs, offset by lower commission and consultant costs. The
increased spending in 2004 as compared with 2003 was primarily related to
higher salary, commission and travel costs associated with an increase in IWS
personnel, as well as higher consulting and advertising costs.  

     General and administrative   

  General and administrative
costs include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount-related costs
associated with the finance, human resources, management information systems,
and other administrative headcount, and legal and investor relations costs, and
other administrative fees. General and administrative expenses decreased to
approximately $1.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2005, from
approximately $1.9 million in 2004.  The
decreased spending in 2005 as compared with 2004 was primarily due to decreases
seen in legal, professional fees, and insurance costs partially offset by
increases in compensation related costs, consultant costs related to Sarbanes
Oxley compliance work, and bad debt recoveries. General and administrative
expenses increased approximately $68 thousand from the year ended December 31,
2004 as compared with the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase was   

19     

primarily
due to an increase in legal and compensation related costs partially offset by
decreases in consultant costs and bad debt recoveries.  

     Occupancy
and other facilities-related expenses   

  Occupancy and other
facilities-related expenses increased to approximately $621 thousand in the
year ended December 31, 2005, from approximately $579 thousand in 2004,
and decreased from approximately $675 thousand in 2003. These costs include
rent expense and other operating costs associated with our former headquarters
facility in Burlington, Massachusetts, our current headquarters in Nashua, New
Hampshire, and two other sales and development offices in the United States, in
Colorado and in Virginia. In February 2005, we moved its sales office in
Alexandria, VA to Sterling, VA and in June 2005, the Company moved its
headquarters facility to Nashua, New Hampshire from Burlington, Massachusetts.
Both moves were to more cost efficient space. In December 2003, we also
moved our Colorado development office to more cost efficient space. The
increased spending in 2005 is primarily attributed to one time charges of $170
thousand for a lease termination fee associated with our decision not to renew
the lease on our headquarters facility in Burlington, Massachusetts, and $12
thousand related to the loss on the sublease of our Alexandria, VA office for
the remaining 14 months, offset by reduced rental costs. The decreased spending
in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily related to the Colorado office move
in December 2003, and to additional cost savings initiatives we initially
undertook during 2003 to better align its cost structure with its revenues.  

     Interest income, net   

  Interest income, net,
consists of interest on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest
income increased to approximately $191 thousand in 2005 from approximately $122
thousand in 2004 and approximately $6 thousand in 2003. The increase in 2005
was primarily related to an increase in the amount of cash available for
investment during the year as compared to 2004. The increase in 2004 as
compared to 2003 was due primarily to approximately $66 thousand of interest
received in connection with our settlement reached in April 2004 with the
ITC, approximately $30 thousand of interest received as a result of an income
tax refund of approximately $608 thousand received in December 2004, and
an increase in the amount of cash available for investment during the year.  

     Settlement fees and other income   

  The settlement fees
reported for the year ended December 31, 2004 are one-time legal and
professional fees related to our settlement reached in April 2004 with the
ITC concerning tax matters associated with its patent infringement suit against
Accord, which was settled in June 2000. Other income consists primarily of
sales of previously written off assets and other miscellaneous non-operating
income.  

     Income tax benefit   

  The amount reported as
current income tax benefit in 2005 is comprised of current income tax expense
of approximately $47 thousand, in both estimated federal alternative minimum
tax expense and state income tax expense. In addition, the amount includes a
deferred tax benefit of approximately $138 thousand associated with the
release of a portion of our valuation allowance based on our conclusion that a
portion of the deferred tax asset would be realized. The income tax benefit
reported in the year ended December 31, 2004 of approximately $1.4 million
related to our settlement with the ITC resulting in the receipt in April 2004
of $975 thousand, net of approximately $156 thousand of withholding tax on the
gross settlement amount. The income tax benefit in 2004 also included an
approximately $608 thousand refund of prior year taxes relating to the carry
back of the net operating losses incurred in 2001 to prior years. The income
tax benefit reported in the year ended December 31, 2003 of approximately
$267   

20     

thousand
related to a change in the estimate for potential liabilities related to
federal and state income taxes paid in prior years.  

     Liquidity and Capital Resources   

   At December 31, 2005, we
had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $9.4 million.  We
generated  profits from operations of
approximately $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and a net
profit for the year of approximately $3.8 million, as compared with an
operating profit in the year ended December 31, 2004 of $1.8 million, and
a net profit of approximately $3.2 million in 2004.  

  We generated cash from operations of $3.8 million in
fiscal 2005 compared to $3.2 million in 2004 and cash used in operations of $96
thousand in 2003. Increases in cash provided by operating activities in 2005
were primarily the result of increases in net income and increases in accounts
payable, accrued expenses, and deferred revenue offset by increased uses of
working capital attributable to an increase in accounts receivable. Increases
in cash provided by operating activities in 2004 were primarily the result of
increases in net income and increases in deferred revenue offset by increased
uses for working capital attributable to increases in accounts receivable and
prepaid software licenses. In 2003, cash used by operating activities was
primarily the result of an increase in deferred revenue offset by a net loss
and uses for working capital attributable to increases in accounts receivable
and prepaid software licenses.  

  The Company invested approximately $206 thousand in
property and equipment in fiscal 2005 compared to $93 thousand in fiscal 2004
and no outlay of cash relative to 2003 investing activities. The Company has
generated cash from financing activities of $291 thousand, $102 thousand, and
$9 thousand in 2005, 2004, and 2003 respectively, primarily from proceeds of
sales of the Company s common stock pursuant to the Company s various stock
plans.  

  Our contractual obligations relate primarily to its
facilities leases and a contractual purchase commitment. We lease our primary
facility in Nashua, New Hampshire, under an operating lease, which expires in June 2010.
We also have three other leases for office space in the United States, located
in Colorado Springs, Colorado, Sterling, Virginia, and Alexandria, Virginia for
sales, development and technical support operations. We have entered into a sub
lease agreement for our Alexandria, Virginia office. These leases expire at
various dates through November 2011. Future minimum lease obligations at December 31,
2005 under all of these non-cancelable operating leases, including the effects
of the Alexandria, Virginia sublease, are approximately $153 thousand in 2006,
$178 thousand in 2007, $179 thousand in 2008, $180 thousand in 2009, $126
thousand in 2010, and $98 thousand in 2011.  

  In February 2005 we entered into a new agreement
with Microsoft to extend an existing software distribution license agreement. Under
the agreement, we are required to purchase a minimum of approximately $2.8
million of product during the fiscal year 2006.  

  We include standard intellectual property
indemnification provisions in our licensing agreements in the ordinary course
of business. Pursuant to our product license agreements, we will indemnify,
hold harmless, and agree to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered
or incurred by the indemnified party, generally business partners or customers,
in connection with certain patent, copyright or other intellectual property
infringement claims by third parties with respect to our products. Other
agreements with our customers provide indemnification for claims relating to
property damage or personal injury resulting from the performance of services
by Ezenia or its subcontractors. Historically, our costs to defend lawsuits or
settle claims relating to such indemnity agreements have been insignificant.
Accordingly, the estimated fair value of these indemnification provisions is
immaterial.  

  In August 2002, Ezenia
entered into an agreement with Tandberg Telecom AS to sell all patents and
pending applications related to its videoconferencing products, which was
completed in October 2002. In exchange for an up-front license fee of
$1.25 million, a loan for an additional $1.25 million which was   

21     

forgiven
at the closing, and an additional $2.4 million also received at the closing,
Ezenia granted Tandberg a fully paid, non-exclusive, non-transferable license
under the patents and pending applications relating to Ezenia s
videoconferencing technology (the video patent portfolio). Additionally, Ezenia
retained a fully paid, non-exclusive, non-transferable license for Ezenia s use
in connection with its videoconferencing and enterprise collaboration products.  

  In May 2003, after failing
to comply with certain continued listing standards for the NASDAQ SmallCap
Market, including maintaining a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share,
or the requirement for Ezenia to have a minimum $2.5 million in stockholders
equity, Ezenia received a delisting notification from NASDAQ. After exercising
its right for an appeal of this determination to a NASDAQ Listing
Qualifications Panel, the Panel determined to delist Ezenia s securities from
The NASDAQ Stock Market in August 2003. Since then, Ezenia s common stock
has been quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The market value and liquidity of
Ezenia s common stock, as well as Ezenia s ability to raise additional capital,
has been and may continue to be materially adversely affected by this delisting
decision.  

  Operating costs were in line
with our expectations for the year ended December 31, 2005. If order
bookings are less than expected in 2006, we may take steps to reduce spending
on such discretionary items as capital expenditures and marketing, however, we
are committed to making the necessary investments in building and expanding our
infrastructure.  

  Ezenia s success in achieving
its goal of showing consistent quarterly top line and bottom line growth is
largely dependent on whether it can continue to grow its future order bookings
and related revenue targets. Order bookings, which are purchase orders placed
by customers, are properly not recorded as revenue or recognized as revenue
until all requirements of that order are satisfied, although the cash flow received
from these orders may more closely follow the receipt date of the order. Accordingly,
largely as a result of its successive quarters of profitability, management
believes that its existing cash resources will be sufficient to fund its
anticipated working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next
twelve months. We anticipate that we will continue to generate positive cash
flow from operations for 2006 and that existing cash reserves will therefore be
sufficient to meet our working and capital requirement needs during this
period.  

  The
following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations:  

Recent Accounting pronouncements   

  In December 2004, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123R,      Share- Based Payment      (SFAS 123R). This Statement is a revision of SFAS 123 and
supersedes APB 25 and its related implementation guidance. SFAS 123R
establishes standards for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity
instruments for goods or services. This standard requires a public entity to measure
the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity
instruments based on the grant date fair value of the award. This eliminates
the exception to account for such awards using the intrinsic method previously
allowable under APB Opinion No.25. In March 2005, the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) released Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 107,
Share-Based Payment, which expresses views of the SEC Staff about the
application of SFAS No. 123R. SFAS No.123R was to be effective for interim
or annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2005, but in April 2005
the SEC issued a rule that SFAS No. 123R will be effective only for
annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2005. 

22     

Ezenia adopted SFAS 123R
on January 1, 2006 under the modified-prospective transition method and
the adoption will materially increases stock compensation expense and decreases
net income. Accordingly, in fiscal 2006, total stock-based compensation expense
from stock options using the fair value provisions of SFAS 123R, is estimated
to be approximately $800 thousand. In order to develop the fiscal 2006
stock-based compensation expense estimate, we utilized assumptions on items
such as projected option grants and expected life and volatility, which were
similar to the amounts in fiscal 2005. In addition, SFAS 123R requires that the
excess tax benefits related to stock compensation be reported as a cash inflow
from financing activities rather than as a reduction of taxes paid in cash from
operations.  

     ITEM 7A.            QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

  To date, Ezenia has not
utilized derivative financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments.
Ezenia invests cash in highly liquid investments, consisting of highly rated
U.S. and state government securities, commercial paper and short-term money
market funds. These investments are subject to minimal credit and market risk
and Ezenia has no debt other than its contractual lease obligations. A 10%
change in interest rates would not have a material impact on Ezenia s financial
position, operating results or cash flows. We have closed our foreign offices,
and sales to foreign customers from the United States are in U.S. dollars. Therefore,
Ezenia has no significant foreign currency risk.  

23     

ITEM
8.                    FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

     INDEX   

24  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm   

  The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Ezenia! Inc.  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Ezenia! Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004
and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity,
and cash flows for the three year period ended December 31, 2005. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index at
Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of
the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance with the auditing
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to
perform, an audit of its internal controls over financial reporting. Our audits
included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis
for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no
such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Ezenia! Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31, 2005
and 2004 and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.  

  See Note 6 for a
discussion regarding restatement of previously filed disclosures regarding the
components of the Company s deferred tax assets. The restatement has no effect
on the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows of
the Company.  

/s/ BROWN  
  BROWN LLP  

Boston, Massachusetts  

  March 28, 2006  

25  

Consolidated
Balance Sheets   

See accompanying notes  .     26  

Consolidated
Statements of Operations   

See accompanying notes  .     27  

Consolidated
Statements of Stockholders  Equity (Deficit) and Comprehensive Income (Loss)   

See accompanying notes.  

28   

Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows   

See accompanying notes.     29  

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   

     1.   Nature
of Business and Basis of Presentation   

  Ezenia! Inc. ( Ezenia  or the  Company ) operates in
one business segment, which is the design, development, manufacturing,
marketing and sale of conferencing and real-time collaboration solutions for
corporate and governmental networks and eBusiness.  Founded in 1991, Ezenia! develops and markets
products that enable organizations to provide high-quality group communication
and collaboration capabilities to commercial, governmental, consumer and
institutional users. Ezenia s products allow individuals and groups, regardless
of proximity constraints, to interact and share information in a natural,
spontaneous way voice-to-voice, face-to-face, mouse-to-mouse,
keyboard-to-keyboard, flexibly, securely and in real-time.  Using our products, individuals can interact
through a natural meeting experience, allowing groups to work together
effectively and disseminate vital information quickly in a secure environment.  

  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts
of Ezenia and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company
transactions and balances have been eliminated. All assets and liabilities of
Ezenia s foreign subsidiaries are translated at the rate of exchange at the end
of the year, while sales and expense are translated at the average rate in
effect during the year. The net effect of these translation adjustments has
been immaterial.  

  Certain amounts in 2003
have been reclassified to permit comparison with 2005 and 2004 classifications.  

   2.   Management s
Plans   

   Ezenia s
success in achieving its goal of showing consistent quarterly top line and
bottom line growth is largely dependent on whether it can continue to grow its
future order bookings, and related revenue targets. P rior to 2004, Ezenia incurred substantial
recurring operating losses and negative cash flow from operations and incurred
an accumulated deficit of approximately $60.3 million at December 31, 2003.
During 2005 and 2004, Ezenia achieved income from operations of $3.5 million and
$1.8 million, net income of $3.8 million and $3.2 million, and generated cash
from operations of $3.8 million and $3.2 million respectively, and has
$9.4 million of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2005. Accordingly, largely as a result of its
successive quarters of profitability, management believes, although there can
be no assurances, that its existing cash resources will be sufficient to fund
its anticipated working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the
next twelve months. We anticipate that we will continue to generate positive
cash flow from operations for 2006 and that existing cash reserves will
therefore be sufficient to meet our working and capital requirement needs
during this period.  

   3.   Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies   

   Use of Estimates   

  The preparation of the
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, if any, at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.  

30     

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

3.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

   Revenue recognition   

  Product revenue consists of sales of InfoWorkSpace ( IWS )
software licenses and maintenance agreements, IWS product related training,
installation, and consulting, and video products. Revenue from sales of IWS
software licenses and maintenance agreements is recognized ratably over the
subscription software license contract periods, which are generally one year,
pursuant to the guidance provided by Statement of Position ( SOP ) 97-2,    Software Revenue Recognition    (SOP 97-2), issued by
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Revenue from
IWS training, installation, and consulting services are recognized as the
services are performed provided there is vendor specific objective evidence
(VSOE) of fair value which is the price charged when the services are sold
separately. Revenue from video product sales is recognized upon shipment to the
customer and the fulfillment of all contractual terms and conditions, pursuant
to the guidance provided by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104,    Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements    (SAB 104),
issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

  Product development revenue relates to contracts
involving customization of the IWS product according to customer
specifications. Revenue associated with contracts for product development
revenue with milestone-based deliverables requiring a customers  acceptance is
recognized upon the customer s acceptance in accordance with terms of the
contract, in conformity with the guidance provided by SOP 81-1,    Accounting For Performance of Construction Type and Certain Production
Type Contracts    issued by the AICPA. The associated cost recognition
with these deliverables or milestones is deferred until the terms of acceptance
are satisfied and revenue is recognized.  

  Service revenue represents sales of service contracts
related to the maintenance of video products. Maintenance revenue is deferred
and recognized ratably over the term of the applicable agreement.  

  Products and software licenses are sold without any
contractual right of return by the customer. Deferred revenue represents
amounts received from customers under subscription software licenses,
maintenance agreements, or for product sales in advance of revenue recognition.
Judgments are required in evaluating the creditworthiness of our customers. In
all instances, revenue is not recognized until we have determined, at the
outset of the arrangement that collectibility is reasonably assured. Amounts
billed to customers related to shipping and handling charges are recorded as
revenue upon shipment and the related costs are included in cost of goods sold.  

   Product Warranties   

  Our products are sold with warranty provisions that
require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of our products
over a period of 90 days, at no cost to our customers. Our policy is to
establish warranty reserves at the time of sale when our estimates of the costs
that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements become material.
At December 31, 2005, we believe that our future cost of materials, labor
and overhead for the servicing of our products sold through that date are not
material and no reserve is warranted. If actual product failures or material or
service delivery costs differ from our estimates, our warranty liability would
need to be revised accordingly.  

   Third Party
Technology   

  Ezenia s IWS product incorporates third party
technology in the form of software licenses, which we purchase from other
software vendors. Software licenses purchased from vendors are reported as
prepaid licenses and amortized to cost of revenue over the subscription period,
which is generally one year.  

31     

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

3.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

   Advertising   

  Advertising
costs are included in sales and marketing expense. Ezenia uses its website as
its main form of advertising along with participating in various industry
related trade shows and currently does not incur material advertising costs.
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense approximated
$49 thousand in fiscal 2005 and $39 thousand in fiscal 2004. Ezenia did not
incur advertising expense for fiscal 2003.  

   Cash equivalents   

  Ezenia considers all
liquid investments with a maturity of 90 days or less at the date of purchase
to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents and marketable securities consist of
highly rated U.S. and state government securities, commercial paper and
short-term money market funds.  

   Financial
instruments and concentrations of credit risk   

  Ezenia s financial instruments consist primarily of
cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, accounts payable and accrued
expenses. The carrying value of these financial instruments approximates fair
value due to their short term to maturity. Financial instruments, which
potentially subject Ezenia to concentrations of credit risk, are cash
equivalents and accounts receivable.  

  Major financial institutions maintain all the Company s
cash equivalents. Concentration of credit risk with respect to accounts
receivable is limited to certain customers to whom Ezenia makes substantial
sales. To reduce risk, we routinely assess the financial strength of our customers.
Ezenia maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts based on accounts past due
according to contractual terms and historical collection experience. Actual
losses when incurred are charged to the allowance. Write-offs related to
accounts receivable have been within management s expectations.  

  Revenue from one customer
accounted for approximately 20% of total revenues in 2005, 33% of total
revenues in 2004, and 38% of total revenues in 2003. Accounts receivable from
this customer amounted to approximately $1.8 million, $1.8 million and $1.9
million at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Revenue from
international markets was approximately $362 thousand, $391 thousand and $1.1
million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

   Equipment and
improvements   

  Equipment
and improvements are stated at cost and depreciated using the straight-line
method over the following estimated useful lives:  

Computer software and
  equipment  

3 years  

Office equipment  

5 years  

Furniture and fixtures  

5 years  

Leasehold improvements  

Shorter of lease term or estimated useful life  

Repairs and maintenance
costs are expensed as incurred.  

32     

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

3.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

   Research and
development costs   

  Research and development
costs are charged to expense as incurred. Internally developed software costs
are expensed as incurred until it is determined that the technology needed to
achieve performance requirements exists. To date, internally developed software
has been available for release concurrent with the establishment of
technological feasibility and, accordingly, costs eligible for capitalization
have been insignificant and expensed as incurred.  

   Income taxes   

  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined at
the end of each year based on the future tax consequences that can be
attributed to net operating loss and credit carryovers as well as the
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases. The deferred tax assets are
reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax
benefits will not be realized. The realization of deferred tax assets is
dependant upon the generation of future taxable income. In determining the
valuation allowance, we consider past performance, expected future taxable
income, and qualitative factors which we consider to be appropriate to be
considered in estimating future taxable income. The Company s forecast of
expected future taxable income is for future periods that can be reasonably
estimated. Results that differ materially from our current expectations may cause
us to change our judgment on future taxable income. These changes, if any, may
require us to adjust our existing tax valuation allowance higher or lower than
the amount we have recorded.  

  In the fourth quarter of 2005, as a result of our
assessment of future taxable income, we released approximately $138 thousand of
valuation allowance against deferred tax assets resulting in a net tax benefit
of approximately $91 thousand. The calculation of tax liabilities involves
significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the
application of complex tax laws.  

   Net income (loss)
per share   

  The Company reports net income (loss) per share in
accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 128,
   Earnings per Share  .  Diluted earnings
per share include the effect of dilutive stock options.  

  Shares
used in computing basic and diluted net income (loss) per share are as follows:  

Accounting for
stock-based compensation   

  Ezenia has elected to account for its stock-based
compensation plans pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
   Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,   
(APB 25) and related interpretations rather than the alternative fair value
accounting provided under SFAS No. 123,    Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation   ( SFAS No. 123 ).  Ezenia has
recognized no compensation expense related to its stock option plans and its
stock purchase plan.  

33     

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

3.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

  Pro-forma information regarding net income (loss) and
income (loss) per share, as if we had used the fair value method pursuant to SFAS
No. 123 to account for stock options issued under our various stock option
plans, and shares purchased under the 1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as
amended,  is presented below. The fair
value of stock activity under these plans was estimated at the date of grant
using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions as of
the date of grant: risk-free interest rates equal to the then available rate
for zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the
expected life of the options; no dividend yields; an average volatility factor
of the expected market price of Ezenia s common stock over the expected life of
the option of 1.50 in 2005, 1.24 in 2004 and 1.82 in 2003; and a
weighted-average expected life of the option of 
6.8 years in 2005, 6.4 years in 2004 and 7.4 years in 2003.  

  For
purposes of pro-forma disclosures, the estimated weighted average grant date
fair value of options granted during the year of $1.44, $0.53 and $0.19 in
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, is amortized to expense over the related
vesting period. Pro-forma information is as follows:  

Recent Accounting
pronouncements   

  In December 2004, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123R,    Share     -    Based Payment    (SFAS
123R). This Statement is a revision of SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25 and its related
implementation guidance. SFAS 123R establishes standards for transactions in
which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. This
standard requires a public entity to measure the cost of employee services
received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant date
fair value of the award. This eliminates the exception to account for such
awards using the intrinsic method previously allowable under APB Opinion No. 25.
In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) released Staff
Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 107, Share-Based Payment, which expresses views of
the SEC Staff about the application of SFAS No. 123R. SFAS No. 123R was to
be effective for interim or annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15,
2005, but in April 2005 the SEC issued a rule that SFAS No. 123R
will be effective only for annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15,
2005. 

  The Company is required to
adopt SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006 and under the modified-prospective
transition method, the adoption is expected to materially increase stock
compensation expense and decrease earnings. Accordingly, in fiscal 2006, total
stock-based compensation expense from stock options using the fair value provisions
of SFAS 123R, is estimated to be approximately $800   

34     

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

3.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 

  thousand.
In order to develop the fiscal 2006 stock-based compensation expense estimate,
we utilized assumptions on items such as projected option grants and expected
life and volatility, which were similar to the amounts in fiscal 2005. In
addition, SFAS 123R requires that the excess tax benefits related to stock
compensation be reported as a cash inflow from financing activities rather than
as a reduction of taxes paid in cash from operations.  

   4.   Inventories   

  Inventories consist primarily of finished goods
relating to legacy video conferencing hardware equipment Historically, as a
designer, developer and manufacturer of videoconferencing hardware solutions,
Ezenia was exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could
result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of
anticipated usage. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when
conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated
demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our
products and market conditions. When recorded, our reserves are intended to
reduce the carrying value of our inventory to its net realizable value.  

  Ezenia has previously provided for excess and
obsolescence reserve for 100% of its inventory due to the continued decline in
demand relating to the legacy videoconferencing product line. During each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 Ezenia was able to
realize sales of its legacy videoconferencing hardware products. The cost of
these product sales was offset by adjustments to reduce the related inventory
reserves. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, our net inventory reserves are
approximately $4.5 million.  

   5.   Equipment and
Improvements   

  Property
and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over
the useful lives of the respective assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized
over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the improvements or the
remaining lease term. Ezenia made no purchases of equipment or improvements in
the year ended December 31, 2003. For the years ended December 31,
2005 and December 31, 2004, we had the following activity net of
depreciation:  

35  

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

   5.   Equipment and
Improvements (Continued)   

  Depreciation expense for
the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $44 thousand and $8
thousand, respectively.  

     6.   Income taxes   

  The
provision (benefit) for income taxes is as follows:  

The amount reported as current income tax benefit in
2005 is comprised of current income tax expense of approximately $47 thousand
in estimated federal alternative minimum tax expense and state income tax
expense and, a deferred tax benefit of approximately $138 thousand associated
with the release of a portion of the Company s valuation allowance. The amount
reported as income tax benefit in 2004 is the result of an $819 thousand net
settlement reached with the ITC and a $608 thousand refund received in
connection with the 2002 carry back of net operating losses incurred in 2001.
The amount reported as income tax benefit in 2003 is the result of the reversal
of tax reserves recorded in prior years.  

  A
reconciliation of the expected income tax (benefit) computed using the federal
statutory income tax rate to the Company s effective income tax rate at December 31
for the years ended 2005, 2004, and 2003 is as follows:  

36     

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

6.       Income taxes (Continued) 

  The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Act ) was
signed into law on October 22, 2004. The Act contains numerous amendments
and additions to the U.S. corporate income tax rules. None of these changes,
either individually or in the aggregate, is expected to have a significant
effect on Ezenia s income tax liability. The Company is continuing to evaluate
the Act and does not expect to complete this evaluation until after Congress
and the Treasury Department provide guidance clarifying certain provisions.  

  The
Company s deferred tax assets consist of the following:  

At December 31, 2005, Ezenia had domestic federal
net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $53.1 million available to
reduce future taxable income, which expire at various dates beginning in 2020
through 2025. Ezenia also has federal research and development tax credit
carryforwards of approximately $2.4 million available to reduce future tax
liabilities. Ezenia has state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
$53.2 million as of December 31, 2005 available to reduce state future
taxable income, which expire at various dates beginning in 2005 through 2010.
Ezenia also has state research and development tax credit carryforwards of
approximately $918 thousand as of December 31, 2005.  

  Under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code,
certain substantial changes in the Company s ownership may result in a
limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards and research and
development credit carryforwards which may be utilized annually to offset
future taxable income and taxes payable.  

  As required by SFAS No. 109,
management of the Company has evaluated the positive and negative evidence
bearing upon the realizability of its deferred tax assets, which are comprised
principally of NOL carryforwards, research and experimentation credit
carryforwards, capitalized start up expenditures, purchased intangibles, and
research and development expenditures amortizable over sixty months. Management
has determined at this time that it is more likely than not that the Company
will recognize a portion of the benefits of its federal and state deferred tax
assets. Accordingly, in 2005 a provision for current income tax of
approximately $47 thousand relating primarily to federal alternative minimum
taxes was recorded, which was offset by the release of a valuation allowance of
approximately $138 thousand in the fourth quarter. As a result, a valuation
allowance of approximately $31.9 million has been established at December 31,
2005, resulting in a net deferred tax asset of approximately $138 thousand. The
amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be reduced or
increased in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the
carryforward period change.  

37     

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

6.       Income taxes (Continued) 

   Restatement of 2004
and 2003 deferred tax items:   

  In connection with the Company s review of income tax
returns previously filed in relation to our disclosures relative to certain
temporary differences we have restated certain of the deferred tax asset
amounts and corresponding valuation allowance from our previously filed Form
10-K s for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  While the adjustments individually are
material to our tax disclosures there was no impact to our balance sheet,
statement of operations, stockholders equity or cash flows.  Accordingly, the following represents the
restated amounts as compared to amounts previously disclosed in our prior Form
10-K.  

  The Company s deferred tax
assets are comprised of the following:  

The restatements in 2003 were primarily related to a
$2,851 thousand understatement of state net operating loss carryforwards, an
understatement of cumulative temporary differences related to purchased
intangibles of $259 thousand and of various reserves, accruals and allowances
of $1,713 thousand offset by an overstatement of tax credit carryforwards of
$1,448 thousand.  The 2004 restatements
relate primarily to a $527 thousand understatement of federal net operating
losses offset by a $376 thousand overstatement of tax credit carryforwards.  

  As a result of these
restatements to the aforementioned deferred tax items a restated reconciliation
of the expected income tax (benefit) computed using the federal statutory
income tax rate to the Company s effective income tax rate for the years 2004
and 2003 is as follows:  

38     

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

7.       Other
Income 

  Ezenia had previously
settled a patent infringement suit against Accord in the United States District
Court for the District of Massachusetts. The settlement agreement, provided,
among other things, that Ezenia receive $6.5 million in return for a covenant
not to sue with respect to the patents that were the subject of the litigation.
Ezenia received the payment in 2000, net of foreign tax withholding of $975 housand,
pending a resolution of certain tax matters related to the settlement with the
tax authorities in Israel. In April 2004, Ezenia reached a settlement
agreement with the Israel Tax Commission (ITC), resulting in the receipt by
Ezenia of cash proceeds related to the disputed amount, net of interest earned,
tax withholding, and settlement fees of approximately $179 thousand.  

   8.   Commitments
and Contingencies   

  Ezenia s contractual
obligations relate primarily to its facilities leases and a contractual
purchase commitment. In 2005, Ezenia moved its headquarters facility from
Burlington, Massachusetts to Nashua, New Hampshire and incurred a $170 thousand
lease termination fee. The primary facility in Nashua, New Hampshire is leased under
an operating lease, which expires in June 2010. We also have three other
leases for office space in the United States, located in Colorado Springs,
Colorado, Sterling, Virginia, and Alexandria, Virginia for sales, development
and technical support operations. On February 28, 2005 we entered into a
new five year operating lease to move our Alexandria, Virginia sales and
service office to a new facility in Sterling, Virginia. At the same time, we
entered into a sublease agreement to lease our Alexandria, Virginia facility
for the remaining 14 months of our lease term. As a result of the move, we will
lower our overall facility costs in Virginia. These leases expire at various
dates through November 2011. Rent expense was approximately $199 thousand,
$278 thousand, and $361 thousand in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

  The
following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations:  

Purchase commitments
represent obligations under agreements, which are not unilaterally cancelable
by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts of goods or
services at fixed or minimum prices. If order bookings are less than expected
in 2006, it is possible that we will be unable to meet our minimum purchase
commitment resulting in a possible material adjustment later in the year.  

  Ezenia is subject to a
variety of claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course
of its business.  Currently
we are not a defendant in any claims or suits.  As of December 31, 2004, Ezenia
had reserved approximately $160 thousand for potential liabilities that we
expected to incur as a result of lawsuits filed during the fourth quarter of
2004. During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, we resolved these suits for
approximately $15 thousand and therefore reversed the excess accrual of
approximately $145 thousand, which is included as a credit in general and
administrative expense as a change in estimate. 

39  

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

   9.       Stockholders
Equity 

  The Company has authorized 2,000,000 shares of
undesignated Preferred Stock. Each series of Preferred Stock shall have such
rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights,
dividend rights, conversion rights, redemption privileges and liquidation
preferences as determined by the Board of Directors.  

  In connection with the
Company s prior acquisition of the IWS business unit we issued
400,000 shares of our common stock of which 290,000 of those shares were
subject to a put right by the seller of the IWS business unit. Such common
stock subject to the put right was reported as temporary equity. In July 2003,
in connection with an amendment to a software development agreement, the seller
agreed to estimate its put right and, accordingly, the $2.9 million value
associated with the 290,000 shares of common stock that was no longer subject
to the put option, was credited to stockholders equity.  

   10.       Benefit
Plans 

     Stock option plans   

  The Company s Amended and Restated 1991 Stock
Incentive Plan (the  1991 Plan ) provided for the sale or award of common
stock, or the grant of incentive stock options or nonqualified stock options
for the purchase of common stock, for up to 6,090,541 shares to officers,
employees and consultants. The 1991 Plan terminated on March 31, 2001, and
no further options have been granted under the 1991 Plan subsequent to that
date. At December 31, 2005, there were 655,252 shares of common stock
reserved to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options granted under the
1991 Plan.  

  The 2001 Stock Incentive Plan was approved and adopted
by the Board of Directors on April 11, 2001 (the  2001 Stock Incentive
Plan ). The 2001 Stock Incentive Plan provided for the sale or award of common
stock, or the grant of non-qualified stock options for the purchase of common
stock, for up to 5,000,000 shares to officers, directors, employees and
consultants of the Company. Vesting of options granted under the 2001 Stock
Incentive Plan accelerates upon change of control or acquisition as defined in
the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan. The 2001 Stock Incentive Plan terminated on December 31,
2004 and no further options have been granted under the 2001 Stock Incentive
Plan subsequent to this date.  At December 31,
2005, there were 239,437 shares of common stock reserved to be issued upon
exercise of outstanding options granted under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan.  

  The 2004 Stock Incentive
Plan was approved and adopted by the Board of Directors on December 31,
2004 (the  2004 Stock Incentive Plan ). The 2004 Stock Incentive Plan provides
for the sale or award of common stock or the grant of non-qualified stock
options for the purchase of common stock, for up to 7,500,000 shares to
officers, directors, employees and consultants of the Company. The Board of
Directors administers the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, and the terms of grants
and awards made pursuant to the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan. Vesting of options
granted under the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan accelerates upon change of control
or acquisition as defined in the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan. The 2004 Stock
Incentive Plan will terminate on December 31, 2014. At December 31,
2005, there were 916,950 shares of common stock reserved to be issued upon
exercise of outstanding options granted under the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan.  

     1994
Non-employee director stock option plan   

  In April 1995, the Board of
Directors and shareholders approved the Director Plan, which was amended by the
Board of Directors on June 5, 2002 (the  Director Plan ). The Director
Plan provided that the Board of Directors, at its discretion, was permitted to
grant options to non-employee directors,   

40     

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

10.       Benefit Plans (Continued) 

   subject
to terms and conditions as determined by the Board of Directors.  The
Director Plan terminated on November 9, 2004, and no further options have
been granted under the Director Plan subsequent to that date. At December 31,
2005, there were 34,000 shares of common stock reserved to be issued upon
exercise of outstanding options granted under the Director Plan.  

  A
summary of option activity under the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, 2001 Stock
Incentive Plan, the 1991 Plan and the Director Plan is as follows:  

Related
information for options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31,
2005 under these option plans is as follows:  

Employee stock purchase plan   

  The Company s 1995
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ) as
amended on May 30, 2001 and further amended on January 24, 2005,
provides eligible employees the right to purchase common stock at a price per
share equal to 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the common stock at
the beginning or end of each offering period. Participation in the offering is
limited to 10% of an employee s compensation (not to exceed amounts allowed
under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code), may be terminated at any
time by the employee and automatically ends on termination of employment with
the Company. A total of 900,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for   

41     

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)   

10.       Benefit Plans (Continued) 

  issuance
under the 1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Pursuant to the terms of the 1995
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, no options under the 1995 Employee Stock Purchase
Plan can be issued after January 31, 2005 and, as such, the 1995 Employee
Stock Purchase Plan is now terminated. In fiscal year 2005, 35,394 shares of
common stock were issued at the grant date fair value of $0.85 per share under
the 1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. No shares were issued under the 1995
Employee Stock Purchase Plan during fiscal year 2004, 2003, and 2002.  

     Savings plan   

  The Company sponsors a
savings plan for its employees, which has been qualified under Section 401(k) of
the Internal Revenue Code. Eligible employees are permitted to contribute to the
401(k) plan through payroll deductions within statutory and plan limits. Contributions
from the Company are made at the discretion of the Board of Directors and
approximated $22,000, $18,000, and $30,000 in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.  

     11.       Quarterly
financial information (unaudited) 

12.   Subsequent
events   

  On February 7, 2006, Ezenia entered into an
agreement amending its operating lease for its sales and service facility
located in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Under the agreement, an additional 2,010
square feet of space was added to the premises and the term of the lease was
extended an additional five years.  

  On February 17, 2006,
Ezenia received a favorable ruling on its Motion for Summary Judgment on two
claims brought against Datacraft Mexico, S.A. ( Datacraft ) for breach of
contract. The claims stem from a balance due of approximately $276 thousand for
the delivery of goods to Datacraft in 2002 and 2003. The Company expects, as a
result of this ruling, to have these claims settled in 2006.  

42  

ITEM
9A.            CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

  As required by Rule 13a-15 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of December 31, 2005, the Company s
management, under the supervision and with the participation of the person
currently acting as both the chief executive officer and the chief financial
officer, carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures. Based on this evaluation, the Company s
chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that the
Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable
assurance level to ensure that the information required to be disclosed on the
reports filed or submitted by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 was recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the requisite
time periods, including ensuring that such material information is accumulated
and communicated to the Company s management to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure. There were no changes in the Company s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended
December 31, 2005 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  

  The Company s disclosure controls and procedures are
designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives. Because
of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls
can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud,
if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations
include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that
breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls
can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two
or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any
system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the
likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will
succeed in achieving it stated goals under all potential future conditions.
Over time, control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system,
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.  

     PART III   

     ITEM 10.             DIRECTORS
AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

  Information with respect to Directors and compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act may be found in the
sections captioned,  Proposal No. 1 Election of Directors  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance  appearing in the definitive Proxy Statement to
be delivered to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 24, 2006. Such information is incorporated
herein by reference.  

  The Company has adopted,
ratified and approved a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the  Code ) that
applies to all of the Company s employees, including its executive officer, and
directors. The Company shall also provide to any person without charge, upon
request, a copy of the Code. Any such request must be made in writing to the
Company, c/o Investor Relations, 14 Celina Ave, Suite 17-18, Nashua,
New Hampshire 03063.  

     ITEM 11.             EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION 

  The information required
with respect to this item may be found in the sections captioned  Executive
Compensation and Other Information Concerning Directors and Executive Officers 
appearing in the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to shareholders in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 24,
2006. Such information is incorporated herein by reference.  

43     

ITEM
12.             SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

  The information found in
the section captioned,  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management  appearing in the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to
shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
on May 24, 2006 is incorporated herein by reference.  

     Equity
Compensation Plan Information   

  The following table sets forth information as of December 31,
2005 about the Company s equity compensation plans under which shares of its
common stock are authorized for issuance.  

(1)             Includes
655,252 shares of common stock to be issued upon exercise of outstanding
options under the Amended and Restated 1991 Stock Incentive Plan, 34,000 shares
of common stock to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options under the
1994 Non-Employee Director Option Plan, and 916,950 shares of common stock to
be issued upon exercise of outstanding options under the 2004 Stock Incentive
Plan. 

  (2)             Includes
6,583,050 shares of common stock remaining available for future issuance under
the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan. The Amended and Restated 1991 Stock Incentive
Plan terminated on March 31, 2001, the 1994 Non Employee Director Option
Plan terminated on November 9, 2004, and the 1995 Employee Stock Purchase
Plan terminated on January 31, 2005, and no additional options may be
granted under these plans. 

  (3)             Represents
shares of common stock to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options under
the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan. The 2001 Stock Incentive Plan terminated on December 31,
2004, and no additional options may be granted under this plan. 

  A description of the Stock
Incentive Plans is included in Note 10 to the Company s Consolidated Financial
Statements set forth herein.  

     ITEM
13.             CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

  The information required
with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned,  Certain
Transactions  appearing in the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to
shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
on May 24, 2006. Such information is incorporated herein by reference.  

     ITEM
14.             PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES
AND SERVICES 

  The information required
with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned,  Principal
Accountant Fees and Services  appearing in the definitive Proxy Statement to be
delivered to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on May 24, 2006. Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.  

44  

PART IV   

     ITEM 15.             EXHIBITS,
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K 

   (a)              Documents
Filed as Part of Form 10-K  

   1.                      Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

  The following
consolidated financial statements and supplementary data are included in Part II-Item 8
filed as part of this report:  

             Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

             Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 

             Consolidated
Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 

             Consolidated
Statements of Stockholders  Equity for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 

             Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 

             Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

             Quarterly Financial
Information (unaudited) 

   2.                      Financial
Statement Schedule.  

             Schedule
II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

  Schedules not
listed above have been omitted because they are not applicable, not required or
the information required is shown in the consolidated financial statements or
the notes thereto.  

   3.                      List
of Exhibits.  

45     

Copies of any of
these exhibits are available without charge upon written request to Investor
Relations, Ezenia! Inc., 14 Celina Avenue, Suite 17-18, Nashua, NH
03063.  

  +                   Management
contract for compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an
exhibit to this report pursuant to Item 15(c) of this report. 

  (1)             Incorporated by
reference from the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-1. 

  (2)             Incorporated by
reference from the Company s Form 10-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 1995. 

  (3)             Incorporated by
reference from the Company s Form 10-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 1998. 

  (4)             Incorporated by
reference from the Company s Form 10-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2000. 

  (5)             Incorporated by
reference from the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2001. 

  (6)             Incorporated by
reference from the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-8
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 21, 2001. 

  (7)             Incorporated by
reference from the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2002. 

  (8)             Incorporated by
reference from the Company s Form 10-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2002. 

  (9)             Incorporated by
reference from the Company s Form 10-K/A filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2004. 

  (10)      Incorporated
by reference from the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2005. 

46  

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

EZENIA! INC.  

/s/
  KHOA D. NGUYEN  

Khoa D. Nguyen  

Chairman,
  Chief Executive Officer, President and   

Chief
  Financial Officer   

(Principal
  Financial and Accounting Officer,   

Authorized
  Officer)   

Date: March 31, 2006   

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.  

Signature   

Title   

Date   

/s/ KHOA D.
  NGUYEN  

Chairman, Chief
  Executive Officer,  

March 31,
  2006  

Khoa
  D. Nguyen  

President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal
  Financial and Accounting Officer, Authorized Officer)  

/s/ RONALD L.
  BRELAND  

Director  

March 31,
  2006  

Ronald
  L. Breland  

/ s/ GERALD P. CARMEN  

Director  

March 31,
  2006  

Gerald
  P. Carmen  

/s/ THOMAS G.
  MCINERNEY  

Director  

March 31,
  2006  

Thomas
  G. McInerney  

/  s/ JOHN A. MCMULLEN 

Director  

March 31,
  2006  

John
  A. McMullen  

/  s/ JOHN F. STEWART 

Director  

March 31,
  2006  

John F. Stewart  

47  

EZENIA! INC.   

   SCHEDULE
II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS   

48  

Exhibit Index   

+                   Management
contract for compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an
exhibit to this report pursuant to Item 15(c) of this report. 

  (1)             Incorporated
by reference from the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-1. 

49     

(2)             Incorporated
by reference from the Company s Form 10-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 1995. 

  (3)             Incorporated
by reference from the Company s Form 10-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 1998. 

  (4)             Incorporated
by reference from the Company s Form 10-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2000. 

  (5)             Incorporated
by reference from the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2001. 

  (6)             Incorporated
by reference from the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-8
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 21, 2001. 

  (7)             Incorporated
by reference from the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2002. 

  (8)             Incorporated
by reference from the Company s Form 10-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2002. 

  (9)             Incorporated
by reference from the Company s Form 10-K/A filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2004. 

  (10)      Incorporated
by reference from the Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2005. 

50  

<EX-21.1>
 2
 a06-2248_1ex21d1.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exhibit 21.1   

  The following is a list of the Company s current
subsidiary, which is wholly owned:  

Subsidiary Name 

Organized Under The Laws Of  

Ezenia International, Inc.  

Massachusetts  

The
following are subsidiaries of Ezenia International, Inc. all of which are
wholly-owned:  

Subsidiary Name 

Organized Under The Laws Of  

Ezenia Latin America, Inc.  

Massachusetts  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.2>
 3
 a06-2248_1ex23d2.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

Exhibit 23.2   

   Consent of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

  We consent to the
incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements; (Form S-8
No. 33-96192), (Form S-3 No. 333-28209), (Form S-8
No. 333-85245), (Form S-8 333-44984), (Form S-3
No. 333-66628), (Form S-8 No. 333-75824), and
(Form S-8 No. 333-125415), of our report dated March 28,
2006, which includes an explanatory paragraph for the effects of a restatement
for prior years income tax disclosures, with respect to the consolidated
financial statements and schedule of Ezenia! Inc. appearing in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K of Ezenia! Inc. for the year ended December 31,
2005.  

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 a06-2248_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1   

   CERTIFICATIONS   

  I, Khoa D. Nguyen,
the President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Ezenia!
Inc. (the  Company ), certify that:  

  1.                    I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of the Company; 

  2.                    Based on my
knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report; 

  3.                    Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and for,
the periods presented in this annual report; 

  4.                    As the sole
certifying officer I am responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) of the Company and we have: 

  a.                    Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under my supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
is made known to me by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this annual report is being prepared; 

  b.                   Evaluated the
effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures and presented
in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

  c.                    Disclosed in this
report any change in the Company s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the Company s fourth fiscal quarter that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal
control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                    As the sole
certifying officer I have disclosed, based on my most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the Company s auditors and the
audit committee of Company s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions): 

  a.                    All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the Company s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

  b.                   Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the Company s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
  March 31, 2006   

By:  

/s/ KHOA D.
  NGUYEN  

Khoa D. Nguyen  

Chief
  Executive Officer   

Chief
  Financial Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 5
 a06-2248_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1   

   CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  This certification set forth below is hereby made
solely for the purpose of satisfying the requirements of Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and may not be relied upon or used for any other
purposes.  

  In connection with the Annual Report of Ezenia! Inc.
(the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005,
as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ),
I, Khoa D. Nguyen, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge: (1) the
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and (2) the information contained in
the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
and results of operations of the Company.  

  A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 or other
document authenticating, acknowledging or otherwise adopting the signature that
appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement
required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be
retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.  

Date: March 31, 2006 

By:  

/s/ Khoa D. Nguyen  

Khoa D. Nguyen  

Chief Executive Officer   

Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-32.1>

