<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_803164_0000905729-06-000169_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1019797</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>227000</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>43172</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>455113</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>82</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000905729-06-000169.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331152609
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000905729-06-000169
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000803164
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS [6022]
		IRS NUMBER:				382659066
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MI
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-19202
		FILM NUMBER:		06728490

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		109 E DIVISION
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 186
		CITY:			SPARTA
		STATE:			MI
		ZIP:			49345-0186
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6168877366

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		109 EAST DIVISION
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 186
		CITY:			SPARTA
		STATE:			MI
		ZIP:			49345-0186

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	1ST COMMUNITY BANCORP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 IraJZVTENILR2AjUOMRp9lfs0k46n803NHpzxecmYNhs6S8e8KX/Nn86tBeXDDyH
 +ptuCS3vwiJNNlCPrFOj6g==

 0000905729-06-000169.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 choice10k_033106.htm
 CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES FORM 10-K

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. Form 10-K - 03/31/06 

Securities and Exchange Commission 
Washington, D.C. 20549  

  FORM 10-K  

Commission File Number: 000-19202  

  ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc.  
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) 

Michigan  
(State or Other Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or Organization)  

38-2659066  
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

109 East Division Street, Sparta, Michigan  
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)  

49345 
 (Zip Code)  

(616) 887-7366  
(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) 

 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: 

  Common Stock  
(Title of Class) 

 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes             No    X    

 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes             No    X    

 Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes    X      No           

 Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained in this form, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. (X) 

 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of "accelerated filer and large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 

 Large accelerated filer               Accelerated filer               Non-accelerated filer     X     

 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes           No    X       

 As of June 30, 2005, the aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was $31.3 million. This amount is based on an average bid price of $19.00 per share for the Registrant's stock as of such date. 

 As of February 28, 2006, the Registrant had 1,651,258 shares of common stock outstanding. 

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Part I, Item 1, and Part II, Items 5 through 9 incorporate by reference portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005. 

 Part III, Items 10 through 14 incorporate by reference portions of the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement for the Registrant's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 27, 2006. 

2

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

 This report and the documents incorporated into this report contain forward-looking statements that are based on management's beliefs, assumptions, current expectations, estimates and projections about the financial services industry, the economy, and the Registrant itself. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "is likely," "plans," "predicts," "projects," "may," "could," "estimates," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions ("risk factors") that are difficult to predict with regard to timing, extent, likelihood, and degree of occurrence. Therefore, actual results and outcomes may materially differ from what may be expressed, implied or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. Furthermore, the Registrant undertakes no obligation to update, amend, or clarify forward-looking statements,
 whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 

 Risk factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A of this report, changes in interest rates and interest rate relationships; demand for products and services; the degree of competition by traditional and non-traditional competitors; changes in banking laws and regulations; changes in tax laws; changes in prices, levies, and assessments; the impact of technological advances; governmental and regulatory policy changes; the outcomes of pending and future litigation and contingencies; trends in customer behavior as well as their ability to repay loans; changes in the local and national economies; and local and global uncertainties such as acts of terrorism and military actions. These are representative of the risk factors that could cause a difference between an ultimate actual outcome and a preceding forward-looking statement. 
   PART I   

Item 1.   
 
   Business   

General   
ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. (the "Registrant") is a one-bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The Registrant was incorporated on February 24, 1986, as a Michigan corporation. The Registrant was formed to create a bank holding company for the purpose of acquiring all of the capital stock of ChoiceOne Bank (formerly Sparta State Bank), which became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Registrant on April 6, 1987. The Registrant's only subsidiary and significant asset as of December 31, 2005, was ChoiceOne Bank (the "Bank"). Effective January 1, 1996, the Bank acquired all of the outstanding common stock of ChoiceOne Insurance Agencies, Inc. (formerly Bradford Insurance Centre, Ltd.), an independent insurance agency headquartered in Sparta, Michigan (the "Insurance Agency"). Effective January 1, 2002, the Bank formed ChoiceOne Mortgage Company of Michigan (the "Mortgage Company"). The Bank also owns a 20% interest in a non-banking corporation, West Shore Comp
uter Services, Inc., a data processing firm located in Scottville, Michigan.  

 The Registrant's business is primarily concentrated in a single industry segment - banking. The Bank is a full-service banking institution that offers a variety of deposit, payment, credit and other financial services to all types of customers. These services include time, savings, and demand deposits, safe deposit services, and automated transaction machine services. Loans, both commercial and consumer, are extended primarily on a secured basis to corporations, partnerships and individuals. Commercial lending covers such categories as business, industry, agricultural, construction, inventory and real estate. The Bank's consumer loan department makes direct and indirect loans to consumers and purchasers of residential and real property. The Mortgage Company originates and sells a full line of conventional type mortgage loans for 1-4 family and multi-family residential real estate properties. No material part of the business of the Registrant or the Bank is dependent upon a single customer or very few cust
omers, the loss of which would have a materially adverse effect on the Registrant. 

 The Bank's primary market area consists of portions of Kent, Muskegon, Newaygo and Ottawa counties in Michigan in the communities where the Bank's offices are located and the areas immediately surrounding these communities. Currently the Bank serves these markets through five full-service offices. The Registrant and the Bank have no foreign assets or income. 

3

The principal source of revenue for the Registrant and the Bank is interest and fees on loans. On a consolidated basis, interest and fees on loans accounted for 73%, 71%, and 72% of total revenues in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Interest on securities accounted for 11%, 11%, and 8% of total revenues in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. 

 The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8 contain information concerning the financial position and results of operations of the Registrant. 

   Competition   
The business of banking is highly competitive. The Bank's competition primarily comes from other financial institutions located within Sparta, Michigan, and the Kent County, Michigan area. There are a number of larger commercial banks in the Bank's primary market area. 

 The Bank also competes with a large number of other financial institutions, such as savings and loan associations, insurance companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions and commercial finance and leasing companies for deposits, loans and service business. Money market mutual funds, brokerage houses and nonfinancial institutions provide many of the financial services offered by the Bank. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than the Bank. The principal methods of competition for financial services are price (the rates of interest charged for loans, the rates of interest paid for deposits and the fees charged for services) and the convenience and quality of services rendered to customers. 

   Supervision and Regulation   
Banks and bank holding companies are extensively regulated. The Registrant is subject to supervision and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board"). The Registrant's activities are generally limited to owning or controlling banks and engaging in such other activities as the Federal Reserve Board may determine to be closely related to banking. Prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, and in some cases various other government agencies, is required for the Registrant to acquire control of any additional bank holding companies, banks or other operating subsidiaries. 

 The Bank is chartered under state law and is subject to regulation by the Michigan Office of Financial and Insurance Services. State banking laws place restrictions on various aspects of banking, including permitted activities, loan interest rates, branching, payment of dividends and capital and surplus requirements. The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and is also subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. The Bank's deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") to the extent provided by law. The Bank became a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank system in March 1993. This provides certain advantages to the Bank, including favorable borrowing rates for certain funds. 

 The Registrant is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. There are legal limitations on the extent to which the Bank can lend or otherwise supply funds to the Registrant. In addition, payment of dividends to the Registrant by the Bank is subject to various state and federal regulatory limitations. 

 Under Federal Reserve Board policy, the Registrant is expected to act as a source of financial strength to the Bank and to commit resources to support it. Under federal law, the FDIC also has authority to impose special assessments on insured depository institutions to repay FDIC borrowings from the United States Treasury or other sources and to establish semiannual assessment rates on Bank Insurance Fund ("BIF") member banks to maintain the BIF at the designated reserve ratio required by law. 

 The recapitalization of the Savings Association Insurance Fund ("SAIF") was accomplished through the enactment of The Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996. This legislation authorized the Financing Corporation ("FICO") to impose periodic assessments on depository institutions that are members of the BIF, in addition to institutions that are members of the SAIF. The purpose of these periodic assessments is to spread the cost of the interest payments on the outstanding FICO bonds over a larger number of institutions. Until the change in the law, only SAIF member institutions bore the cost of funding these interest payments. 

4

Banks are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, which have a material impact on their business. These include, among others, minimum capital requirements, state usury laws, state laws relating to fiduciaries, the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Community Reinvestment Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, electronic funds transfer laws, redlining laws, predatory lending laws, antitrust laws, environmental laws, money laundering laws and privacy laws. The instruments of monetary policy of authorities, such as the Federal Reserve Board, may influence the growth and distribution of bank loans, investments and deposits, and may also affect interest rates on loans and deposits. These policies may have a significant effect on the operating results of banks. 

 Bank holding companies may acquire banks and other bank holding companies located in any state in the United States without regard to geographic restrictions or reciprocity requirements imposed by state banking law. Banks may also establish interstate branch networks through acquisitions of and mergers with other banks. The establishment of  de novo  interstate branches or the acquisition of individual branches of a bank in another state (rather than the acquisition of an out-of-state bank in its entirety) is allowed only if specifically authorized by state law. 

 Michigan banking laws do not significantly restrict interstate banking. The Michigan Banking Code permits, in appropriate circumstances and with the approval of the Office of Financial and Insurance Services, (1) acquisition of Michigan banks by FDIC-insured banks, savings banks or savings and loan associations located in other states, (2) sale by a Michigan bank of branches to an FDIC-insured bank, savings bank or savings and loan association located in a state in which a Michigan bank could purchase branches of the purchasing entity, (3) consolidation of Michigan banks and FDIC-insured banks, savings banks or savings and loan associations located in other states having laws permitting such consolidation, (4) establishment of branches in Michigan by FDIC-insured banks located in other states, the District of Columbia or U.S. territories or protectorates having laws permitting a Michigan bank to establish a branch in such jurisdiction, and (5) establishment by foreign banks of branches located in Michigan
. 

   Effects of Compliance With Environmental Regulations   
The nature of the business of the Bank is such that it holds title, on a temporary or permanent basis, to a number of parcels of real property. These include properties owned for branch offices and other business purposes as well as properties taken in or in lieu of foreclosure to satisfy loans in default. Under current state and federal laws, present and past owners of real property may be exposed to liability for the cost of clean up of environmental contamination on or originating from those properties, even if they are wholly innocent of the actions that caused the contamination. These liabilities can be material and can exceed the value of the contaminated property. Management is not presently aware of any instances where compliance with these provisions will have a material effect on the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Registrant or the Bank, or where compliance with these provisions will adversely affect a borrower's ability to comply with the terms of loan contracts. 

Employees   
As of February 28, 2006, the Bank employed 58 full-time equivalent employees ("FTE's"); the Insurance Agency employed 12 FTE's; and the Mortgage Company employed 9 FTE's. The Registrant's only employees as of the same date were its four executive officers (who are also employed by the Bank). The Registrant, Bank, Insurance Agency, and Mortgage Company believe their relations with their employees are good.  

   Statistical Information   
Additional statistical information describing the business of the Registrant appears on the following pages and in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated by reference in Item 7 of this report and in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report. 

 The following statistical information should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto incorporated by reference in this report. 

5

Securities Portfolio   
The book value of securities categorized by type at December 31 was as follows: 

(Dollars in thousands) 

The Registrant did not hold investment securities from any one issuer at December 31, 2005, that were greater than 10% of the Registrant's shareholders' equity, exclusive of U.S. Government and U.S. Government agency securities. 

 Presented below is the fair value of securities as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, a schedule of maturities of securities as of December 31, 2005, and the weighted average yields of securities as of December 31, 2005.  

(Dollars in thousands) 

___________________________ 

(1)  
 
  Equity securities are preferred and common stocks with no stated maturity.  

(2)  
 
  The yield is computed on a fully tax-equivalent basis at an incremental tax rate of 34%.  

6

Loan Portfolio   
The Bank's loan portfolio categorized by loan type (excluding loans held for sale) as of December 31 is presented below. 

(Dollars in thousands) 

Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates   
The following schedule presents the maturities of loans (excluding residential real estate and consumer loans) as of December 31, 2005. All loans over one year in maturity (excluding residential real estate and consumer loans) are also presented classified according to the sensitivity to changes in interest rates as of December 31, 2005.  

(Dollars in thousands) 

(1)  
 
  Loan maturities are classified according to the contractual maturity date or the anticipated amortization period, whichever is appropriate. The anticipated amortization period is used in the case of loans where a balloon payment is due before the end of the loan's normal amortization period. At the time the balloon payment is due, the loan can either be rewritten or payment in full can be requested. The decision regarding whether the loan will be rewritten or a payment in full will be requested will be based upon the loan's payment history, the borrower's current financial condition, and other relevant factors.  

Risk Elements   
The following loans were classified as nonperforming as of December 31:  

(Dollars in thousands) 

A loan is placed on nonaccrual status at the point in time at which the collectibility of principal or interest is considered doubtful. The table below illustrates interest forgone and interest recorded on nonperforming loans for the years presented. 

7

(Dollars in thousands) 

Potential Problem Loans   
At December 31, 2005, there were $8.5 million of loans not disclosed above where some concern existed as to the borrowers' abilities to comply with original loan terms. A specific loss allocation of $465,000 from the Bank's allowance for loan losses had been allocated for nonperforming and potential problem loans as of December 31, 2005. However, the entire allowance for loan losses is also available for these potential problem loans. 

   Loan Concentrations   
As of December 31, 2005, there was no concentration of loans exceeding 10% of total loans that is not otherwise disclosed as a category of loans in the loan portfolio listing in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report. 

   Other Interest-Bearing Assets   
Other than $1.3 million of other real estate owned, there were no other interest-bearing assets requiring disclosure if such assets were loans as of December 31, 2005. 

   Summary of Loan Loss Experience   
The following schedule presents a summary of activity in the allowance for loan losses for the periods shown and the percentage of net charge-offs during each period to average gross loans outstanding during the period.  

(Dollars in thousands) 

8 

(1)  
 
  Additions to the allowance for loan losses charged to operations during the periods shown were based on management's judgment after considering factors such as loan loss experience, evaluation of the loan portfolio, and prevailing and anticipated economic conditions. The evaluation of the loan portfolio is based upon various risk factors such as the financial condition of the borrower, the value of collateral and other considerations, which, in the opinion of management, deserve current recognition in estimating loan losses.  

The following schedule presents an allocation of the allowance for loan losses to the various loan categories as of the years ended December 31. 

(Dollars in thousands) 

The increase from 2004 to 2005 in the allocation to commercial and agricultural was primarily based upon portfolio growth of 14%, offset by higher specific loss allocation to nonperforming loans ($465,000 in 2005 versus $105,000 in 2004). Specific loss allocations are based upon either a discounted collateral amount or the net present value of future expected cashflows from borrowers. The increase from 2004 to 2005 in the allocation to residential real estate and consumer loans related to higher historical loss ratios in 2005 compared to 2004.  

 During 2005, the Bank experienced significant improvements in the overall quality of its loan portfolio, as net loans charged off were the lowest dollar amount since 1996 ($271,000). Management periodically reviews the assumptions, loss ratios and delinquency trends in estimating the appropriate level of its allowance for loan losses and believes the unallocated portion of the total allowance is sufficient at December 31, 2005. 

 The following schedule presents the stratification of the loan portfolio by category, based on the amount of loans outstanding as a percentage of total loans for the respective years ended December 31. 

Deposits   
The following schedule presents the average deposit balances by category and the average rates paid thereon for the respective years. 

(Dollars in thousands) 

9

The following table illustrates the maturities of certificates of deposits issued in denominations of $100,000 or more as of December 31, 2005.  

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Short-Term Borrowings   
Federal funds purchased by the Registrant are unsecured overnight borrowings from correspondent banks. Federal funds purchased are due the next business day. The table below provides additional information regarding these short-term borrowings:  

(Dollars in thousands) 

Repurchase agreements are advances by Bank customers that are not covered by federal deposit insurance. These agreements are direct obligations of the Registrant and are secured by securities held in safekeeping at a correspondent bank. The table below provides additional information regarding these short-term borrowings: 

(Dollars in thousands) 

Advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") with original repayment terms less than one year are considered short-term borrowings for the Registrant. These advances are secured by residential real estate mortgage loans and U.S. government agency securities. The advances have maturities ranging from 3 months to 11 months from date of issue. The table below provides additional information regarding these short-term borrowings:  

(Dollars in thousands) 

There were no other categories of short-term borrowings whose average balance outstanding exceeded 30% of shareholders' equity in 2005, 2004, or 2003. 

10

Return on Equity and Assets   
The following schedule presents the Registrant's ratios for the years ended December 31: 

Item 1A.   
 
   Risk Factors   

The Registrant is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Although the Registrant seeks ways to manage these risks and develop programs to control those that management can, the Registrant cannot predict the future. Actual results may differ materially from management's expectations. Some of these significant risks and uncertainties are discussed below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that the Registrant faces. Additional risks and uncertainties of which the Registrant is unaware, or that it currently deems immaterial, also may become important factors that affect the Registrant and its business. If any of these risks were to occur, the Registrant's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

   Investments in the Registrant's common stock involve risk.   

 The market price of the Registrant's common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: 

Variations in quarterly or annual operating results  

Changes in interest rates  

New developments in the banking industry  

Regulatory actions  

Volatility of stock market prices and volumes  

Changes in market valuations of similar companies  

New litigation or contingencies or changes in existing litigation or contingencies  

Changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies  

Rumors or erroneous information  

Asset quality could be less favorable than expected.   

 A significant source of risk for the Registrant arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Most loans originated by the Registrant are secured, but some loans are unsecured depending on the nature of the loan. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans includes a wide variety of real and personal property that may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans. Collateral values may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other external events. In addition, collateral appraisals that are out of date or that do not meet industry recognized standards may create the impres
sion that a loan is adequately collateralized when in fact it is not. 

   General economic conditions in the state of Michigan could be less favorable than expected.   

 The Registrant is affected by general economic conditions in the United States, although most directly within Michigan. A further economic downturn within Michigan could negatively impact household and corporate incomes. 

11

This impact may lead to decreased demand for both loan and deposit products and increase the number of customers who fail to pay interest or principal on their loans. 

   If the Registrant does not adjust to changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer.   

 The Registrant's ability to maintain its financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to maintain and grow its core deposit customer base and expand its financial services to its existing customers. In addition to other banks, competitors include credit unions, securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is, in part, a result of changes in the economic environment within the state of Michigan, regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. New competitors may emerge to increase the degree of competition for the Registrant's customers and services. Financial services and products are also constantly changing. The Registrant's financial performance will also depend in part upon customer demand for the Registrant's products and services and the Registrant's ability
 to develop and offer competitive financial products and services. 

   Changes in interest rates could reduce the Registrant's income and cash flow.   

 The Registrant's income and cash flow depends, to a great extent, on the difference between the interest earned on loans and securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Market interest rates are beyond the Registrant's control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies including, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates and interest rate relationships, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rate received on loans and securities and paid on deposits and other borrowings. 

   Additional risks and uncertainties could have a negative effect on financial performance.   

 Additional factors could have a negative effect on the financial performance of the Registrant and the Registrant's common stock. Some of these factors are financial market conditions, changes in financial accounting and reporting standards, new litigation or changes in existing litigation, regulatory actions and losses.  

Item 1B.   
 
   Unresolved Staff Comments   

None. 

Item 2.   
 
   Properties   

The offices of the Bank, Insurance Agency, and Mortgage Company as of February 28, 2006, were as follows: 

 Registrant's, Bank's, Insurance Agency's, and Mortgage Company's main office: 
     109 East Division, Sparta, Michigan 
     Office is owned by the Bank and comprises 24,000 square feet. 

 Bank's branch office:  
     416 West Division, Sparta, Michigan 
     Office is leased by the Bank and comprises 3,000 square feet. 

 Bank's branch office: 
     4170 - 17 Mile Road, Cedar Springs, Michigan 
     Office is owned by the Bank and comprises 3,000 square feet. 

12

Bank's branch office: 
     5050 Alpine Avenue NW, Comstock Park, Michigan 
     Office is owned by the Bank and comprises 2,400 square feet. 

 Bank's branch office:  
     6795 Courtland Drive, Rockford, Michigan 
     Office is owned by the Bank and comprises 2,400 square feet. 

 The Registrant operates its business at the main office of the Bank. The Registrant did not own any properties as of February 28, 2006. The Registrant, Insurance Agency, and Mortgage Company believe that their offices are suitable and adequate for their future needs and are in good condition. The Registrant's management believes all offices are adequately covered by property insurance. 

Item 3.   
 
   Legal Proceedings   

As of December 31, 2005, there are no significant pending legal proceedings to which the Registrant or the Bank is a party or to which any of their properties are subject, except for legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, pending legal proceedings will not have a material effect on the consolidated financial condition of the Registrant. 

Item 4.   
 
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended December 31, 2005. 

   PART II   

Item 5.   
 
   Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

The information under the caption "Common Stock Information" on page 2 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference. 

 On October 19, 2005, the Registrant issued 1,239 shares of common stock to its directors pursuant to the Directors' Stock Purchase Plan for an aggregate cash price of $25,000. The Registrant relied on the exemption contained in Section 4(6) of the Securities Act of 1933 in connection with this sale. 

 On December 13, 2005, the Registrant issued 261 shares of common stock to its directors pursuant to the Directors' Stock Purchase Plan for an aggregate cash price of $5,000. The Registrant relied on the exemption contained in Section 4(6) of the Securities Act of 1933 in connection with this sale. 

  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

13

(1)  On July 21, 2004, the Board of Directors authorized the Registrant to repurchase 50,000 shares under a publicly announced repurchase plan. There is no stated expiration date. All shares purchased by the Registrant during the three months ended December 31, 2005 were made as open-market transactions. 

Item 6.   
 
   Selected Financial Data   

The information under the caption "Selected Financial Data" on page 3 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 7.   
 
   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

The information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," including all subheadings, on pages 4 through 13, inclusive, of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 7A.   
 
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

The information under the subheading "Liquidity and Interest Rate Risk" under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 11 through 13, inclusive, of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 8.   
 
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, Consolidated Financial Statements, and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 15 through 36 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, are incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 9.   
 
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

The information under the caption "Change in Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" on page 14 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005 is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 9A.   
 
   Controls and Procedures   

An evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of the Registrant's management, including the Chief Executive Officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Registrant's disclosure controls and procedures. Based on and as of the time of that evaluation, the Registrant's management, including the Chief Executive Officer and principal financial officer, concluded that the Registrant's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. There was no change in the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the three months ended December 31, 2005 that has materially affected, or that is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

Item 9B.   
 
   Other Information   

None. 

14

PART III   

Item 10.   
 
   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

The information under the captions "ChoiceOne's Board of Directors and Executive Officers" and "Related Matters - Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 27, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. 

 The Registrant has adopted a Code of Ethics for Executive Officers and Senior Financial Officers, which applies to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, as well as all other senior financial and accounting officers. The Code of Ethics is posted on the Registrant's website at "www.choiceone.com." The Registrant intends to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or a waiver from, a provision of the Code of Ethics by posting such information on its website at "www.choiceone.com." 

Item 11.   
 
   Executive Compensation   

The information under the captions "Executive Compensation" and "ChoiceOne's Board of Directors and Executive Officers - Compensation of Directors" in the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 27, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 12.   
 
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

The information under the caption "Ownership of ChoiceOne Common Stock" in the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 27, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. 

 The following table presents information regarding the equity compensation plans both approved and not approved by shareholders at December 31, 2005: 

Number of securities to 
be issued upon exercise 
of outstanding options, 
warrants and rights   

Weighted-average 
exercise price of 
outstanding options, 
warrants and rights   

Number of securities 
remaining available for 
future issuance under 
equity compensation plans 
(excluding securities 
reflected in column (a))   

(a)  

(b)  

(c)  

Equity compensation plans approved 
     by security holders  

23,714  

$  16.82  

134,466  

Equity compensation plans not 
     approved by security holders  

- -   

- -   

48,480   

Total  
 
  23,714   

$  16.82   

182,946   

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders include the Amended and Restated Executive Stock Incentive Plan and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan.  

 The Amended and Restated Executive Stock Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at the annual meeting of the Registrant in April 2002. Key employees of the Registrant and its subsidiaries, as the Personnel and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors may select from time to time, are eligible to receive awards under this Plan. Incentive awards may be stock options, stock appreciation rights or stock awards. The Plan provides for a maximum of 113,375 shares of the Registrant's common stock, subject to adjustments for certain changes in the capital structure of the Registrant. New awards for up to 89,441 shares may be made under this Plan. 

15

The number of shares available for issuance under the Plan is equal to the number determined by the following formula: (a) for the initial plan year, 5% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding at the time the Plan became effective; plus (b) in each subsequent plan year, an additional number of shares of common stock not to exceed 2% of the number of shares of common stock outstanding as reported in the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending immediately before such plan year such that at the beginning of each plan year after the initial plan year there shall be available, in addition to any amount of shares remaining from the 5% authorization for the initial plan year, a minimum number of shares equal to 2% of the number of shares of common stock outstanding; plus (c) there shall be carried forward and available for additional awards certain shares that are either unused, canceled or surrendered in connection with incentive awards. 

 The Employee Stock Purchase Plan was approved by shareholders at the annual meeting of shareholders in April 2002. This Plan allows employees to purchase the Registrant's common stock at a 15% discount from the average bid price for the Registrant's common stock. Employees who elect to participate in the plan can purchase shares of the Registrant's common stock on a quarterly basis. The Plan provides for a maximum of 55,125 shares of the Registrant's common stock, subject to adjustments for certain changes in the capital structure of the Registrant. New issuances for up to 45,025 may be made under this Plan. 

 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders consist of the Directors' Stock Purchase Plan. The Plan is designed to provide directors of the Registrant the option of receiving their fees in the Registrant's stock. Directors who elect to participate in the Plan may elect to contribute to the Plan twenty-five, fifty, seventy-five or one hundred percent of their board of director fees and one hundred percent of their director committee fees earned as directors of the Registrant. Contributions to the Plan are made by the Registrant on behalf of each electing participant. Plan participants may terminate their participation in the Plan at any time by written notice of withdrawal to the Registrant. Participants will cease to be eligible to participate in the Plan when they cease to serve as directors of the Registrant. Shares are distributed to participants on a quarterly basis. The Plan provides for a maximum of 72,978 shares of the Registrant's common stock, subject to adjustments for certain cha
nges in the capital structure of the Registrant. New issuances for up to 48,480 may be made under this Plan. 

Item 13.   
 
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

The information under the caption "Related Matters - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" in the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 27, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 14.   
 
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

The information under the caption "Related Matters - Independent Certified Public Accountants" in the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 27, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. 

PART IV   

Item 15.   
 
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

16 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003.  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm dated March 7, 2006.  

The consolidated financial statements, notes to consolidated financial statements and independent auditors' report listed above are incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report from the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

(2)  
 
   Financial   Statement   Schedules . None.  

(b)  

Exhibits . The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:  

Exhibit   
 
                                                                     Document   

3.1  
 
  Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant.  

3.2  
 
  Bylaws of the Registrant as currently in effect and any amendments thereto. Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2003. Here incorporated by reference.  

4  
 
  Advances, Pledge and Security Agreement between ChoiceOne Bank and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis. Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001. Here incorporated by reference.  

10.1  
 
  Agreement with James A. Bosserd. (1) Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 2002. Here incorporated by reference.  

10.2  
 
  Amended and Restated Executive Stock Incentive Plan. (1)  

10.3  
 
  Directors' Stock Purchase Plan. (1) Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2003. Here incorporated by reference.  

13  
 
  Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

16  
 
  Letter regarding Change in Certifying Accountant  

21  
 
  Subsidiaries of the Registrant.  

23  
 
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

24  
 
  Powers of Attorney.  

31.1  
 
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer.  

31.2  
 
  Certification of Treasurer.  

32  
 
  Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350.  

_____________________________ 

(1)  
 
  This agreement is a management contract or compensation plan or arrangement to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.  

Copies of any exhibits will be furnished to shareholders upon written request. Requests should be directed to: Thomas L. Lampen, Treasurer, ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., 109 East Division, Sparta, Michigan, 49345. 

17

SIGNATURES  

 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc.  

By /s/ James A. Bosserd   

March 31, 2006  

James A. Bosserd 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

*By  
 
  /s/ Thomas L. Lampen   

Attorney-in-Fact  

18

EXHIBIT INDEX 

Exhibit   
 
                                                                     Document   

3.1  
 
  Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant.  

3.2  
 
  Bylaws of the Registrant as currently in effect and any amendments thereto. Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2003. Here incorporated by reference.  

4  
 
  Advances, Pledge and Security Agreement between ChoiceOne Bank and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis. Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001. Here incorporated by reference.  

10.1  
 
  Agreement with James A. Bosserd. (1) Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 2002. Here incorporated by reference.  

10.2  
 
  Amended and Restated Executive Stock Incentive Plan. (1)  

10.3  
 
  Directors' Stock Purchase Plan. (1) Previously filed as an exhibit to the Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2003. Here incorporated by reference.  

13  
 
  Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

16  
 
  Letter regarding Change in Certifying Accountant  

21  
 
  Subsidiaries of the Registrant.  

23  
 
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

24  
 
  Powers of Attorney.  

31.1  
 
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer.  

31.2  
 
  Certification of Treasurer.  

32  
 
  Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350.  

_____________________________ 

(1)  
 
  This agreement is a management contract or compensation plan or arrangement to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.  

19 

<EX-3.1>
 2
 choiceex31_033106.htm
 CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES EXHIBIT 3.1 TO FORM 10-K

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., Exhibit 3.1 to Form 10-K - 03-31-06 

EXHIBIT 3.1  

 RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION 
 
OF 
 
1ST COMMUNITY BANCORP, INC. 

ARTICLE I   

NAME  

The name of the corporation is: 

 CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. 

ARTICLE II   

PURPOSES  

The purposes of the corporation are to engage in any activity within the purposes for which corporations may be organized under the Michigan Business Corporation Act. 

ARTICLE III   

AUTHORIZED CAPITAL  

The total authorized capital stock of the corporation is Four Million One Hundred Thousand (4,100,000) shares of stock divided into two classes, as follows:  

A.          Four Million (4,000,000) shares of common stock, which shall be called "Common Stock."  

B.          One Hundred Thousand (100,000) shares of preferred stock, which shall be called "Preferred Stock." 

The following provisions shall apply to the authorized stock of the corporation: 

1.           Provisions   Applicable   to   Common   Stock . 

a.           No Preference .  None of the shares of Common Stock shall be entitled to any preferences, and each share of Common Stock shall be equal to every other share of said Common Stock in every respect. 

           b.           Dividends .  After payment or declaration of full dividends on all shares having a priority over the Common Stock as to dividends, and after making all required sinking or retirement fund payments, if any, on all classes of Preferred Stock and on any other stock of the corporation ranking as to dividends or assets prior to the Common Stock, dividends on the shares of Common Stock may be declared and paid, but only when and as determined by the Board of Directors. 

           c.           Rights on Liquidation .  On any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the corporation, after there shall have been paid to or set aside for the holders of all shares having priority over the Common Stock the full preferential amounts to which they are respectively entitled, the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to receive pro rata all the remaining assets of the corporation available for distribution to shareholders.  The Board of Directors may distribute in kind to the holders of Common Stock such remaining assets of the corporation or may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or any part of such remaining assets to any person and may sell all or any part of the consideration so received and distribute any balance thereof in kind to holders of Common Stock.  The merger or consolidation of the corporation into or with any other corporation, or the merger or consolidation of any other corporati
on into it, or any purchase or redemption of shares of stock of the corporation of any class, shall not be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the corporation for the purposes of this paragraph. 

           d.           Voting .  At all meetings of shareholders of the corporation, the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to one (1) vote for each share of Common Stock held by them respectively. 

2.           Provisions   Applicable   To   Preferred   Stock . 

a.           Provisions to be Fixed by the Board of Directors .  The Board of Directors is expressly authorized at any time, and from time to time, to provide for the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series, each with such voting powers, full or limited, or without voting powers, and with such 

designations, preferences and relative, participating, conversion, optional or other rights, and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as shall be stated in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue thereof adopted by the Board of Directors, and as are not stated in these Restated Articles of Incorporation, or any amendments thereto, including (without limiting the generality of the foregoing) the following: 

(1)          The distinctive designation and number of shares comprising such series, which number may (except where otherwise provided by the Board of Directors in creating such series) be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares then outstanding) from time to time by action of the Board of Directors. 

           (2)          The stated value of the shares of such series. 

           (3)          The dividend rate or rates on the shares of such series and the relation which such dividends shall bear to the dividends payable on any other class of capital stock or on any other series of Preferred Stock, the terms and conditions upon which and the periods in respect of which dividends shall be payable, whether and upon what conditions such dividends shall be cumulative and, if cumulative, the date or dates from which dividends shall accumulate. 

           (4)          Whether the shares of such series shall be redeemable and, if redeemable, whether redeemable for cash, property or rights, including securities of any other corporation, and whether redeemable at the option of the holder or the corporation or upon the happening of a specified event, the limitations and restrictions with respect to such redemption, the time or times when, the price or prices or rate or rates at which, the adjustments with which and the manner in which such shares shall be redeemable, including the manner of selecting shares of such series for redemption if less than all shares are to be redeemed. 

           (5)          The rights to which the holders of shares of such series shall be entitled, and the preferences, if any, over any other series (or of any other series over such series), upon the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, distribution or winding up of the corporation, which rights may vary depending on whether such liquidation, dissolution, distribution or winding up is voluntary or involuntary, and, if voluntary, may vary at different dates. 

           (6)          Whether the shares of such series shall be subject to the operation of a purchase, retirement or sinking fund and, if so, whether and upon what conditions such fund shall be cumulative or noncumulative, the extent to which and the manner in which such fund 

shall be applied to the purchase or redemption of the shares of such series for retirement or to other corporation purposes and the terms and provisions relative to the operation thereof. 

           (7)          Whether the shares of such series shall be convertible into or exchangeable for shares of any other class or of any other series of any class of capital stock of the corporation or any other corporation, and, if so convertible or exchangeable, the price or prices or the rate or rates of conversion or exchange and the method, if any, of adjusting the same, and any other terms and conditions of such conversion or exchange. 

           (8)          The voting powers, if any, of the shares of such series, and whether and under what conditions the shares of such series (alone or together with the shares of one or more of other series having similar provisions) shall be entitled to vote separately as a single class, for the election of one or more additional directors of the corporation in case of dividend arrearages or other specified events, or upon other matters. 

           (9)          Whether the issuance of any additional shares of such series, or of any shares of any other series, shall be subject to restrictions as to issuance, or as to the powers, preferences or rights of any such other series. 

           (10)          Any other preferences, privileges and powers and relative participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such series, as the Board of Directors may deem advisable and as shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of these Restated Articles of Incorporation. 

b.           Provisions Applicable to All Preferred Stock . 

(1)          All Preferred Stock shall rank equally and be identical in all respects except as to the matters permitted to be fixed by the Board of Directors, and all shares of any one series thereof shall be identical in every particular except as to the date, if any, from which dividends on such shares shall accumulate. 

           (2)          Shares of Preferred Stock redeemed, converted, exchanged, purchased, retired or surrendered to the corporation, or which have been issued and reacquired in any manner, may, upon compliance with any applicable provisions of the Michigan Business Corporation Act, be given the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued by the Board of Directors as part of the series of which they were originally a part or may be reclassified into 

and reissued as part of a new series or as a part of any other series, all subject to the protective conditions or restrictions of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock. 

ARTICLE IV   

REGISTERED OFFICE AND RESIDENT AGENT  

The street address (which is the mailing address) of the current registered office is 109 East Division, Sparta, Michigan 49345. 

                     The name of the current resident agent is Jae M. Maxfield. 

ARTICLE V   

POWERS OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS  

In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by the Michigan Business Corporation Act, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized: 

A.          To make, alter or repeal the Bylaws of the corporation. 

B.          To authorize and cause to be executed mortgages and liens upon the real and personal property of the corporation. 

C.          To set apart out of any of the funds of the corporation available for dividends a reserve or reserves for any proper purpose and to abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created. 

D.          By a majority of the whole Board, to designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the corporation.  The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee.  The Bylaws may provide that 

in the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member.  Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, or in the Bylaws of the corporation, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power to authorize amending these Restated Articles of Incorporation, adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the shareholders the sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of the corporation's property and assets other t
han in the usual and regular course of its business, recommending to the shareholders a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a dissolution or amending the Bylaws of the corporation; and, unless the resolution or Bylaws expressly so provide, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock. 

E.          When and as authorized by the shareholders in accordance with the Michigan Business Corporation Act, to sell, lease or exchange all or substantially all of the property and assets of the corporation, including its goodwill and its corporate franchises, upon such terms and conditions and for such consideration, which may consist in whole or in part of money or property including shares of stock in, and/or other securities of, any other corporation or corporations, as the Board of Directors shall deem expedient and in the best interests of the corporation. 

F.          To elect and determine the duties of the officers of the corporation and to establish the rights, powers, duties, rules and procedures that (1) govern the Board of Directors, including without limitation the vote required for any action by the Board of Directors; and (2) affect the directors' power to manage the affairs of the corporation. 

           G.          To create and issue, by way of distributions to shareholders, as dividends or otherwise, rights or options entitling the holders thereof to purchase from the corporation shares of any class or series of the corporation's capital stock.  Such rights or options shall be evidenced in such manner as the Board shall approve and shall set forth the terms upon which, the time within which and the price at which such shares may be purchased from the corporation upon the exercise of any such right or option.  The terms and conditions of such rights or options may include, without limitation, provisions which adjust the option price or number of shares issuable under such rights or options in the event of an acquisition of shares or a reorganization, merger, consolidation, sale of assets or other occurrence involving the corporation, and restrictions or conditions that preclude or limit the entitlement, exercise or transfer of such rights or op
tions by any person or persons who, after the date of creation or issuance of such rights or options, acquires, obtains the right to acquire or offers to acquire directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership of a specified number or percentage of the 

corporation's outstanding voting shares or other shares of the corporation, or that invalidate or void such rights or options held by any such person or persons. 

H.          No Bylaw shall be adopted by shareholders which shall impair or impede the implementation of the foregoing. 

ARTICLE VI   

INDEMNIFICATION  

The corporation shall indemnify directors and executive officers of the corporation as of right to the fullest extent now or hereafter permitted by law in connection with any actual or threatened civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding (whether brought by or in the name of the corporation, a subsidiary or otherwise) arising out of their service to the corporation, a subsidiary or to another organization at the request of the corporation or a subsidiary.  The corporation may indemnify persons who are not directors or executive officers of the corporation to the extent authorized by Bylaw, resolution of the Board of Directors or contractual agreement authorized by the Board of Directors.  The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any such director, officer or other person against any liability asserted against the person and incurred by him or her in respect of such servi
ce whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability by law or under the provisions of this paragraph.  The provisions of this paragraph shall apply to actions, suits or proceedings, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after the adoption of this Article VI, and to directors, officers and other persons who have ceased to render such service, and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of the directors, officers and other persons referred to in this Article VI. 

ARTICLE VII   

DIRECTORS  

A.           Number and Term of Directors .  The corporation shall be managed by a Board of Directors who will initially be elected in accordance with this Section.  The number of directors shall not be less than nine (9) nor more than fifteen (15).  Initially there shall be eleven (11) directors.  The exact number of directors may be increased or decreased from time 

to time by the Board of Directors, pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors.  Effective on January 1, 1987, the members of the Board must be shareholders of the corporation.  The Board of Directors shall be divided into three (3) classes, with the term of office of one class expiring each year.  At the annual meeting of shareholders in 1986, four (4) directors of Class I shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the 1987 annual meeting, four (4) directors of Class II shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the 1988 annual meeting and three (3) directors of Class III shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the 1989 annual meeting.  Beginning with the annual meeting of shareholders in 1987, each class of directors whose term shall then expire shall be elected to hold office for a three (3) year term and until the election and qualification of their respective successors. 

B.           Nominations of Director Candidates . 

1.          Nominations of candidates for election as directors of the corporation at any meeting of shareholders called for election of directors (an "Election Meeting") may be made by the Board of Directors or by any shareholder entitled to vote at such Election Meeting. 

           2.          Nominations made by the Board of Directors shall be made at a meeting of the Board of Directors, or by written consent of directors in lieu of a meeting, not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of the Election Meeting, and such nominations shall be reflected in the minute books of the corporation as of the date made.  At the request of the Secretary of the corporation, each proposed nominee shall provide the corporation with such information concerning himself as is required under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission to be included in the corporation's proxy statement soliciting proxies for such person's election as a director. 

           3.          Any shareholder who intends to make a nomination at an Election Meeting shall deliver, not less than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the date of notice of the Election Meeting in the case of an annual meeting, and not more than seven (7) days following the date of notice of the meeting in the case of a special meeting, a notice to the Secretary of the corporation setting forth:  (a) the name, age, business address and residence address of each nominee proposed in such notice; (b) the principal occupation or employment of each such nominee; (c) the number of shares of capital stock of the corporation which are beneficially owned by each such nominee; (d) a statement that each such nominee is willing to be nominated and serve; and (e) such other information concerning each such nominee as would be required under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission in a proxy statement soliciting proxies fo
r the election of such nominees. 

4.          If the chairman of the Election Meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, such nomination shall be void. 

C.           Vacancies .  All vacancies in the membership of the Board shall be filled by appointment made by a majority vote of the remaining directors.  Any vacancy resulting from the removal of a director for cause shall be filled solely by appointment made by a majority of the Continuing Directors as defined in Article IX.  Each person so appointed to fill a vacancy shall remain a director until the next election of the class for which that director shall have been chosen and until that director's successor shall be elected by the shareholders. 

D.           Removal of Directors .  A director may be removed before the end of a term only for cause, except that the Bylaws may provide for mandatory retirement from the Board of Directors at seventy (70) years of age or older.  At any annual meeting of the shareholders, or at a meeting of shareholders called expressly for the purpose, the notice of which shall state that the removal of a director or directors is among the purposes of the meeting, the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors, present in person or by proxy, may remove such director or directors for cause.  If the holders of the shares of any class are entitled to elect one (1) or more directors by the provisions of these Restated Articles of Incorporation the provisions of this Section shall apply only to the vote of the holders of that class of outstanding shares. 

                     Except as may be provided otherwise by law, cause for removal shall be construed to exist only if: (1) the director whose removal is proposed has been convicted of a felony by a court of competent jurisdiction and such conviction is no longer subject to direct appeal; (2) such director has been adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction to be liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of such person's duty to the corporation in a matter of substantial importance to the corporation and such adjudication is no longer subject to a direct appeal; (3) such director has become mentally incompetent, whether or not so adjudicated, which mental incompetency directly affects such person's ability as a director of the corporation; or (4) the director's actions or failure to act have been in derogation of the director's duties, as provided in the Bylaws of the corporation or otherwise provided by law.  Any proposal for removal pur
suant to (3) or (4) of this paragraph which is initiated by the Board of Directors for submission to the shareholders shall require the affirmative vote of at least sixty-six and 2/3 percent (66-2/3%) of the total number of directors then in office, exclusive of the director who is the subject of the removal action and who shall not be entitled to vote thereon. 

ARTICLE VIII   

OPT-OUT PROVISION  

Pursuant to Section 784(l)(b) of the Michigan Business Corporation Act, the corporation elects not to be governed by Chapter 7A of the Michigan Business Corporation Act, or any amended versions of that Chapter.  

ARTICLE IX   

CERTAIN BUSINESS COMBINATIONS  

A.           Higher Vote Requirements For Certain Business Combinations .  In addition to any vote otherwise required by law or by these Restated Articles of Incorporation, a Business Combination shall require approval by an affirmative vote of not less than sixty-six and 2/3 percent (66-2/3%) of the Voting Stock, other than Voting Stock held by either (1) an Interested Shareholder who is, or whose Affiliate or Associate is, a party to a Business Combination, or (2) an Affiliate or Associate of the Interested Shareholder. 

B.           Conditions Exempting Higher Vote Requirements .  The vote requirements of Section A of this Article IX shall not be applicable to a particular Business Combination if the conditions specified in either one of the following paragraphs are met: 

1.           Approval By Continuing Directors .  The Business Combination has been approved by a vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors; or 

           2.           Fair Price Provision .  Payment to shareholders in the Business Combination is exclusively in the form of cash, or cash and notes at the individual shareholder's option, provided that the option is available to all shareholders, and all of the following conditions are met: 

a.           Common   Stock .  The amount of cash to be paid per share to holders of Common Stock of the corporation must be at least equal to the  highest  of the following amounts: 

(1)          The highest per share price, including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees, paid by the 

Interested Shareholder for any shares of Common Stock of the same class or series acquired by the Interested Shareholder at any time prior to the Announcement Date of the proposal of the Business Combination, or in the transaction in which it became an Interested Shareholder, whichever is higher. 

           (2)          The fair market value per share of Common Stock of the same class or series as determined in good faith by the Continuing Directors, which determination may be based upon an appraisal by any investment banking or similar firm, on the Announcement Date or on the Determination Date, whichever is higher. 

b.           Non-Common Stock .  The amount of the cash to be paid per share in the Business Combination to holders of shares of any class or series of outstanding stock other than Common Stock shall be at least equal to the  highest  of the following amounts, whether or not the Interested Shareholder has previously acquired any shares of the particular class or series of stock: 

(1)          The highest per share price, including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees, paid by the Interested Shareholder for any shares of the class of stock acquired at any time prior to the Announcement Date of the proposal of the Business Combination, or in the transaction in which it became an Interested Shareholder, whichever is higher. 

           (2)          The highest preferential amount per share to which the holders of shares of the class of stock are entitled in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation. 

           (3)          The fair market value per share of the class of stock as determined in good faith by the Continuing Directors, which determination may be based upon an appraisal by any investment banking or similar firm, on the Announcement Date or on the Determination Date, whichever is higher. 

c.           Other Conditions .  Prior to the consummation of a Business Combination by an Interested Shareholder, all of the following conditions shall be met: 

(1)          Any full periodic dividends, whether or not cumulative, on any outstanding Preferred Stock of the corporation shall have been declared and paid at the regular date therefor. 

(2)          The annual rate of dividends paid on any class or series of stock of the corporation that is not Preferred Stock, except as necessary to reflect any subdivision of the stock, shall not have been reduced, and the annual rate of dividends shall have increased as necessary to reflect any reclassification, including any reverse stock split, recapitalization, reorganization or any similar transaction that has the effect of reducing the number of outstanding shares of the stock. 

           (3)          The Interested Shareholder may not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly, except proportionately as a shareholder, of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or any tax credits or other tax advantages provided by the corporation or any of its subsidiaries, whether in anticipation of or in connection with the Business Combination or otherwise. 

           (4)          The Interested Shareholder did not become the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of the corporation except as part of the transaction that created the Interested Shareholder status or as a result of proportionate stock splits or stock dividends. 

d.           Proxy Statement .  A proxy statement describing the proposed Business Combination that complies with the disclosure requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and which complies with the disclosure requirements of the Michigan Blue Sky Laws, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively the "Acts"), must be sent by first class mail to all shareholders of the corporation at least thirty (30) days prior to the consummation of the Business Combination.  The proxy statement must be sent regardless of whether it is required by the Acts.  The proxy statement shall prominently display a recommendation of the Continuing Directors on the advisability or inadvisability of the Business Combination and a recommendation of any investment banking or similar firm selected by a majority of the Continuing Directors, as to the fairness of the Business Combination to the shareholders of the co
rporation. 

C.           Definitions . 

1.          "Affiliate" or "Affiliated Person" means a Person who directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with a specified Person. 

           2.          "Announcement Date" means the first general public announcement or the first communication generally to shareholders of the corporation, whichever is 

earlier, of the proposal or intention to make a proposal concerning a Business Combination. 

           3.          "Associate," when used to indicate a relationship with any person, means any one of the following: 

a.          Any corporation, partnership or other organization, (except for the corporation or a subsidiary of the corporation), in which the Person is (1) 
7.          These Restated Articles of Incorporation were duly adopted on the 27th day of May, 1997 in accordance with the provisions of Section 642 of the Act and were duly adopted by the written consent of all the shareholders entitled to vote in accordance with section 407(2) of the Act. 

an officer, director or partner, or (2) directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of ten percent (10%) or more of any class of Equity Securities. 

b.          Any trust or other estate (1) in which the Person has a beneficial interest of ten percent (10%) or more, or (2) as to which the Person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity. 

           c.          Any relative of the Person or the Person's spouse who has the same residence as the Person or who is a director or officer of the corporation or any of its Affiliates. 

4.          "Beneficial Owner," when used with respect to any Voting Stock, means a Person who: 

a.          Individually or with any of its Affiliates or Associates, beneficially owns Voting Stock, directly or indirectly. 

           b.          Individually or with any of its Affiliates or Associates has: 

(1)          The right to acquire Voting Stock whether the right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time, pursuant to any agreement, or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants, options or otherwise. 

           (2)          The right to vote Voting Stock pursuant to any agreement. 

           (3)          Any agreement for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of Voting Stock with any other person who beneficially owns, or whose Affiliates or Associates beneficially own, directly or indirectly, the Voting Stock. 

5.          "Book Value" means the net amount of an asset or group of assets shown in the accounting records which record the cost of the asset less reductions from the cost of the asset, such as depreciation and amortization, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 

           6.          "Business Combination" means any one of the following: 

a.          Any merger or consolidation of the corporation, or any subsidiary of the corporation, that alters the contract rights of the Voting Stock as expressly set forth in these Restated Articles of Incorporation or changes or converts, in whole or in part, the outstanding shares of the corporation with either: 

(1)          Any Interested Shareholder. 

           (2)          Any other corporation, whether or not itself an Interested Shareholder, which is, or after the merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate of an Interested Shareholder that was an Interested Shareholder prior to the transaction. 

b.          Any sale, lease, transfer or other disposition, except in the ordinary course of business, in one transaction or a series of transactions in any twelve (12) month period, to any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder (other than the corporation or any of its subsidiaries) of any assets of the corporation or any of its subsidiaries having an aggregate Book Value as of the end of the corporation's most recently ended fiscal quarter of ten percent (10%) or more of its Consolidated Net Worth measured at the time the transaction or transactions are approved by the Board of Directors of the corporation. 

           c.          The issuance or transfer by the corporation, or any of its subsidiaries in one transaction or a series of transactions, of any Equity Securities of the corporation or any of its subsidiaries that have an aggregate market value of ten percent (10%) or more of the total fair market value of the outstanding shares of the corporation to any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder (other than the corporation or any of its subsidiaries) except pursuant to the exercise of warrants or rights to purchase Equity Securities offered pro rata to all holders of the corporation's Voting Stock or any other method affording substantially proportionate treatment to the holders of Voting Stock. 

           d.          The adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the corporation in which anything other than cash will be received by an Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder. 

e.          Any reclassification of securities, including any reverse stock split, or recapitalization of the corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the corporation with any of its subsidiaries that has the effect, directly or indirectly, in one transaction or a series of transactions, of increasing by ten percent (10%) or more of the total number of outstanding shares, the proportionate amount of the outstanding shares of any class of Equity Securities of the corporation or any of its subsidiaries which is directly or indirectly owned by any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder. 

7.          "Common Stock" means any stock other than preferred or preference stock. 

           8.          "Consolidated Net Worth" means the total assets of the corporation less its total liabilities determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 

           9.          "Continuing Director" means any member of the Board of Directors of the corporation who is not an Affiliate or an Associate of an Interested Shareholder and either (a) was a member of the Board of Directors prior to the time that the Interested Shareholder became an Interested Shareholder, or (b) is a successor to a Continuing Director who is not an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Shareholder and is recommended to succeed a Continuing Director by a majority of the Continuing Directors who are then members of the Board of Directors. 

           10.          "Control," "controlling," "controlled by," or "under common control with" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting shares, by contract, or otherwise.  The Beneficial Ownership of 10% or more of the voting shares of a corporation shall create a presumption of control. 

           11.          "Determination Date" means the date on which an Interested Shareholder first became an Interested Shareholder. 

           12.          "Equity Security" or "Equity Securities" mean any one of the following: 

a.          Any stock or similar security, certificate of interest or participation in any profit sharing agreement, voting trust certificate or voting share. 

           b.          Any security convertible, with or without consideration, into an equity security, or any warrant or other security carrying any right to subscribe to or purchase an equity security. 

c.          Any put, call, straddle or other option or privilege of buying an equity security from, or selling an equity security to, another without being bound to do so. 

13.          "Interested Shareholder" means any Person (other than the corporation or any of its subsidiaries) who is either: 

a.          The Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent (10%) or more of the outstanding Voting Stock of the corporation. 

           b.          An Affiliate of the corporation and at any time within the two (2) year period immediately prior to the date in question was the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent (10%) or more of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the corporation. 

           c.          For the purpose of determining whether a Person is an Interested Shareholder pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b), the number of shares of Voting Stock considered to be outstanding shall include all Voting Stock owned by the Person. 

14.          "Person" means any entity including, without limitation, an individual, a corporation, a partnership, a trust, a bank, a joint stock company, an unincorporated association or similar organization. 

           15.          "Valuation Date" means: 

a.          In a Business Combination voted upon by shareholders, the day prior to the date of the shareholders vote or the day which is twenty (20) calendar days prior to the consummation of the Business Combination, whichever is later. 

           b.          In a Business Combination not voted upon by shareholders, the date of the consummation of the Business Combination. 

16.          "Voting Stock" means all outstanding shares of Common Stock and Preferred Stock of the corporation entitled to vote in an election of directors. 

ARTICLE X   

EVALUATION OF OFFERS  

The Board of Directors shall not initiate, approve, adopt or recommend any offer of any party other than the corporation to make a tender or exchange offer for any equity security of the corporation, or to engage in any Business Combination as defined in Article IX, unless and until it shall have first evaluated the proposed offer and determined in its judgment that the proposed offer would be in compliance with all applicable laws.  In evaluating a proposed offer to determine whether it would be in compliance with law, the Board of Directors shall consider all aspects of the proposed offer, including the manner in which the offer is proposed to be made, the documents proposed for the communication of the offer and the effects and consequences of the offer if consummated, in the light of the laws of the United States of America and affected states and foreign countries.  In connection with this evaluation, the Board may seek and rely up
on the opinion of independent legal counsel and it may test the legality of the proposed offer in any state, federal or foreign court or before any state, federal or foreign administrative agency which may have jurisdiction.  If the Board of Directors determines in its judgment that a proposed offer would be in compliance with all applicable laws, the Board of Directors shall then evaluate the proposed offer and determine whether the proposed offer is in the best interests of the corporation and its shareholders.  The Board of Directors shall not initiate, approve, adopt or recommend any such offer which in its judgment would not be in the best interests of the corporation and its shareholders.  In evaluating a proposed offer to determine whether it would be in the best interests of the corporation and its shareholders, the Board of Directors shall consider all factors which it deems relevant including, without limitation: 

           A.          The fairness of the consideration to be received by the corporation and its shareholders under the proposed offer, taking into account the trading price of the corporation's stock immediately prior to the announcement of the proposed offer, the historical trading prices of the corporation's stock, the price that might be achieved in a negotiated sale of the corporation as a whole, premiums over the trading price of their securities which have been proposed or offered to other companies in the past in connection with similar offers and the future prospects of the corporation; 

B.          The possible social and economic impact of the proposed offer and its consummation on the corporation and its employees, customers and suppliers; 

C.          The possible social and economic impact of the proposed offer and its consummation on the communities in which the corporation and its subsidiaries operate or are located; 

D.          The business and financial conditions and earnings prospects of the offering party, including, without limitation, debt service and other existing or likely financial obligations of the offering party; 

E.          The competence, experience and integrity of the offering party and its management; and 

F.          The intentions of the offering party regarding the use of the assets of the corporation to finance the transaction. 

ARTICLE XI   

LIABILITY OF DIRECTORS  

A director of the corporation shall not be personally liable to the corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for a breach of the director's fiduciary duty, except for liability: 

A.          For any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its shareholders; 

B.          For any acts or omissions not in good faith or that involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; 

C.          For any violation of Section 551(1) of the Michigan Business Corporation Act; 

D.          For any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit; or 

E.          For any acts or omissions occurring before March 1, 1987. 

                     If the Michigan Business Corporation Act is amended after this Article has been adopted by the shareholders to authorize corporate action to further eliminate or limit the 

personal liability of directors, then the liability of a director of the corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the Michigan Business Corporation Act as amended. 

                     Any repeal, modification or adoption of any provision in these Restated Articles of Incorporation inconsistent with this Article XI shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the corporation existing at the time of such repeal, modification or adoption. 

ARTICLE XII   

DURATION  

The term of this corporation is perpetual. 

ARTICLE XIII   

AMENDMENTS  

These Restated Articles of Incorporation may be amended by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at any regular or special meeting of shareholders of the corporation if notice of the proposed amendment is contained in the notice of the meeting, except that the affirmative vote of not less than sixty-six and 2/3 percent (66-2/3%) of the shares entitled to vote at any regular or special meeting of shareholders of the corporation shall be necessary for any amendment to Articles VII, VIII, IX, X and this Article XIII. 

</EX-3.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 choiceex102_033106.htm
 CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES EXHIBIT 10.2 TO FORM 10-K

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-K - 03-31-06 

EXHIBIT 10.2  

  CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. 
AMENDED AND RESTATED EXECUTIVE STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  

   SECTION   1   

  Establishment   of   Plan ;  Purpose   of   Plan  

           1.1           Establishment   of   Plan .  The Company hereby establishes the AMENDED AND RESTATED EXECUTIVE STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN (the  Plan ) for its corporate and Subsidiary officers and other key employees.  The Plan permits the grant and award of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and Stock Awards. 

           1.2           Purpose   of   Plan .  The purpose of the Plan is to provide officers and key management employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries with an increased incentive to make significant and extraordinary contributions to the long-term performance and growth of the Company and its Subsidiaries, to join the interests of officers and key employees with the interests of the Company's shareholders through the opportunity for increased stock ownership and to attract and retain officers and key employees of exceptional abilities.  The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in structuring long-term incentive compensation to best promote the foregoing objectives. 

SECTION   2   

  Definitions  

                     The following words have the following meanings unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context: 

           2.1           Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   

           2.2           Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company. 

           2.3           Change in Control,  unless otherwise defined in an Incentive Award agreement, means an occurrence of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A issued under the Act.  Without limiting the inclusiveness of the definition in the preceding sentence, a Change in Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred as of the first day that any one or more of the following conditions is satisfied: (a) any Person is or becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; (b) the failure at any time of the Continuing Directors to constitute at least a majority of the Board; or (c) any of the following occur: (i) any merger or consolidation of the Company, other than a merger or consolid
ation in which the voting securities of the Company immediately prior to the merger or consolidation continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or being converted into securities of the surviving entity) 60% or more of the combined voting power of the Company or surviving entity 

immediately after the merger or consolidation with another entity; (ii) any sale, exchange, lease, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in a single transaction or a series of related transactions) of assets or earning power aggregating more than 50% of the assets or earning power of the Company on a consolidated basis; (iii) any complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; (iv) any reorganization, reverse stock split or recapitalization of the Company which would result in a Change in Control as otherwise defined in this Plan; or (v) any transaction or series of related transactions having, directly or indirectly, the same effect as any of the foregoing. 

           2.4           Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

           2.5           Committee  means the Personnel and Benefits Committee of the Board or such other committee as the Board shall designate to administer the Plan.  The Committee shall consist of at least two members of the Board and all of its members shall be  non-employee directors  as defined in Rule 16b-3 issued under the Act. 

           2.6           Common Stock  means the Common Stock of the Company.  

           2.7           Company  means ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., a Michigan corporation, and its successors and assigns. 

           2.8           Consensual Severance  means the voluntary termination of all employment by the Participant with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that the Committee determines to be in the best interests of the Company. 

           2.9           Continuing Directors  means the individuals constituting the Board as of the date this Plan was adopted and any subsequent directors, if appointed or nominated by at least a majority of the Continuing Directors in office at the time of the nomination or appointment, but specifically excluding any individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of either an actual or threatened solicitation in opposition to any Continuing Director subject to Rule 14a-12(c) of Regulation 14A issued under the Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board. 

           2.10           Employee Benefit Plan  means any plan or program established by the Company or a Subsidiary for the compensation or benefit of employees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. 

           2.11           Incentive Award  means the award or grant of a Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right or Stock Award to a Participant pursuant to the Plan. 

           2.12           Market Value  of any security on any given date means:  (a) if the security is listed for trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market or one or more national securities exchanges, the last reported sales price on the date in question, or if the security shall not have been traded on the principal exchange on the applicable date, the last reported sales price on the first day before that date on which such security was so traded; (b) if the security is not so listed for trading but is traded in the over-the-counter market, the mean of highest bid and lowest asked prices for the 

2

security on the date in question, or if there are no bid and asked prices for the security on that date, the mean of the highest bid and lowest asked prices on the first day before that date on which such prices existed; or (c) if neither (a) nor (b) is applicable, the value as determined by any means considered fair and reasonable by the Committee, which determination shall be final and binding on all parties. 

           2.13           Participant  means a corporate officer or any key employee of the Company or its Subsidiaries who is granted an Incentive Award under the Plan. 

           2.14           Person  has the same meaning as set forth in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Act. 

           2.15           Plan Year  means the 12-month period beginning January 1 of each year, except that the Plan Year for purposes of the year in which the Plan becomes effective shall be that period between the effective date of the Plan and December 31 of such year. 

           2.16           Retirement  means the voluntary termination of all employment by the Participant after the Participant has attained 55 years of age and completed six years of service with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or as otherwise may be set forth in the Incentive Award agreement or other grant document with respect to a Participant and a particular Incentive Award. 

           2.17           Stock Appreciation Right  means any right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan. 

           2.18           Stock Award  means an award of Common Stock awarded to a Participant pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan. 

           2.19           Stock Option  means the right to purchase Common Stock at a stated price for a specified period of time.  For purposes of the Plan, a Stock Option may be either an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code or a nonqualified stock option. 

           2.20           Subsidiary  means any corporation or other entity of which 50% or more of the outstanding voting stock or voting ownership interest is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the Company or by one or more Subsidiaries of the Company. 

3

SECTION   3   

  Administration  

           3.1           Power   and   Authority .  The Committee shall administer the Plan.  The Committee may delegate record keeping, calculation, payment and other ministerial administrative functions to individuals designated by the Committee, who may be employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries.  Except as limited in this Plan, the Committee shall have all of the express and implied powers and duties set forth in this Plan, shall have full power and authority to interpret the provisions of the Plan and Incentive Awards granted under the Plan and shall have full power and authority to supervise the administration of the Plan and Incentive Awards granted under the Plan and to make all other determinations considered necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  All determinations, interpretations and selections made by the Committee regarding the Plan shall be final and conclusive.  The Committee shall hold its
 meetings at such times and places as it deems advisable.  Action may be taken by a written instrument signed by a majority of the members of the Committee and any action so taken shall be fully as effective as if it had been taken at a meeting duly called and held.  The Committee shall make such rules and regulations for the conduct of its business as it deems advisable. 

           3.2           Grants   or   Awards   to   Participants .  In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority to determine all provisions of Incentive Awards as the Committee may deem necessary or desirable and as are consistent with the terms of the Plan, including, without limitation, the following: (a) the persons who shall be selected as Participants; (b) the nature and extent of the Incentive Awards to be made to each Participant (including the number of shares of Common Stock to be subject to each Incentive Award, any exercise price, the manner in which an Incentive Award will vest or become exercisable and the form of payment for the Incentive Award); (c) the time or times when Incentive Awards will be granted; (d) the duration of each Incentive Award; and (e) the restrictions and other conditions to which payment or vesting of Incentive Awards may be subje
ct. 

           3.3           Amendments   or   Modifications   of   Awards .  The Committee shall have the authority to amend or modify the terms of any outstanding Incentive Award in any manner, provided that the amended or modified terms are not prohibited by the Plan as then in effect, including, without limitation, the authority to: (a) modify the number of shares or other terms and conditions of an Incentive Award; (b) extend the term of an Incentive Award; (c) accelerate the exercisability or vesting or otherwise terminate any restrictions relating to an Incentive Award; (d) accept the surrender of any outstanding Incentive Award; and (e) to the extent not previously exercised or vested, authorize the grant of new Incentive Awards in substitution for surrendered Incentive Awards. 

           3.4           Indemnification   of   Committee   Members .  Neither any member or former member of the Committee nor any individual to whom authority is or has been delegated shall be personally responsible or liable for any act or omission in connection with the performance of powers or duties or the exercise of discretion or judgment in the administration and implementation of the Plan.  Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee  

4

shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company from and against any cost, liability or expense imposed or incurred in connection with such person's or the Committee's taking or failing to take any action under the Plan.  Each such person shall be justified in relying on information furnished in connection with the Plan's administration by any appropriate person or persons. 

SECTION   4   

  Shares   Subject   to   the   Plan  

           4.1           Number   of   Shares .  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2 of the Plan, the total number of shares of Common Stock available for Incentive Awards under the Plan shall be (a) for the initial Plan Year, 5% of the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the time the Plan becomes effective; plus (b) in each subsequent  Plan Year, an additional number of shares of Common Stock not to exceed 2% of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as reported in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending immediately before such Plan Year such that at the beginning of each Plan Year after the initial Plan Year there shall be available, in addition to any amount of shares remaining from the 5% authorization for the initial Plan Year, a minimum number of shares equal to 2% of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding; plus (c) there shall be carried forward an
d available for Incentive Awards under the Plan all of the following (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2):  (i) shares subject to Incentive Awards that are canceled, surrendered, modified, exchanged for substitute Incentive Awards or expire or terminate prior to the exercise or vesting of the Incentive Award in full;  (ii) with respect to any succeeding Plan Year, any unused portion of the amount set forth in subsection (a) above; and (iii) shares that are surrendered to the Company in connection with the exercise or vesting of an Incentive Award, whether previously owned or otherwise subject to such Incentive Award.  Such shares shall be authorized and may be either unissued or treasury shares.  

           4.2           Adjustments . 

(a)           Stock   Dividends   and   Distributions .  If the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding changes by reason of a stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization or other general distribution of Common Stock or other securities to holders of Common Stock, the number and kind of securities subject to Incentive Awards and reserved for issuance under the Plan, together with applicable exercise prices, as well as the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan, shall be adjusted appropriately.  No fractional shares shall be issued pursuant to the Plan and any fractional shares resulting from such adjustments shall be eliminated from the respective Incentive Awards. 

           (b)           Other   Actions   Affecting   Common   Stock .  If there occurs, other than as described in the preceding subsection, any merger, business combination, recapitalization, reclassification, subdivision or combination approved by the Board that would result in the Persons who were shareholders of the Company immediately prior to the effective time of any such transaction owning or holding, in lieu of or in addition to 

5

shares of Common Stock, other securities, money and/or property (or the right to receive other securities, money and/or property) immediately after the effective time of such transaction, then the outstanding Incentive Awards and reserves for Incentive Awards under this Plan shall be adjusted in such manner and at such time as shall be equitable under the circumstances. It is intended that in the event of any such transaction, Incentive Awards under this Plan shall entitle the holder of each Incentive Award to receive (upon exercise in the case of Stock Options), in lieu of or in addition to shares of Common Stock, any other securities, money and/or property receivable upon consummation of any such transaction by holders of Common Stock with respect to each share of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of such transaction; upon any such adjustment, holders of Incentive Awards under this Plan shall have only the right to receive in lieu of or in addition to shares of Common Stoc
k such other securities, money and/or other property as provided by the adjustment.  If the agreement, resolution or other document approved by the Board to effect any such transaction provides for the adjustment of Incentive Awards under the Plan in connection with such transaction, then the adjustment provisions contained in such agreement, resolution or other document shall be final and conclusive. 

SECTION   5   

  Stock   Options  

           5.1           Grant .  A Participant may be granted one or more Stock Options under the Plan.  The Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the initial grant of a Stock Option for the subsequent automatic grant of additional Stock Options for the number of shares that are subject to the initial Stock Option and surrendered to the Company in connection with the exercise of the initial or any subsequently granted Stock Option.  Stock Options shall be subject to such terms and conditions, consistent with the other provisions of the Plan, as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  The Committee may vary, among Participants and among Stock Options granted to the same Participant, any and all of the terms and conditions of the Stock Options granted under the Plan.  The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of Stock Options granted to each Participant.  The Committee may designate wheth
er or not a Stock Option is to be considered an incentive stock option as defined in Section 422(b) of the Code;  provided , that the number of shares of Common Stock that may be designated as subject to incentive stock options for any given Participant shall be limited to that number of shares that become exercisable for the first time by the Participant during any Plan Year (under all plans of the Company and its Subsidiaries) and have an aggregate Market Value less than or equal to $100,000 (or such other amount as may be set forth in the Code) and all shares subject to an Incentive Award that have a Market Value in excess of such aggregate amount shall automatically be subject to Stock Options that are not incentive stock options. 

6

5.2           Stock   Option   Agreements .  Stock Options shall be evidenced by stock option agreements containing such terms and conditions, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall from time to time determine.  To the extent not covered by the stock option agreement, the terms and conditions of this Section 5 shall govern. 

           5.3           Stock   Option   Price .  The per share Stock Option price shall be determined by the Committee, but shall be a price that is equal to or higher than the par value of the Company's Common Stock;  provided  that the per share Stock Option price for any shares designated as incentive stock options shall be equal to or greater than 100% of the Market Value on the date of grant. 

           5.4           Medium   and   Time   of   Payment .  The exercise price for each share purchased pursuant to a Stock Option granted under the Plan shall be payable in cash or, if the Committee consents, in shares of Common Stock (including Common Stock to be received upon a simultaneous exercise) or other consideration substantially equivalent to cash.  The time and terms of payment may be amended with the consent of a Participant before or after exercise of a Stock Option.  The Committee may from time to time authorize payment of all or a portion of the Stock Option price in the form of a promissory note or other deferred payment installments according to such terms as the Committee may approve.  The Board may restrict or suspend the power of the Committee to permit such loans and may require that adequate security be provided. 

           5.5           Stock   Options   Granted   to   Ten   Percent   Shareholders .  No Stock Option granted to any Participant who at the time of such grant owns, together with stock attributed to such Participant under Section 424(d) of the Code, more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries may be designated as an incentive stock option, unless such Stock Option provides an exercise price equal to at least 110% of the Market Value of the Common Stock and the exercise of the Stock Option after the expiration of five years from the date of grant of the Stock Option is prohibited by its terms. 

           5.6           Limits   on   Exercisability .  Except as provided in Section 5.5, Stock Options shall be exercisable for such periods, not to exceed 10 years from the date of grant, as may be fixed by the Committee.  At the time of the exercise of a Stock Option, the holder of the Stock Option, if requested by the Committee, must represent to the Company that the shares are being acquired for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof.  The Committee may in its discretion require a Participant to continue the Participant's service with the Company and its Subsidiaries for a certain length of time prior to a Stock Option becoming exercisable and may eliminate such delayed vesting provisions. 

7

5.7           Restrictions   on   Transferability . 

(a)           General .  Unless the Committee otherwise consents (before or after the option grant) or unless the stock option agreement or grant provides otherwise; (i) no incentive stock options granted under the Plan may be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated except by will or the laws of descent and distribution; and (ii) all Stock Options that are not incentive stock options may be transferred,  provided , that as a condition to any such transfer the transferee must execute a written agreement permitting the Company to withhold from the shares subject to the Stock Option a number of shares having a Market Value at least equal to the amount of any federal, state or local withholding or other taxes associated with or resulting from the exercise of the Stock Option.  All provisions of a Stock Option that are determined with reference to the Participant, including without lim
itation those that refer to the Participant's employment with the Company or its Subsidiaries, shall continue to be determined with reference to the Participant after any transfer of a Stock Option. 

           (b)           Other   Restrictions .  The Committee may impose other restrictions on any shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the exercise of a Stock Option under the Plan as the Committee deems advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under applicable federal or state securities laws. 

5.8           Termination   of   Employment . 

(a)   General .  If a Participant is no longer employed by the Company or its Subsidiary for any reason other than the Participant's Consensual Severance, Retirement, death, disability or termination for cause, the Participant may exercise his or her Stock Options in accordance with their terms for a period of three months after such termination of employment unless the terms of the applicable stock option agreement or grant provide otherwise, but only to the extent the Participant was entitled to exercise the Stock Options on the date of termination.  For purposes of the Plan: (i) a transfer of an employee from the Company to any Subsidiary; (ii) a leave of absence, duly authorized in writing by the Company, for military service or for any other purpose approved by the Company if the period of such leave does not exceed 90 days; and (iii) a leave of absence in excess of 90 days, duly authorized in writing by the Company, provided the employee's 
right to reemployment is guaranteed either by statute, contract or written policy of the Company shall not be deemed a termination of employment.  For purposes of the Plan, termination of employment shall be considered to occur on the date on which the employee is no longer obligated to perform services for the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and the employee's right to reemployment is not guaranteed either by statute, contract or written policy of the Company, regardless of whether the employee continues to receive compensation from the Company or any of its Subsidiaries after such date. 

           (b)   Consensual   Severance .  If a Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or one of its Subsidiaries due to Consensual Severance, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit the Participant to exercise his or her Stock Options  in accordance with their terms and to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise 

8

the Stock Options on the date of termination for a period of time after such termination of employment as may be determined by the Committee, provided, that such period may not extend beyond the earlier of three years after the date of termination or the dates on which such Stock Options expire by their terms. 

           (c)   Retirement .  If a Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or one of its Subsidiaries due to Retirement, the Participant may exercise his or her Stock Options in accordance with their terms for a period of three years after such termination of employment unless such Stock Options earlier expire by their terms, but only to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise the Stock Options on the date of termination. 

           (d)   Disability .  If a Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or one of its Subsidiaries due to the Participant's disability, he or she may exercise his or her Stock Options in accordance with their terms for one year after he or she ceases to be employed unless such Stock Options earlier expire by their terms, but only to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise the Stock Options on the date of such termination. 

           (e)   Death .  If a Participant dies either while an employee or otherwise during a time when the Participant could have exercised a Stock Option, the Stock Options issued to such Participant shall be exercisable in accordance with their terms by the personal representative of such Participant or other successor to the interest of the Participant for a period of one year after such Participant's death to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise the Stock Options on the date of death but not beyond the original term of the Stock Options. 

           (f)   Termination   for   Cause .  If a Participant's employment is terminated for cause, the Participant shall have no further right to exercise any Stock Options previously granted him or her. 

SECTION   6   

  Stock   Appreciation   Rights  

           6.1           Grant .  A Participant may be granted one or more Stock Appreciation Rights under the Plan and such Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to such terms and conditions, consistent with the other provisions of the Plan, as shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  A Stock Appreciation Right may relate to a particular Stock Option and may be granted simultaneously with or subsequent to the Stock Option to which it relates.  Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to the same restrictions and conditions as Stock Options under subsections 5.6, 5.7 and 5.8 of the Plan.  To the extent granted in tandem with a Stock Option, the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right shall, in exchange for the right to exercise a related Stock Option, entitle a Participant to an amount equal to the appreciation in value of the shares covered by the related Stock Option surrendered.  Such appreciation in value shall 
be 

9

equal to the excess of the Market Value of such shares at the time of the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right over the option price of such shares. 

           6.2           Exercise ;  Payment .  To the extent granted in tandem with a Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised only when a related Stock Option could be exercised and only when the Market Value of the stock subject to the Stock Option exceeds the exercise price of the Stock Option.  The Committee shall have discretion to determine the form of payment made upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, which may take the form of shares of Common Stock. 

SECTION   7   

  Stock   Awards  

           7.1           Grant .  A Participant may be granted one or more Stock Awards under the Plan.  Stock Awards shall be subject to such terms and conditions, consistent with the other provisions of the Plan, as may be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. 

           7.2           Rights   as   a   Shareholder .  A Participant shall have all voting, dividend, liquidation and other rights with respect to shares of Common Stock issued to the Participant as a Stock Award under this Section 7 upon the Participant becoming the holder of record of the Common Stock granted pursuant to such Stock Awards;  provided , that the Committee may impose such restrictions on the assignment or transfer of Common Stock awarded pursuant to a Stock Award as it deems appropriate and may require the Participant to continue in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary for a specified period of time after the award. 

SECTION   8   

  Change   in   Control  

                     Without in any way limiting the Committee's discretion, the Committee may include in any Incentive Award provisions for acceleration of any vesting or other similar requirements or for the elimination of any restrictions upon Incentive Awards upon a Change in Control of the Company.  The Committee also may include provisions for Participants to receive cash in lieu of outstanding Stock Options upon a Change in Control of the Company. 

SECTION   9   

  General   Provisions  

           9.1           No   Rights   to   Awards .  No Participant or other person shall have any claim to be granted any Incentive Award under the Plan and there is no obligation of uniformity of treatment of Participants or holders or beneficiaries of Incentive Awards under the Plan.  The terms and 

10

conditions of Incentive Awards of the same type and the determination of the Committee to grant a waiver or modification of any Incentive Award and the terms and conditions thereof need not be the same with respect to each Participant or among awards to the same Participant. 

           9.2           Withholding .  The Company or a Subsidiary shall be entitled to (a) withhold and deduct from future wages of a Participant (or from other amounts that may be due and owing to a Participant from the Company or a Subsidiary), or make other arrangements for the collection of, all amounts necessary to satisfy any and all federal, state and local withholding and employment-related tax requirements attributable to an Incentive Award or any action related to an Incentive Award, including, without limitation, the grant, exercise or vesting of, or payment of dividends with respect to, an Incentive Award or a disqualifying disposition of Common Stock received upon exercise of an incentive stock option; or (b) require a Participant promptly to remit the amount of such withholding to the Company before taking any action with respect to an Incentive Award.  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, withholding may be satisfied by
 withholding Common Stock to be received upon exercise or by delivery to the Company of previously owned Common Stock.  The Company may establish such rules and procedures concerning timing of any withholding election as it deems appropriate. 

           9.3           Compliance   With   Laws ;  Listing   and   Registration   of   Shares .  All Incentive Awards granted under the Plan (and all issuances of Common Stock or other securities under the Plan) shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and to the requirement that if at any time the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of the shares covered thereby upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the grant of such Incentive Award or the issue or purchase of shares thereunder, such Incentive Award may not be exercised in whole or in part, or the restrictions on such Incentive Award shall not lapse, unless and until such listing, registration, qualification, consent or a
pproval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee. 

           9.4           No   Limit   on   Other   Compensation   Arrangements .  Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company or any Subsidiary from adopting or continuing in effect other or additional compensation arrangements, including the grant of stock options and other stock-based awards and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases. 

           9.5           No   Right   to   Employment .  The grant of an Incentive Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary.  The Company or any Subsidiary may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment, free from any liability or any claim under the Plan, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in any written agreement with a Participant. 

           9.6           Suspension   of   Rights   under   Incentive   Awards .  The Company, by written notice to a Participant, may suspend a Participant's and any transferee's rights under any Incentive Award for a period not to exceed 30 days while the termination for cause of that Participant's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries is under consideration. 

11

9.7           Governing   Law .  The validity, construction and effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Michigan and applicable federal law. 

           9.8           Severability .  If any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of the Plan and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included. 

           9.9           Change   of   Name .  The Plan shall be automatically amended to reflect any change in the name of the Company. 

SECTION   10   

  Termination   and   Amendment  

                     The Board may terminate the Plan at any time, or may from time to time amend the Plan as it deems proper and in the best interests of the Company, provided that no such amendment may impair any outstanding Incentive Award without the consent of the Participant, except according to the terms of the Plan or the Incentive Award.  No termination, amendment or modification of the Plan shall become effective with respect to any Incentive Award previously granted under the Plan without the prior written consent of the Participant holding such Incentive Award unless such amendment or modification operates solely to the benefit of the Participant. 

SECTION   11   

  Effective   Date   and   Duration   of   the   Plan  

                     This Plan shall take effect April 27, 2000, subject to approval by the shareholders.  No Incentive Award shall be granted under the Plan after April 26, 2010. 

12

</EX-10.2>

<EX-13>
 4
 choiceex13_033106.htm
 CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES EXHIBIT 13 TO FORM 10-K

ChoiceOne Exhibit 13 to Form 10-K - 03/31/06 

EXHIBIT 13  

C HOICEONE  F INANCIAL  S ERVICES,  I NC.    

2005   

   A NNUAL  R EPORT TO  S HAREHOLDERS    

C HOICEONE  F INANCIAL  S ERVICES,  I NC.   

 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders 

Contents   

To Our Shareholders 
 
 1 

About ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc 
 
 1 

Common Stock Information 
 
 2 

Selected Financial Data 
 
 3 

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
 
 4 

Change in Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 
 14 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 
 15 

Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 16 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
 20 

Corporate and Shareholder Information 
 
 37 

Directors and Officers 
 
 38 

T O  O UR  S HAREHOLDERS   

This 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders contains our audited financial statements, detailed financial review and all of the information that regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") require to be presented in annual reports to shareholders. For legal purposes, this is the ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders. Although attached to our proxy statement, this report is not part of our proxy statement, is not considered to be soliciting material and is not considered to be filed with the SEC except to the extent that it is expressly incorporated by reference in a document filed with the SEC. Shareholders who would like to receive even more detailed information than that contained in this 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders are invited to request our Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, including the financial statements and financial statement schedules, will be provided to any shareholder, without charge, upon written request to Mr. Thomas Lampen, Treasurer, ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., 109 East Division Street, Sparta, Michigan 49345.  

A BOUT  C HOICEONE  F INANCIAL  S ERVICES,  I NC.   

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. is a single-bank holding company. Its principal banking subsidiary, ChoiceOne Bank (Sparta, Michigan), primarily serves communities in portions of Kent, Muskegon, Newaygo, and Ottawa counties in Michigan where the Bank's offices are located and the areas immediately surrounding those communities. Currently the Bank serves those markets through five full-service offices. ChoiceOne Insurance Agencies, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of ChoiceOne Bank and sells insurance and investment products. ChoiceOne Mortgage Company of Michigan, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ChoiceOne Bank, was formed on January 1, 2002 and is engaged in mortgage lending. 

 ChoiceOne's business is primarily concentrated in a single industry segment - banking. ChoiceOne Bank is a full-service banking institution that offers a variety of deposit, payment, credit and other financial services to all types of customers. These services include time, savings, and demand deposits, safe deposit services, and automated transaction machine services. Loans, both commercial and consumer, are extended primarily on a secured basis to corporations, partnerships and individuals. Commercial lending covers such categories as business, industry, agricultural, construction, inventory and real estate. ChoiceOne Bank's consumer loan department and ChoiceOne Mortgage Company of Michigan make direct loans to consumers and purchasers of residential property. 

 The principal source of revenue for ChoiceOne is interest and fees on loans. On a consolidated basis, interest and fees from loans accounted for 73%, 71%, and 72% of total revenues in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Interest from securities accounted for 11%, 11%, and 8% of total revenues in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. 

1

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 C OMMON  S TOCK  I NFORMATION   

Several brokers trade ChoiceOne's common shares in the over-the-counter bulletin board market. There is no well-established public trading market for the shares and trading activity is infrequent. ChoiceOne's trading volume and recent share price information can be viewed under the symbol ' COFS.OB ' on certain financial websites. 

 The range of high and low bid prices for shares of common stock for each quarterly period during the past two years is as follows: 

The prices listed above are over-the-counter market quotations reported to ChoiceOne by its market makers listed in this annual report. The over-the-counter market quotations reflect inter-dealer prices without retail markup, markdown or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. 

 As of February 15, 2006, there were 1,651,528 shares of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. common stock issued and outstanding. As of February 28, 2006, there were 604 holders of record of shares of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. common stock. 

 The following table summarizes cash dividends declared per share of common stock during 2005 and 2004: 

ChoiceOne's principal source of funds to pay cash dividends is the earnings and dividends paid by ChoiceOne Bank. ChoiceOne Bank is restricted in its ability to pay cash dividends under current regulations (see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Based on information presently available, management expects ChoiceOne to declare and pay regular quarterly cash dividends in 2006. 

2

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 S ELECTED  F INANCIAL  D ATA   

  (Dollars in thousands)  

*  Per share amounts are retroactively adjusted for the effect of stock dividends and stock splits. 

3

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 M ANAGEMENT'S  D ISCUSSION AND  A NALYSIS OF  F INANCIAL  C ONDITION AND  R ESULTS OF  O PERATIONS   

The following discussion is designed to provide a review of the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. ("ChoiceOne" or the "Company"), and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, ChoiceOne Bank (the "Bank"), ChoiceOne Insurance Agencies, Inc. (the "Insurance Agency"), and ChoiceOne Mortgage Company of Michigan (the "Mortgage Company"). This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes.  

  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

 This discussion and other sections of this annual report contain forward-looking statements that are based on management's beliefs, assumptions, current expectations, estimates and projections about the financial services industry, the economy, and ChoiceOne itself. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "is likely," "plans," "predicts," "projects," "may," "could," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions ("risk factors") that are difficult to predict with regard to timing, extent, likelihood, and degree of occurrence. Therefore, actual results and outcomes may materially differ from what may be expressed, implied or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. Furthermore, ChoiceOne undertakes no obligation to update, amend, or clarify forward-looking statements, whether as a
 result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 

 Risk factors include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates and interest rate relationships; demand for products and services; the degree of competition by traditional and non-traditional competitors; changes in banking laws and regulations; changes in tax laws; changes in prices, levies, and assessments; the impact of technological advances; governmental and regulatory policy changes; the outcomes of pending and future litigation and contingencies; trends in customer behavior as well as their ability to repay loans; changes in the local and national economies; and various other local and global uncertainties such as acts of terrorism and military actions. These are representative of the risk factors that could cause a difference between an ultimate actual outcome and a preceding forward-looking statement. 

  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

 The purpose of this section of the annual report is to provide a narrative discussion about the Company's financial condition and results of operations during 2005. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations as well as disclosures found elsewhere in the annual report are based upon the Company's consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change in the near term relate to the determination of the allowance for loan losses and loan servicing rights. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  

  Allowance for Loan Losses  
The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate by management to absorb probable incurred losses inherent in the consolidated loan portfolio. Management's evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance is an estimate based on reviews of individual loans, assessments of the impact of current and anticipated economic conditions on the portfolio and historical loss experience of seasoned loan portfolios. See Notes 1 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

 Management believes the accounting estimate related to the allowance for loan losses is a "critical accounting estimate" because (1) the estimate is highly susceptible to change from period to period because of assumptions concerning the changes in the types and volumes of the portfolios and anticipated economic conditions and (2) the impact of recognizing an impairment or loan loss could have a material effect on the Company's assets reported on the balance sheet as well as its net income. 

  Loan Servicing Rights  
Loan servicing rights represent the estimated value of servicing loans that are sold with servicing retained by the Company. Servicing rights are expensed in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing revenues. Management's accounting treatment of loan servicing rights is estimated based on current prepayment speeds that are typically market driven. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding activity within loan servicing rights.  

 Management believes the accounting estimate related to loan servicing rights is a "critical accounting estimate" because (1) the estimate is highly susceptible to change from period to period because of significant changes within long term interest rates affecting the prepayment speeds for current loans being serviced and (2) the impact of recognizing an impairment loss could have a material 

4

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 M ANAGEMENT'S  D ISCUSSION AND  A NALYSIS OF  F INANCIAL  C ONDITION AND  R ESULTS OF  O PERATIONS   

effect on the Company's net income. Management has obtained a third-party valuation of its loan servicing rights to corroborate its current carrying value at the end of each reporting period. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

  Summary  
 (Dollars in thousands) 

Net income for 2005 was $2,166,000, which represented a $312,000 or 17% increase from 2004. The increase in net income over 2005 was primarily due to increased net interest income. Net interest income increased in 2005 compared to 2004 due to growth in the Bank's earning assets. A slightly higher provision to the allowance for loan losses was necessary due to growth in the loan portfolio. Noninterest expense was slightly lower in 2005 compared to 2004 largely because of an adjustment in the computation of the Bank's single business tax. 

 Net income for 2004 was $1,854,000, which represented a $247,000 or 12% decrease from 2003. The decrease in net income was due to reduced net interest income, a higher provision for loan losses, and reduced noninterest income, offset by decreased noninterest expense. Lower noninterest income was the primary reason for the decrease in net income in 2004. Gains on sales of loans in 2004 decreased $502,000 or 62% from 2003. The earning assets growth during 2004 could not offset the impact of lower rates on new and existing loans and securities. A slightly higher loan loss provision was based upon a small increase in net charge-offs for 2004 compared to 2003. Noninterest expense declined in 2004 from 2003 due to lower payroll costs and lower occupancy expenses. Also, contributing to the lower level of expense in 2004 was $156,000 of prepayment penalties incurred in 2003 that were related to the early payoff of advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank.  

 Return on average assets was 0.91% for 2005, compared to 0.83% for 2004, and 1.01% for 2003. Return on average shareholders' equity was 10.15% for 2005, compared to 8.93% for 2004, and 10.48% for 2003. 

  Dividends  
Cash dividends of $1,105,000 or $0.67 per common share were declared in 2005, compared to $1,065,000 or $0.65 per common share in 2004, and $1,059,000 or $0.65 per common share in 2003. The dividend yield on ChoiceOne's common stock was 3.41% in 2005, compared to 3.44% in 2004, and 4.49% in 2003. The cash dividend payout percentage was 51% in 2005, compared to 57% in 2004, and 50% in 2003.  

 ChoiceOne's Board of Directors declared a 5% stock dividend payable on common stock in April 2005. The dividend was paid in May 2005 and per share data for all periods presented has been adjusted for this stock dividend. 

 ChoiceOne's principal source of funds to pay cash dividends is the earnings of the Bank. The availability of these earnings is dependent upon the capital needs, regulatory constraints and other factors involving the Bank. Regulatory constraints include the maintenance of minimum capital ratios and limits based on net income and retained earnings of the Bank for the past three years. ChoiceOne expects to pay quarterly cash dividends in 2006 to shareholders based on the actual earnings of the Bank. 

5

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 M ANAGEMENT'S  D ISCUSSION AND  A NALYSIS OF  F INANCIAL  C ONDITION AND  R ESULTS OF  O PERATIONS   

Table 1 - Average Balances and Tax-Equivalent Interest Rates  

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Net Interest Income  
As shown in Tables 1 and 2, tax-equivalent net interest income increased $433,000 in 2005 compared to the same period in 2004. This is primarily because earning assets have grown 6% compared to 2004. The increase in interest rates has had a slightly negative impact on the net change in tax-equivalent net interest income. Increased interest expense has more than offset the increase in tax-equivalent interest income.  

6

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 M ANAGEMENT'S  D ISCUSSION AND  A NALYSIS OF  F INANCIAL  C ONDITION AND  R ESULTS OF  O PERATIONS   

The average balance of loans increased over $10 million in 2005 compared to 2004. In addition, upward repricing of existing loans has helped interest income on loans to increase $1,469,000 for 2005 compared to 2004. The average balance of tax exempt securities grew $3.0 million in 2005, offset by decreased yields, which increased interest income $150,000 over 2004.  

 Growth of $3.4 million in the average balance of interest-bearing demand deposits coupled with higher rates paid increased interest expense by $381,000 in 2005. Growth of $11.4 million in the average balance of certificates of deposit, in addition to higher rates paid on these accounts, increased interest expense $672,000 in 2005 versus 2004. Significant repricing upward of advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank was partially offset by a drop of $3.9 million in the average balance of advances outstanding, thereby causing interest expense to increase $60,000. Higher rates for other interest-bearing liabilities (federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements) coupled with a $0.8 million increase in the average balance outstanding caused interest expense to increase $101,000 in 2005 compared to 2004.  

 Net interest income spread was 3.38% (shown in Table 1) for 2005, compared to 3.46% in 2004. This was a slight decrease from the net interest income spread of 3.44% for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. The average yield received on interest-earning assets in 2005 rose 42 basis points to 6.09% while the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities in 2005 rose 50 basis points to 2.71%.  

  Table 2 - Changes in Tax-Equivalent Net Interest Income  

 (Dollars in thousands) 

(1)  
 
  The volume variance is computed as the change in volume (average balance) multiplied by the previous year's interest rate. The rate variance is computed as the change in interest rate multiplied by the previous year's volume (average balance). The change in interest due to both volume and rate has been allocated to the volume and rate changes in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.  

(2)  
 
  Interest on nontaxable securities and loans has been adjusted to a fully tax-equivalent basis using an incremental tax rate of 34% for the years presented.  

Tax equivalent net interest income decreased $35,000 in 2004 compared to 2003. This was primarily because the Bank's interest-earning assets repriced downward faster than the Bank's interest-bearing liabilities. The impact of lower rates more than offset the earning asset growth of $15.4 million. A change in the funding mix to more interest-bearing demand deposits helped reduce interest expense in 2004, but not enough to offset the lower interest income compared to 2003.  

 Net interest income spread was 3.46% (shown in Table 1) for 2004, compared to 3.71% in 2003. The average yield received on interest-earning assets in 2004 fell 74 basis points to 5.67% while the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities in 2004 dropped 49 basis points to 2.21%.  

7

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 M ANAGEMENT'S  D ISCUSSION AND  A NALYSIS OF  F INANCIAL  C ONDITION AND  R ESULTS OF  O PERATIONS   

Management anticipates that net interest income in 2006 will depend upon the Bank's ability to grow loans with a favorable mix of deposits and borrowings. Deposit rates will be dictated by local market conditions and management intends to aggressively pursue growth of core deposits in 2006 to maintain a low cost of funds. Management believes the Alpine, Cedar Springs, and Rockford offices are positioned well to attract these types of deposits. Brokered certificates of deposit and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank will continue to be used if core deposit growth is insufficient to fund earning asset growth.  

  Allowance and Provision For Loan Losses  
Information regarding the allowance and provision for loan losses can be found in Table 3 and in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As indicated in Table 3, the provision for loan losses was $30,000 higher in 2005 than in 2004. Management increased the provision due to more loan growth in 2005 than in 2004 and higher net charge-offs of residential real estate and consumer loans in 2005 compared to 2004.  

 As shown in Table 3, commercial loan net charge-offs dropped $647,000 in 2005 versus 2004; however, real estate mortgage net charge-offs increased $128,000, and consumer loan net charge-offs increased $90,000 from 2004. Commercial loan net charge-offs in 2004 included five significant substandard loan charge-offs totaling $362,000 that were charged off due to insolvency of the borrowers. These loans were 53% reserved at the end of 2003. Real estate mortgage net charge-offs rose in 2005 due to increased losses from several manufactured home construction loans. Consumer loan charge-offs were higher in 2005 due to slowing recoveries as compared to 2004. The ratio of net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans decreased significantly from 0.41% in 2004 to 0.15% in 2005. The allowance as a percentage of total loans is higher (1.06%) at the end of 2005, compared to the end of 2004 (1.00%) primarily due to specific loss allocations. At end of 2005, the Bank had $465,000 specifically reserved for problem loa
ns, while only $105,000 was specifically reserved for at the end of 2004. Management believes the reserves allocated to problem loans at the end of 2005 are reasonable based on circumstances surrounding each particular borrower.  

  Table 3 - Provision and Allowance For Loan Losses  

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Based on the current state of the economy and a recent review of the loan portfolio, management believes that the allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 2005, is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses. As charge-offs, changes in the level of nonperforming loans, and changes within the composition of the loan portfolio occur, the provision and allowance for loan losses will be reviewed by the Bank's management and adjusted as necessary. 

  Noninterest Income  
Total noninterest income increased $10,000 or less than 1% in 2005 compared to 2004. Service charges on deposit accounts were up due to higher returned check charges and debit card fee income. Insurance and investment commissions were lower due to reduced 

8

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 M ANAGEMENT'S  D ISCUSSION AND  A NALYSIS OF  F INANCIAL  C ONDITION AND  R ESULTS OF  O PERATIONS   

annuity sales and lower property and casualty commissions. Gains on the sale of loans were down due to reduced pricing obtained on loans sold to secondary market investors. Gains on the sale of securities were down due to more losses realized in 2005. The Bank swapped some low yielding securities for higher yielding securities. Other noninterest income includes $88,000 in earnings on bank-owned life insurance, which resulted from the purchase of $2 million of policies in February 2005.  

 Noninterest income decreased $539,000 or 17% in 2004, compared to 2003. Gains received from the sale of loans decreased $502,000 or 62% in 2004 due to a slowdown in mortgage refinancing activity throughout the year. In 2004, the Mortgage Company sold $17 million of loans to the secondary market versus $37 million during 2003. Insurance and investment commissions dipped slightly in 2004 compared to 2003, as 2003 included a few months of commissions from the Grand Rapids division of the Insurance Agency. The Insurance Agency's book of commissions for its Grand Rapids division was sold in the first quarter of 2003. Servicing fee income is reported net of servicing right amortization expense and resulted in a negative $4,000 in 2003 due to borrowers paying off their serviced mortgages faster than management's estimate of the loan servicing term.  

 Management estimates that noninterest income in 2006 will depend upon the growth of deposit accounts and cross sales of insurance and investment products. 

  Noninterest Expense  
Total noninterest expense decreased $44,000 or nearly 1% in 2005 compared to 2004. Salaries and benefits were up slightly in 2005 due to the addition of personnel for the Rockford and Alpine Offices and higher employee bonuses. Occupancy expense was higher in 2005 due to a full year of operations for the Bank's Rockford Office (opened in September 2004). Professional fees were lower in 2005 due to fewer legal fees and reduced services from a third party marketing agency. Data processing expense was higher due to growth in software maintenance, ATM network processing and core bank charges. Other noninterest expense decreased $257,000 in 2005 primarily due to an adjustment in the computation of state single business taxes for 2002, 2003, and 2004 recorded in 2005. The adjustment to the Bank's single business taxes is a non-recurring benefit to other expense. Fewer bad checks charged off in 2005 also helped reduce other noninterest expense. In 2004, an altered foreign check for $75,000 was written off as uncoll
ectible. The check was disbursed before the Bank was notified it was a fraudulent item. 

 Noninterest expense decreased $440,000 or 6% in 2004, compared to 2003. Salaries and benefits decreased $189,000 in 2004 due to significantly less commissions paid to mortgage producers. ChoiceOne reduced its payroll by more than 3 full-time equivalent employees even though the Bank opened its Rockford Office with more than 4 full-time equivalent employees. Higher employee health insurance costs offset the reduced salaries expense in 2004. Occupancy expense was lower in 2004, as the Bank sold its Sparta Appletree Office in September 2004 and closed its Sparta Great Day Office in September 2003. The Bank's Rockford Office was opened in September 2004. The Bank sold its Sparta Appletree Office and subsequently leased back 50% of the building from the new owner. The Bank's Operations Department was moved in 2004 from the Sparta Appletree Office to the Sparta Main Office to utilize available office space and reduce overall occupancy costs. Professional fees decreased in 2004 from 2003 due to much lower legal 
fees offset by higher audit and consulting fees. In 2003, ChoiceOne absorbed $156,000 in prepayment penalties as a result of paying off $3 million of high-rate advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank. This was done to reduce the Bank's cost of funds in 2004 and 2005. Other noninterest expense was slightly higher in 2004 due to increased bad check charge-offs offset by lower expenses related to foreclosed real estate. 

 Management anticipates that noninterest expenses will rise in 2006 due to higher single business taxes, growing employee benefit costs, and rising data processing charges. 

FINANCIAL CONDITION  

  Securities  
The securities portfolio decreased approximately $0.7 million or 2% from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005. A mix of government agency, municipal, and mortgage-backed securities totaling $10 million were purchased to maintain the asset size of the Bank and provide liquidity for future loan growth. Approximately $4.3 million in various securities were called in 2005. Payments from mortgage-backed securities totaled $1.6 million in 2005. Various securities totaling $3.7 million were sold during 2005 for net losses totaling $28,000. The Bank's Investment Committee continues to monitor the portfolio and purchase securities when deemed prudent. Certain securities are sold under agreements to repurchase and management plans to continue this practice as a low-cost source of funding. Securities also are pledged as collateral for borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank. In addition, they serve as a source of liquidity for deposit needs. 

9

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 M ANAGEMENT'S  D ISCUSSION AND  A NALYSIS OF  F INANCIAL  C ONDITION AND  R ESULTS OF  O PERATIONS   

Loans  
The loan portfolio (excluding loans held for sale) increased approximately $12.3 million or 7% from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005. Commercial loans increased $4.9 million due to increased demand from borrowers. Real estate loans increased $7.3 million through growth in commercial and residential real estate financing. In 2005, the Mortgage Company originated approximately $34 million of residential mortgage loans and sold $19 million (56%) to secondary market investors. In 2004, the Mortgage Company originated approximately $39 million of residential mortgage loans and sold $12 million (31%) to secondary market investors. An additional $5 million of seasoned hybrid mortgage loans were sold in 2004 to reduce long-term interest rate risk. Consumer loans dropped $1.4 million during 2005 due to fewer originations of automobile, recreational vehicle, and personal loans. Management decided in the first quarter of 2005 to discontinue the origination of indirect consumer loans, except for one local automobi
le dealership. Indirect consumer loans totaled approximately $4.2 million at December 31, 2005, compared to $5.9 million at December 31, 2004. 

 Management anticipates demand for commercial loans will remain steady in 2006 due to increased calling efforts and relationships cultivated with ChoiceOne's business customers. Rising interest rates may stall demand for consumer and residential real estate loans in 2006.  

 Information regarding impaired loans can be found in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. In addition to its review of the loan portfolio for impaired loans, management also monitors various nonperforming loans. Nonperforming loans are comprised of (1) loans accounted for on a nonaccrual basis; (2) loans, not included in nonaccrual loans, which are contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest or principal payments; and (3) loans, not included in nonaccrual or past due 90 days or more, which are considered troubled debt restructurings.  

 The balances of these nonperforming loans as of December 31 were as follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

At December 31, 2005, nonaccrual loans included $677,000 in commercial loans, $206,000 in residential mortgages, and $51,000 in consumer loans. At December 31, 2004, nonaccrual loans included $389,000 in commercial loans, $363,000 in residential mortgages, and $43,000 in consumer loans. Management also maintains a list of loans that are not classified as nonperforming loans but where some concern exists as to the borrowers' abilities to comply with the original loan terms. These loans totaled $8.5 million as of December 31, 2005, compared to $6.3 million as of December 31, 2004. Four large commercial borrowers with loans totaling $2.1 million were placed on the list in 2005 due to recent operating losses and other special circumstances causing concern to the Bank's management. 

  Deposits and Other Funding Sources  
Total deposits increased $15.0 million or 9% from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005. Certificates of deposit were up $16.9 million, while checking, savings and money market accounts fell $1.9 million during the year. With the rise in interest rates, Bank customers flocked to certificates of deposit over lower yielding transaction accounts. Local certificates of deposit accounted for 84% of the growth over 2004, while brokered certificates of deposit rose 16%.  

 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase increased $0.8 million during 2005. Federal funds purchased at the end of 2005 increased $3.1 million from year-end 2004. Advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") decreased $3.5 million in 2005. Of these advances, 67% have fixed rates with maturities ranging from January 2006 to December 2008, and 33% carry a floating rate indexed to the federal funds rate. Specific residential real estate mortgages and securities were pledged as collateral against these advances at the end of 2005.  

 In 2006, management plans to emphasize growth of its noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing checking accounts for commercial, municipal, and retail customers. Management also believes the Alpine, Cedar Springs and Rockford Offices are in growing markets and are poised to grow deposits in 2006. If local deposit growth is insufficient to support asset growth during 2006, management believes advances from the FHLB and brokered certificates of deposit can address corresponding funding needs. 

10

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 M ANAGEMENT'S  D ISCUSSION AND  A NALYSIS OF  F INANCIAL  C ONDITION AND  R ESULTS OF  O PERATIONS   

Shareholders' Equity  
Total shareholders' equity increased $0.6 million or 3% from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005. Equity growth resulted from current year earnings and proceeds from the sale of ChoiceOne's stock, offset by cash dividends paid to shareholders, shares repurchased, and a drop in accumulated other comprehensive income. The net dollar difference between the issuance and repurchase of common stock was a negative $15,000 in 2005 compared to a positive $142,000 in 2004. ChoiceOne repurchased 15,412 shares of its common stock in 2005 compared to 6,053 shares in 2004. Management anticipates it will continue to repurchase shares of its common stock in 2006 and retire them.  

 Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements presents regulatory capital information at the end of 2005 and 2004. ChoiceOne's capital ratios decreased slightly from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005 due to assets growing at a faster rate than shareholders' equity. If opportunities for prudent asset growth present themselves in 2006, management may grow assets to a greater extent than shareholders' equity. This may cause capital to decrease as a percentage of assets. However, management and its Board of Directors do not desire to decrease capital below those levels necessary to be considered "well capitalized." 

  Table 4 - Contractual Obligations  

 The following table discloses information regarding the maturity of ChoiceOne's contractual obligations at December 31, 2005: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Liquidity and Interest Rate Risk  
ChoiceOne's primary market risk exposure occurs in the form of interest rate risk. Liquidity risk also can have an impact but to a lesser extent. ChoiceOne's business is transacted in U.S. dollars with no foreign exchange risk exposure. Agricultural loans comprise a small portion of ChoiceOne's total assets. Management believes that ChoiceOne's exposure to changes in commodity prices is insignificant. 

 Liquidity risk deals with ChoiceOne's ability to meet its cash flow requirements. These requirements include depositors desiring to withdraw funds and borrowers seeking credit. Relatively short-term liquid funds exist in the form of lines of credit to purchase federal funds at five of the Bank's correspondent banks. As of December 31, 2005, the amount of federal funds available for purchase from the Bank's correspondent banks totaled $18.9 million. ChoiceOne purchased $4.4 million of federal funds at the end of 2005. The Bank also has a line of credit secured by ChoiceOne's commercial loans with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago for $66 million, which is designated for nonrecurring short-term liquidity needs. Longer-term liquidity needs may be met through local deposit growth, maturities of securities, normal loan repayments, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank, brokered time deposits, and income retention. Approximately $13.2 million of borrowing capacity was available from the Federal Home Loan B
ank based on the Mortgage Company's residential mortgage loans and the Bank's investment securities pledged as collateral at year-end 2005. The acquisition of brokered time deposits is not limited as long as the Bank's capital to assets percentage is considered to be "well capitalized." 

 Interest rate risk is related to liquidity because each is affected by maturing assets and sources of funds. ChoiceOne's Asset/Liability Management Committee (the "ALCO") attempts to stabilize the interest rate spread and avoid possible adverse effects when unusual or rapid changes in interest rates occur. The ALCO uses a simulation model to measure its interest rate risk. The model incorporates changes in interest rates on rate-sensitive assets and liabilities. The degree of rate sensitivity is affected by prepayment assumptions that exist in the assets and liabilities. One method the ALCO uses of measuring interest rate sensitivity is the ratio of rate-sensitive assets to rate-sensitive liabilities. An asset or liability is considered to be rate-sensitive if it matures or otherwise reprices within a given time frame. 

11

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 M ANAGEMENT'S  D ISCUSSION AND  A NALYSIS OF  F INANCIAL  C ONDITION AND  R ESULTS OF  O PERATIONS   

Table 5 documents the maturity or repricing schedule for ChoiceOne's rate-sensitive assets and liabilities for selected time periods. 

  Table 5 - Maturities and Repricing Schedule  

 (Dollars in thousands) 

One method the ALCO uses to measure interest rate sensitivity is the one-year repricing gap. ChoiceOne's ratio of rate-sensitive assets to rate-sensitive liabilities that matured or repriced within a one-year time frame was 72% at December 31, 2005, compared to 63% at December 31, 2004. The above table places the entire balance of interest-bearing demand deposits, savings deposits, and overnight repurchase agreements in the shortest repricing term. Although these three categories have the ability to reprice immediately, management has some control over the actual timing or extent of the changes in interest rates on these deposits. Growth in the Bank's earning assets has made ChoiceOne less liability sensitive at year-end 2005 compared to year-end 2004. The ALCO plans to continue to monitor the ratio of rate-sensitive assets to rate-sensitive liabilities on a quarterly basis in 2006. As interest rates change during 2006, the ALCO will attempt to match its maturing assets with corresponding liabilities to m
aximize ChoiceOne's net interest income. 

 Another method the ALCO uses to monitor its interest rate sensitivity is to subject rate-sensitive assets and liabilities to interest rate shocks. At December 31, 2005, management used a simulation model to subject its assets and liabilities to an immediate 300 basis point increase and an immediate 300 basis point decrease in interest rates. The maturities of loans and mortgage-backed securities were affected by certain prepayment assumptions. Maturities for interest-bearing core deposits were based on an estimate of the period over which they would be outstanding. The maturities of advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank were based on their contractual maturity dates. In the case of variable rate assets and liabilities, repricing dates were used to determine their values. The simulation model measures the effect of immediate interest rate changes on both net income and shareholders' equity. ChoiceOne's Interest Rate Risk Policy states that the changes in interest rates cannot cause net income to decreas
e more than 15% and the value of shareholders' equity to decrease more than 15%. 

12

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 M ANAGEMENT'S  D ISCUSSION AND  A NALYSIS OF  F INANCIAL  C ONDITION AND  R ESULTS OF  O PERATIONS   

Table 6 provides an illustration of hypothetical interest rate changes as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively: 

  Table 6 - Sensitivity to Changes in Interest Rates  

During 2005, the ALCO expanded its rate shock scenarios from an immediate 200 basis point rise and decline shock to an immediate 300 basis point rise and decline in interest rates. As of December 31, 2005, the Bank is within its guidelines for immediate shocks up and down for both net income and the market value of shareholder's equity. Also, during 2005 the ALCO changed certain assumptions within its asset/liability model to more accurately reflect historical trends and actual experience. The effect of these changes combined with management's desire to limit the immediate repricing of its interest-bearing demand and savings deposits illustrates that ChoiceOne's net income and market value of equity may be negatively impacted in both a rising rate and falling rate environment.  

 The impact of the rate shock at December 31, 2004 on net income for rates falling 200 basis points exceeded the ALCO's policy limit; however, management believed the likelihood of such an occurrence was highly remote given that the ALCO predicted rates would most likely rise during 2005. 

 The ALCO plans to continue to monitor the effect of changes in interest rates on both net income and shareholders' equity and will make changes in the duration of its rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities where necessary. 

13

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 C HANGE IN  I NDEPENDENT  R EGISTERED  P UBLIC  A CCOUNTING  F IRM   

On November 23, 2005, ChoiceOne engaged Plante   Moran, PLLC ("Plante Moran") as its independent registered public accounting firm, to replace its prior accounting firm, Crowe Chizek and Company LLC ("Crowe"), effective as of the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2006. The change in ChoiceOne's certifying independent registered public accounting firm was based on the results of a competitive bidding process. The engagement of Plante Moran and the dismissal of Crowe was recommended and approved by the Audit Committee of ChoiceOne's Board of Directors. 

 Crowe's reports on ChoiceOne's financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 did not contain any adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion and were not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles. 

 During the two fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and through the date of this report, there were no "disagreements" (as that term is defined in Item 304(a)(1)(iv) of Regulation S-K issued under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and its related instructions) between ChoiceOne and Crowe on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure or auditing scope or procedure which, if not resolved to the satisfaction of Crowe, would have caused Crowe to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement in connection with its reports. 

 During the two fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and through the date of this report, there were no "reportable events" (as that term is defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K issued under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and its related instructions) between ChoiceOne and Crowe. 

 During the two fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and through the date of this report, ChoiceOne has not consulted with Plante Moran regarding the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction (either completed or proposed), the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on ChoiceOne's financial statements, or any matter that was the subject of a disagreement or reportable event. 

14

Crowe Chizek and Company LLC  
          Member Horwath International 

R EPORT OF  I NDEPENDENT  R EGISTERED  P UBLIC  A CCOUNTING  F IRM   

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors 
of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., Sparta, Michigan 

 We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Corporation's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 

 We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

 In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 

Crowe Chizek and Company LLC  

Grand Rapids, Michigan 
March 7, 2006 

15

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 C ONSOLIDATED  B ALANCE  S HEETS   

(Dollars in thousands) 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

16

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 C ONSOLIDATED  S TATEMENTS OF  I NCOME   

  (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

17

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 C ONSOLIDATED  S TATEMENTS OF  C HANGES IN  S HAREHOLDERS'  E QUITY   

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

18

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 C ONSOLIDATED  S TATEMENTS OF  C ASH  F LOWS   

(Dollars in thousands) 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

19

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

  Principles of Consolidation  
The consolidated financial statements include ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiary, ChoiceOne Bank, and ChoiceOne Bank's wholly-owned subsidiaries, ChoiceOne Mortgage Company of Michigan, and ChoiceOne Insurance Agencies, Inc., (together referred to as "ChoiceOne"). Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.  

  Nature of Operations  
ChoiceOne Bank (the "Bank") is a full-service community bank that offers commercial, consumer, and real estate loans as well as traditional demand, savings and time deposits to both commercial and consumer clients in portions of Kent, Muskegon, Newaygo, and Ottawa counties in Michigan. Substantially all loans are secured by specific items of collateral including business assets, consumer assets, and real estate. Commercial loans are expected to be repaid from the cash flows from operations of businesses. Real estate loans are secured by both residential and commercial real estate. 

 ChoiceOne Mortgage Company of Michigan (the "Mortgage Company") originates and sells a full line of conventional type mortgage loans for 1-4 family and multi-family residential real estate properties.  

 ChoiceOne Insurance Agencies, Inc. (the "Insurance Agency") is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank. The Insurance Agency sells a full line of insurance policies such as life, health, property and casualty for both commercial and consumer clients. The Insurance Agency also offers alternative investment products such as annuities and mutual funds through a registered broker. 

 Together, the Bank, the Mortgage Company, and the Insurance Agency, account for substantially all of ChoiceOne's assets, revenues and operating income. 

  Use of Estimates  
To prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, ChoiceOne's management makes estimates and assumptions based on available information. These estimates and assumptions affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and the disclosures provided. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates associated with the allowance for loan losses, loan servicing rights, and fair values of certain financial instruments are particularly susceptible to change. 

  Cash and Cash Equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents are defined to include cash on hand, demand deposits with other banks, and federal funds sold. Cash flows are reported on a net basis for customer loan and deposit transactions, deposits with other financial institutions, and short-term borrowings with terms of 90 days or less. 

  Securities  
Securities are classified as available for sale when they might be sold before maturity. Securities classified as available for sale are carried at fair value, with unrealized holding gains and losses reported separately in other comprehensive income or loss and shareholders' equity, net of tax effect. Other securities, such as Federal Reserve Bank stock or Federal Home Loan Bank stock, are carried at cost. 

 Interest income includes amortization of purchase premium or discount. Premiums and discounts on securities are amortized using the level-yield method without anticipating prepayments. Gains or losses on sales are recorded on the trade date based on the amortized cost of the security sold.  

 Declines in the fair value of securities below their cost that are other than temporary are reflected as realized losses. In estimating other-than-temporary losses, management considers: the length of time and extent that fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, and ChoiceOne's ability and intent to hold the security for a period sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. 

  Loans  
Loans that management has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff are reported at the principal balance outstanding, net of unearned interest, deferred loan fees and costs, and an allowance for loan losses. Loans held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or market, on an aggregate basis.  

20

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Interest income on loans is reported on the interest method and includes amortization of net deferred loan fees and costs over the estimated loan term. Interest on loans is accrued based upon the principal balance outstanding. The accrual of interest is discontinued at the time at which commercial loans are 90 days past due unless the loan is secured by sufficient collateral and in the process of collection. Interest on consumer or real estate secured loans is discontinued at the time at which the loan is 120 days past due unless the credit is secured by sufficient collateral and in the process of collection. Past due status is based on the contractual terms of the loan. In all cases, loans are placed into nonaccrual status or charged off at an earlier date if collection of principal or interest is considered doubtful. Interest accrued but not received is reversed against interest income when the loans are placed into nonaccrual status. Interest received on such loans is accounted for on the cash-basis me
thod until qualifying for return to accrual. Loans are returned to accrual basis when all the principal and interest amounts contractually due are brought current and future payment is reasonably assured. 

  Allowance for Loan Losses  
The allowance for loan losses is a valuation allowance for probable incurred credit losses. The allowance is increased by the provision for loan losses and decreased by loans charged off less any recoveries of charged off loans. Management estimates the allowance balance required based on past loan loss experience, the nature and volume of the portfolio, information about specific borrower situations and estimated collateral values, economic conditions, and other factors. Allocations of the allowance may be made for specific loans, but the entire allowance is available for any loan that, in management's judgment, should be charged off. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the collectibility of a loan balance is not possible. 

 The allowance consists of general and specific components. The general component covers non-classified loans and is based on historical loss experience adjusted for current factors. The specific component relates to loans that are individually classified as impaired or loans otherwise classified as substandard or doubtful.  

 A loan is impaired when full payment under the loan terms is not expected. Commercial loans are evaluated for impairment on an individual loan basis. If a loan is considered impaired, a portion of the allowance for loan losses is allocated to the loan so that it is reported, net, at the present value of estimated future cash flows using the loan's existing rate or at the fair value of collateral if repayment is expected solely from the collateral. Large groups of smaller balance homogeneous loans such as consumer and real estate mortgage loans are collectively evaluated for impairment, and accordingly, they are not separately identified for impairment disclosures. 

  Premises and Equipment  
Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Land is carried at cost. Land improvements are depreciated using the straight-line method with useful lives ranging from 7 to 15 years. Building and related components are depreciated using the straight-line method with useful lives ranging from 5 to 39 years. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life or the lease term. Furniture and equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method with useful lives ranging from 3 to 7 years. Fixed assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when events indicate their carrying amounts may not be recoverable from future undiscounted cash flows. If impaired, the assets are recorded at fair value. 

  Other Real Estate Owned  
Real estate properties acquired in the collection of a loan are initially recorded at fair value at acquisition establishing a new cost basis. Any reduction to fair value from the carrying value of the related loan is accounted for as a loan loss. After acquisition, a valuation allowance reduces the reported amount to the lower of the initial amount or fair value less costs to sell. Expenses to repair or maintain properties are included within other noninterest expenses. Gains and losses upon disposition and changes in the valuation allowance are reported net within other noninterest income. 

  Loan Servicing Rights  
Servicing rights represent the allocated value of servicing rights on loans sold with servicing retained. Servicing rights are expensed in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing revenues. Impairment is evaluated based on the fair value of the rights, using groupings of the underlying loans as to interest rates and then, secondarily, as to geographic and prepayment characteristics. Fair value is determined using prices for similar assets with similar characteristics when available or based upon discounted cashflows using market-based assumptions. Any impairment of a grouping is reported as a valuation allowance. 

  Long Term Assets  
Premises and equipment, other intangible assets and other long term assets are reviewed for impairment when events indicate their carrying amounts may not be recoverable from future undiscounted cash flows. If impaired, the assets are recorded at fair value.  

21

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Loan Commitments and Related Financial Instruments  
Financial instruments include off-balance sheet credit instruments, such as commitments to make loans and commercial letters of credit issued to meet customer financing needs. The face amount for these items represents the exposure to loss, before considering customer collateral or ability to repay. Such financial instruments are recorded when they are funded.  

  Repurchase Agreements  
Substantially all repurchase agreement liabilities represent amounts advanced by deposit clients that are not covered by federal deposit insurance and are secured by securities owned by ChoiceOne. 

  Employee Benefit Plans  
ChoiceOne's 401(k) plan allows participant contributions of up to 15% of compensation. Company contributions to the 401(k) plan are discretionary. ChoiceOne allows retired employees to participate in its health insurance plan. These postretirement benefits are accrued during the years in which the employee provides services.  

  Employee Stock Ownership Plan  
The cost of shares issued to the Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the "ESOP") but not yet allocated to participants is presented as a reduction of shareholders' equity. Compensation expense is recorded based on the market price of the shares as they are committed to be released for allocation to participant accounts. The difference between the market price and the cost of shares committed to be released is recorded as an adjustment to additional paid-in capital. Dividends on allocated ESOP shares are recorded as a reduction of retained earnings while dividends on unallocated ESOP shares are reflected as a reduction of debt and accrued interest. Upon distribution of shares to a participant, the participant has the right to require the Company to purchase his or her shares at fair value in accordance with the terms and conditions of the ESOP. As such, these shares are not classified in shareholders' equity as permanent equity. 

  Stock Based Compensation  
Employee compensation expense under ChoiceOne's stock option plan is reported if options are granted below market price at the grant date. Pro forma disclosures of net income and earnings per share are shown using the fair value method to measure expense for options granted using an option pricing model to estimate the fair value.  

 The following pro forma information presents net income and earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, had the fair value method been used to measure compensation cost for stock option plans. No compensation cost was recognized for stock options in 2005, 2004 and 2003.  

 (Dollars in thousands) 

The pro forma effects are computed using an option pricing model and the following weighted average assumptions as of grant date: 

Income Taxes  
Income tax expense is the sum of the current year income tax due and the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities, computed using enacted tax rates. A valuation allowance, if needed, reduces deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. 

22

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Earnings Per Share  
Basic earnings per common share ("EPS") is based on weighted-average common shares outstanding. The weighted-average number of shares used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share includes shares allocated to the ESOP. Diluted EPS further assumes issue of any dilutive potential common shares issuable under stock options. Earnings and dividends per share are restated for stock dividends and splits through the issue date of the financial statements. 

  Comprehensive Income  
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other comprehensive income or loss. Other comprehensive income or loss includes the net change in unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on securities available for sale, net of tax, which is also recognized as a separate component of shareholders' equity. 

  Loss Contingencies  
Loss contingencies, including claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business, are recorded as liabilities when the likelihood of loss is probable and an amount or range of loss can be reasonably estimated. Management does not believe that there are any such matters that may have a material effect on the financial statements. 

  Cash Restrictions  
Cash on hand or on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank of $1,101,000 and $998,000 was required to meet regulatory reserve and clearing requirements at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These balances do not earn interest. 

  Stock Dividends  
Dividends issued in stock are reported by transferring the market value of the stock issued from retained earnings to common stock and additional paid-in capital. Fractional shares resulting from stock dividends are paid in cash. 

  Dividend Restrictions  
Banking regulations require the maintenance of certain capital levels and may limit the amount of dividends which may be paid by the Bank to ChoiceOne or by ChoiceOne to its shareholders (see Note 20). 

  Fair Value of Financial Instruments  
Fair values of financial instruments are estimated using relevant market information and other assumptions, which are more fully documented in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. Fair value estimates involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment regarding interest rates, credit risk, prepayments, and other factors, especially in the absence of broad markets for particular items. Changes in assumptions or in market conditions could significantly affect the estimates. 

  Operating Segments  
While ChoiceOne's management monitors the revenue streams of various products and services for the Bank, Insurance Agency and Mortgage Company, operations and financial performance are evaluated on a company-wide basis. Accordingly, all of the financial service operations are considered by management to be aggregated into one reportable operating segment. 

  Adoption of New Accounting Standards  
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123R, "Share-Based Payment," requires all public companies to record compensation cost for stock options provided to employees in return for employee service. The cost is measured at the fair value of the options when granted, and this cost is expensed over the employee service period, which is normally the vesting period of the options. This will apply to awards granted or modified after the first quarter or year beginning after December 15, 2005. Compensation cost will also be recorded for prior option grants that vest after the date of adoption. The effect on ChoiceOne's results of operations will depend on the level of future grants and the calculation of the fair value of the options granted at such future dates, as well as the vesting periods provided, and therefore cannot currently be predicted. Existing options outstanding as of December 31, 2005 that will vest after the adoption date are expected to result in additional compensation expense of
 approximately $17,000 during 2006, $15,000 in 2007, and $10,000 in 2008. There will be no significant effect on ChoiceOne's financial position, as total shareholders' equity will not change. 

  Reclassifications  
Certain amounts presented in prior year consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation. 

23

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Note 2 - Securities  

 The fair value of securities available for sale and the related gross unrealized gains and losses recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at December 31 were as follows: 

Information regarding sales of securities available for sale follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Contractual maturities of securities available for sale at December 31, 2005 were as follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Various securities were pledged as collateral for securities sold under agreements to repurchase and as collateral for advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank. The carrying amount of securities pledged as collateral at December 31 was as follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

24

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Securities with unrealized losses at year-end 2005 and 2004, aggregated by investment category and length of time the individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, are as follows.  

The Company evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment at least on a semi-annual basis, and more frequently when economic or market concerns warrant such evaluation. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, management has determined that no other-than-temporary declines in market value have occurred. Consideration is given to the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the intent and ability of the Company to retain its investment in the issue for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. 

  Note 3 - Loans  

 The Bank's loan portfolio as of December 31 was as follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

25

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Note 4 - Mortgage Banking  

 Activity during the year was as follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Residential mortgage loans serviced for others are not reported as assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The principal balances (dollars in thousands) of these loans at December 31 were as follows: 

The Bank maintains custodial escrow balances in connection with these serviced loans; however, such escrows were immaterial at December 31, 2005 and 2004.  

 Activity for loan servicing rights was as follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

The fair value of loan servicing rights was $608,000 and $530,000 as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Consequently, a valuation allowance was not necessary at year-end 2005 or 2004.  

  Note 5 - Allowance for Loan Losses  

 Activity in the allowance for loan losses was as follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Information regarding nonperforming loans for the years ended December 31 follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

26

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Nonperforming loans includes both smaller balance homogenous loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment and loans individually classified as impaired loans. Information regarding impaired loans as of and for the year ended December 31 follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Note 6 - Premises and Equipment  

 As of December 31, premises and equipment consisted of the following: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Depreciation expense was $535,000, $495,000, and $538,000 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In September 2004, the Bank sold its Sparta Appletree Office in Sparta, Michigan for a gain of $162,000, of which $105,000 was deferred over a three-year term since part of the office was simultaneously leased back from the purchaser. Also, in September 2004, the Bank opened a new office in Rockford, Michigan. In July 2005, the Bank opened a new office in Comstock Park, Michigan. The Bank's lease on the former Alpine Office location in Comstock Park expired in July 2005.  

 The Bank leases certain branch properties and automated-teller machine locations in its normal course of business. Rent expense totaled $57,000, $40,000, and $40,000 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Rent commitments under non-cancelable operating leases were as follows, before considering renewal options that generally are present (dollars in thousands): 

Note 7 - Other Real Estate Owned  

 Other real estate owned represents residential and commercial properties owned and is reported net of a valuation allowance. Activity within other real estate owned was as follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

The valuation allowance on other real estate owned totaled $84,000 and $54,000 at year-end 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

27

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Note 8 - Deposits  

 Scheduled maturities of certificates of deposit at December 31 were as follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

The Bank had certificates of deposit issued in denominations of $100,000 or greater totaling $54.5 million and $42.3 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Bank had brokered certificates of deposit totaling $36.5 million at December 31, 2005 compared to $33.7 million at December 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2005, the weighted average interest rate on these brokered certificates of deposit was 3.52% with maturities ranging from January 2006 to November 2008. 

  Note 9 - Repurchase Agreements  

 Repurchase agreements are advances by customers that are not covered by federal deposit insurance. These agreements are direct obligations of the Bank and are secured by securities held in safekeeping at a correspondent bank. Information regarding repurchase agreements follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Note 10 - Federal Home Loan Bank Advances  

 At December 31, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank were as follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Penalties are charged on fixed rate advances that are paid prior to maturity. The Bank prepaid $3 million of fixed rate advances incurring a prepayment penalty of $156,000 in 2003. No fixed rate advances were paid prior to maturity in 2005 or 2004. 

28

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Advances are secured by both residential real estate loans and U.S. Government agency securities with a carrying value of approximately $55.6 million and $52.5 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Based on this collateral, the Bank was eligible to borrow an additional $13.2 million at year-end 2005. 

 The scheduled maturities of advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank at December 31, 2005 are as follows (dollars in thousands): 

Note 11 - Income Taxes  

 Information as of December 31 and for the year follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

29

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

A valuation allowance related to deferred taxes is recognized when it is considered more likely than not that part or all of the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. Management has determined that no such allowance was required at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 

  Note 12 - Related Party Transactions  

 Loans to executive officers, directors and their affiliates were as follows at December 31: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Deposits from executive officers, directors, and their affiliates were $4.5 million and $5.0 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

 In 2004, the Bank sold its Sparta Appletree Office to an affiliate of a member of ChoiceOne's Board of Directors. The building and other related fixed assets were sold for a net gain of $162,000. Half of the building is being leased back from the same affiliate of the Board member for a three-year term. An independent appraiser determined the market value of the building.  

  Note 13 - Employee Benefit Plans  

  401(k) Plan : 
The 401(k) plan allows employee contributions of up to 15% of their compensation. Matching company contributions to the plan are discretionary. Expense of this plan was $95,000, $65,000 and $45,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

  Employee Stock Ownership Plan : 
Employees participate in an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the "ESOP"). In 2000, the ESOP borrowed $91,000 from the Bank and used the funds to acquire 5,355 shares of ChoiceOne common stock at $16.93 per share. These amounts have been adjusted for stock splits and dividends. ChoiceOne makes discretionary contributions to the ESOP, as well as paying dividends on unallocated shares to the ESOP, and the ESOP uses funds it receives to repay the loan. As loan payments are made, ESOP shares are allocated to participants based on relative compensation and expense is recorded. Dividends on allocated shares increase the participant accounts. 

 Participants become fully vested upon completion of six years of qualifying service. Participants receive the shares at the end of employment. A participant may require stock received to be repurchased unless the stock is traded on an established market. ChoiceOne contributed $12,000, $23,000 and $23,000 to the ESOP during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Expense for 2005, 2004, and 2003, was $6,000, $18,000, and $14,000, respectively.  

 Shares held by the ESOP were as follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

30

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Postretirement Benefits Plan : 
ChoiceOne maintains an unfunded, noncontributory postretirement health care plan that covers active and retired employees and their dependents upon retirement from ChoiceOne. Information about the postretirement benefits plan follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

The following benefit payments, which reflect future service, are expected in the years indicated below: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Deferred Compensation Plan : 
A deferred compensation plan covers one former executive officer. Under the plan, ChoiceOne pays this individual the amount of compensation deferred plus interest over 10 years beginning with the individual's termination of service. A liability has been accrued for the obligation under this plan. ChoiceOne incurred deferred compensation plan expense of $1,000, $1,000, and $2,000 in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively, which resulted in a deferred compensation liability of $12,000 and $37,000 as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. ChoiceOne has purchased life insurance on the participant. The cash surrender value of such insurance was $162,000 and $159,000 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

31

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Note 14 - Stock Options  

 Options to buy stock are granted to key employees under an incentive stock option plan to provide them with an additional equity interest in ChoiceOne. The plan provides for issuance of up to 113,155 options. The exercise price is the market price at the date of grant, so there is no compensation expense recognized in the income statement. The maximum option term is 10 years and options vest over 3 years. At December 31, 2005, there were 89,441 options available for future grants. 

 A summary of the activity in the plan is as follows: 

The range of prices for options outstanding and exercisable at the end of 2005 ranged from $13.04 to $21.43 per share. The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding and exercisable at the end of 2005 was approximately 7.8 years. The numbers of options, weighted average exercise prices, and fair value of options granted have been adjusted for all stock dividends and splits. 

  Note 15 - Earnings Per Share  

 (Dollars in thousands, except per share) 

Weighted average common shares have been adjusted for the stock dividend in 2005. As of December 31, 2005, there were 7,875 stock options considered to be anti-dilutive to earnings per share and thus have been excluded from the calculation above. There were no stock options considered to be anti-dilutive to earnings per share as of December 31, 2004 or 2003, respectively. 

32

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Note 16 - Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

 Other comprehensive income (loss) components and related taxes follows: 

 (Dollars in thousands) 

Note 17 - Condensed Financial Statements of Parent Company 

 Condensed Balance Sheets  

Condensed Statements of Income  

33

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Condensed Statements of Cash Flows  

Note 18 - Financial Instruments  

 Financial instruments as of December 31 were as follows: 

The estimated fair values approximate the carrying amounts for all assets and liabilities except those described later in this paragraph. The estimated fair value for securities available for sale is based on quoted market values for the individual securities or for equivalent securities. The estimated fair value for loans is based on the rates charged at December 31 for new loans with similar maturities, applied until the loan is assumed to reprice or be paid. The allowance for loan losses is considered to be a reasonable estimate of 

34

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

discount for credit quality concerns. The estimated fair values for time deposits and FHLB advances are based on the rates paid at December 31 for new deposits or FHLB advances, applied until maturity. The estimated fair values for other financial instruments and off-balance sheet loan commitments are considered nominal. 

  Note 19 - Off-Balance Sheet Activities  

 Some financial instruments, such as loan commitments, credit lines, letters of credit, and overdraft protection, are issued to meet customers' financing needs. These are agreements to provide credit or to support the credit of others, as long as conditions established in the contract are met, and usually have expiration dates. Commitments may expire without being used. Off-balance sheet risk to credit loss exists up to the face amount of these instruments, although material losses are not anticipated. The same credit policies are used to make such commitments as are used for loans, including obtaining collateral at exercise of the commitment. 

 The contractual amount of financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk was as follows at December 31: 

Commitments to fund loans are generally made for periods of 180 days or less. The fixed rate loan commitments have interest rates ranging from 5.75% to 8.25% and maturities ranging from 6 years to 30 years. 

  Note 20 - Regulatory Capital  

 ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. and ChoiceOne Bank are subject to regulatory capital requirements administered by federal banking agencies. Capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action regulations involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items calculated under regulatory accounting practices. 

 The prompt corrective action regulations provide five classifications, including well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized, although these terms are not used to represent overall financial condition. If only adequately capitalized, regulatory approval is required to accept brokered deposits. If undercapitalized, capital distributions are limited, as are asset growth and expansion, and plans for capital restoration are required. At year-end 2005 and 2004, the most recent regulatory notifications categorized the Bank as well capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. There are no conditions or events since that notification that management believes have changed the institutions' categories. 

 Actual capital levels and minimum required levels were as follows: 

35 

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 
 N OTES TO  C ONSOLIDATED  F INANCIAL  S TATEMENTS   

Banking regulations limit capital distributions by state-chartered banks. Generally, capital distributions are limited to undistributed net income for the current and prior two years. At December 31, 2005, approximately $2.6 million was available for ChoiceOne Bank to pay dividends to ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. ChoiceOne's ability to pay dividends to shareholders is dependent on the Bank, which is restricted by state law and regulations. These regulations pose no practical restrictions to paying dividends at historical levels. 

  Note 21 - Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  

*  Per share amounts are retroactively adjusted for the effect of the stock dividend in May 2005. 

36

C ORPORATE AND  S HAREHOLDER  I NFORMATION   
ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 

37 

D IRECTORS AND  O FFICERS 	  
ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 

Directors  
 ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc.  
 
 Jon E. Pike  
   Chairman, CPA, Beene Garter LLP 
   (Certified Public Accountants) 
 
 Frank G. Berris  
   President and Chief Executive Officer, 
   American Gas   Oil Co., Inc. 
   (Distributor of Petroleum Products) 
 
 James A. Bosserd  
   President and Chief Executive Officer, 
   ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. and 
   ChoiceOne Bank 
 
 William F. Cutler, Jr.  
   Former Vice President, H. H. Cutler Co. 
   (Apparel Manufacturer) 
 
 Lewis G. Emmons  
   President, Emmons Development; 
   President, Brat Development 
   (Real Estate Development) 
 
 Stuart Goodfellow  
   Owner, Goodfellow Vending Services 
   (Vending Company) and Goodfellow 
   Blueberry Farms 
 
 Bruce A. Johnson  
   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 
     Spartan Distributors, Inc. 
   (Lawn, Garden, Turf and Irrigation 
   Equipment and Materials) 
 
 Paul L. Johnson  
   President, Falcon Resources, Inc. 
   (Automotive and Furniture Design) 
 
 Linda R. Pitsch  
   Secretary, ChoiceOne Financial Services, 
   Inc.; Senior Vice President - Operations 
   Officer, ChoiceOne Bank 
 
 Andrew W. Zamiara, R.Ph.  
   President, Sparta Village Pharmacy, Inc. and 
   Momber   Hallmark 

Officers  
 ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc.  
 
 James A. Bosserd  
   President and Chief Executive Officer 
 
 Louis D. Knooihuizen  
   Vice President 
 
 Linda R. Pitsch  
   Secretary 
 
 Thomas L. Lampen  
   Treasurer  
 
   Officers  
 Subsidiary - ChoiceOne Bank  
 
 James A. Bosserd  
   President and Chief Executive Officer 
 
 Louis D. Knooihuizen  
   Senior Vice President - 
      Senior Loan Officer 
 
 Linda R. Pitsch  
   Senior Vice President - Operations 
      Officer 
 
 Lee A. Braford  
   Vice President - Retail Loans/ 
      Sales Administration 
 
 Amy S. Homich  
   Vice President - Commercial Loans 
 
 John C. Huffman  
   Vice President - Commercial Loans 
 
 Mary J. Johnson  
   Vice President - Human Resources/ 
      Internal Audit 
 
 Thomas L. Lampen  
   Vice President - Chief Financial Officer 
 
 Linda K. Anderson  
   Assistant Vice President - 
      Rockford Office Manager 
 
 Michael F. Feighan  
   Assistant Vice President - Controller 
 
 Dean A. Hanson  
   Assistant Vice President - 
      Sparta Appletree Office Manager 
 
 Jason J. Herbig  
   Assistant Vice President - 
      Management Information Systems/ 
      Network Administration 
 
 Valerie J. Heyt  
   Assistant Vice President - 
      Business Development  
 
 Michael G. Monica  
   Assistant Vice President - 
      Alpine Office Manager 
 
 Lori J. O'Brien  
   Assistant Vice President - 
      Loan Operations Manager 
 
 Jason A. Parker  
   Assistant Vice President - 
      Cedar Springs Office Manager 
 
 Christine L. Tomaszek  
   Assistant Vice President - 
      Operations Manager  
 
   Officers  
 Subsidiary - ChoiceOne Insurance 
Agencies, Inc.  
 
 James A. Bosserd  
   President 
 
 Kelly J. Potes  
   Senior Vice President - 
      General Manager 
 
 Jeffrey S. Bradford, CIC  
   Vice President 
 
 Linda R. Pitsch  
   Secretary 
 
 Thomas L. Lampen  
   Treasurer 
 
 Officers  
 Subsidiary - ChoiceOne Mortgage 
Company of Michigan  
 
 James A. Bosserd  
   President 
 
 Louis D. Knooihuizen  
   Senior Vice President 
 
 Lee A. Braford  
   Vice President 
 
 Marilyn B. Childress  
   Assistant Vice President 
 
 Linda R. Pitsch  
   Secretary 
 
 Thomas L. Lampen  
   Treasurer  

38 

</EX-13>

<EX-16>
 5
 choiceex16_033106.htm
 CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES EXHIBIT 16 TO FORM 10-K

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., Exhibit 16 to Form 10-K - 03-31-06 

EXHIBIT 16  

March 30, 2006 

Securities and Exchange Commission 
10 F Street, NE 
Washington, D.C. 20549 

Ladies and Gentlemen: 

 We have read the statements made by ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. ( the Registrant ) regarding us under the heading "Change in Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" on page 14 of the Registrant's 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders that is incorporated by reference in the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, as contained in the second, third, and fourth paragraphs, and are in agreement with those statements. 

/s/ Crowe Chizek and Company LLC 
Crowe Chizek and Company LLC 
Grand Rapids, Michigan 

cc: 
 
 Mr. Jon Pike 
Audit Committee Chairman 
ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 

</EX-16>

<EX-21>
 6
 choiceex21_033106.htm
 CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES EXHIBIT 21 TO FORM 10-K

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., Exhibit 21 to Form 10-K - 03-31-06 

EXHIBIT 21  

  SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT  

The following lists the subsidiaries of the Registrant and the state or jurisdiction of incorporation. 

___________________ 

(1) 
 
 These are wholly-owned subsidiaries of ChoiceOne Bank. 

(2) 
 
 ChoiceOne Bank owns a 20% interest in West Shore Computer Services, Inc. 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 choiceex23_033106.htm
 CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES EXHIBIT 23 TO FORM 10-K

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., Exhibit 23 to Form 10-K - 03-31-06 

EXHIBIT 23  

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc.: on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-44336); Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-91364); and Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-91366) of our report dated March 7, 2006 on the 2005 consolidated financial statements of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., which report is incorporated by reference and included in Exhibit 13 in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 

/s/ Crowe Chizek and Company LLC 
Crowe Chizek and Company LLC 

Grand Rapids, Michigan 
March 24, 2006 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 choiceex24_033106.htm
 CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES EXHIBIT 24 TO FORM 10-K

ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., Exhibit 24 to Form 10-K - 03-31-06 

EXHIBIT 24 

LIMITED POWER OF ATTORNEY  

           The undersigned, in his or her capacity as a director or officer, or both, of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., does hereby appoint Jon E. Pike, James A. Bosserd, Linda R. Pitsch and Thomas Lampen, or any of them, his or her attorneys or attorney, with full power of substitution, to execute in his or her name an Annual Report of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and any amendments to that report, and to file it with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Each attorney shall have power and authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, every act to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as the undersigned could do in person, and the undersigned hereby ratifies and approves the acts of such attorneys. 

Dated:  February 13, 2006 
 
 /s/Jon E. Pike  

(signature) 

Jon E. Pike  

(type or print name) 

LIMITED POWER OF ATTORNEY  

           The undersigned, in his or her capacity as a director or officer, or both, of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., does hereby appoint Jon E. Pike, James A. Bosserd, Linda R. Pitsch and Thomas Lampen, or any of them, his or her attorneys or attorney, with full power of substitution, to execute in his or her name an Annual Report of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and any amendments to that report, and to file it with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Each attorney shall have power and authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, every act to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as the undersigned could do in person, and the undersigned hereby ratifies and approves the acts of such attorneys. 

Dated:  February 15, 2006 
 
 /s/Frank G. Berris  

(signature) 

Frank G. Berris  

(type or print name) 

LIMITED POWER OF ATTORNEY  

           The undersigned, in his or her capacity as a director or officer, or both, of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., does hereby appoint Jon E. Pike, James A. Bosserd, Linda R. Pitsch and Thomas Lampen, or any of them, his or her attorneys or attorney, with full power of substitution, to execute in his or her name an Annual Report of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and any amendments to that report, and to file it with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Each attorney shall have power and authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, every act to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as the undersigned could do in person, and the undersigned hereby ratifies and approves the acts of such attorneys. 

Dated:  February 10, 2006 
 
 /s/William F. Cutler, Jr.  

(signature) 

William F. Cutler, Jr.  

(type or print name) 

LIMITED POWER OF ATTORNEY  

           The undersigned, in his or her capacity as a director or officer, or both, of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., does hereby appoint Jon E. Pike, James A. Bosserd, Linda R. Pitsch and Thomas Lampen, or any of them, his or her attorneys or attorney, with full power of substitution, to execute in his or her name an Annual Report of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and any amendments to that report, and to file it with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Each attorney shall have power and authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, every act to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as the undersigned could do in person, and the undersigned hereby ratifies and approves the acts of such attorneys. 

Dated:  February 13, 2006 
 
 /s/Lewis G. Emmons  

(signature) 

Lewis G. Emmons  

(type or print name) 

LIMITED POWER OF ATTORNEY  

           The undersigned, in his or her capacity as a director or officer, or both, of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., does hereby appoint Jon E. Pike, James A. Bosserd, Linda R. Pitsch and Thomas Lampen, or any of them, his or her attorneys or attorney, with full power of substitution, to execute in his or her name an Annual Report of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and any amendments to that report, and to file it with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Each attorney shall have power and authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, every act to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as the undersigned could do in person, and the undersigned hereby ratifies and approves the acts of such attorneys. 

Dated:  February 10, 2006 
 
 /s/Bruce A. Johnson  

(signature) 

Bruce A. Johnson  

(type or print name) 

LIMITED POWER OF ATTORNEY  

           The undersigned, in his or her capacity as a director or officer, or both, of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., does hereby appoint Jon E. Pike, James A. Bosserd, Linda R. Pitsch and Thomas Lampen, or any of them, his or her attorneys or attorney, with full power of substitution, to execute in his or her name an Annual Report of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and any amendments to that report, and to file it with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Each attorney shall have power and authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, every act to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as the undersigned could do in person, and the undersigned hereby ratifies and approves the acts of such attorneys. 

Dated:  February 15, 2006 
 
 /s/Paul L. Johnson  

(signature) 

Paul L. Johnson  

(type or print name) 

LIMITED POWER OF ATTORNEY  

           The undersigned, in his or her capacity as a director or officer, or both, of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc., does hereby appoint Jon E. Pike, James A. Bosserd, Linda R. Pitsch and Thomas Lampen, or any of them, his or her attorneys or attorney, with full power of substitution, to execute in his or her name an Annual Report of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and any amendments to that report, and to file it with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Each attorney shall have power and authority to do and perform in the name and on behalf of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, every act to be done in the premises as fully and to all intents and purposes as the undersigned could do in person, and the undersigned hereby ratifies and approves the acts of such attorneys. 

Dated:  February 14, 2006 
 
 /s/Andrew W. Zamiara  

(signature) 

Andrew W. Zamiara  

(type or print name) 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 choiceex311_033106.htm
 CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES EXHIBIT 31.1 TO FORM 10-K

ChoiceOne Financial Exhibit 31.1 to Form 10-K - 03/31/06 

EXHIBIT 31.1  

  CERTIFICATIONS  

 I, James A. Bosserd, certify that: 

1. 
 
 I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc.; 

2. 
 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 
 
 The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

c) 
 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
 
 The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: March 31, 2006 
 
 /s/ James A. Bosserd  

James A. Bosserd 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 choiceex312_033106.htm
 CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES EXHIBIT 31.2 TO FORM 10-K

ChoiceOne Financial Exhibit 31.2 to Form 10-K - 03/31/06 

EXHIBIT 31.2  

  CERTIFICATIONS  

 I, Thomas L. Lampen, certify that: 

1. 
 
 I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc.; 

2. 
 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 
 
 The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

c) 
 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
 
 The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006 
 
 /s/ Thomas L. Lampen  

Thomas L. Lampen 
Treasurer 
ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 11
 choiceex32_033106.htm
 CHOICEONE FINANCIAL SERVICES EXHIBIT 32 TO FORM 10-K

ChoiceOne Financial Exhibit 32 to Form 10-K - 03/31/06 

EXHIBIT 32  

  CERTIFICATION  

 Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, each of the undersigned hereby certifies in his capacity as an officer of ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. (the "Company") that the Annual Report of the Company on Form 10-K for the accounting period ended December 31, 2005 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition of the Company at the end of such period and the results of operations of the Company for such period. 

Dated: March 31, 2006 
 
 /s/ James A. Bosserd  

James A. Bosserd 
President and Chief Executive Officer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. and will be retained by ChoiceOne Financial Services, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32>

