<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_930405_0000908834-06-000172_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3815708</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>310751</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>52009</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2804071</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>74</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000908834-06-000172.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331155110
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000908834-06-000172
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LSB FINANCIAL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000930405
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SAVINGS INSTITUTION, FEDERALLY CHARTERED [6035]
		IRS NUMBER:				351934975
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-25070
		FILM NUMBER:		06728832

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 MAIN ST
		CITY:			LAFAYETTE
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			47902
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7657421064

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		PO BOX 1628
		CITY:			LAFAYETTE
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			47902-1628

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 ULJgLiOwEdXiIURuVqlJhQyUnp/j33FIcHdzmHpUnH8Reer/G3/uv/6AOOpW4u3F
 xzF2xSKTPgfm23nHDp4myw==

 0000908834-06-000172.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 lsb_10k.htm
 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005

UNITED
      STATES  

       SECURITIES
      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

       WASHINGTON,
      D.C. 20549  

FORM
      10-K  

For
      the
      transition period from ____________ to ____________ 

Commission
      file number:    0-25070  

LSB
      FINANCIAL CORP.  

      (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

INDIANA  

35-1934975  

(State
                or other jurisdiction of 

(I.R.S.
                Employer 

incorporation
                or organization) 

Identification
                No.) 

101
                Main Street, Lafayette, Indiana  

47901  

(Address
                of principal executive offices) 

(Zip
                Code) 

(765)
      742-1064  

      (Registrant s
      telephone number, including area code) 

None  

      (Former
      name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last
      report) 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   
      None  

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    Common
      Stock, par value $0.01 per share  

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes       No   x 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes       No   x 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
      to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
      for
      the past 90 days. Yes   x   No     

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
      this
      Form 10-K.   x 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
      filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large
                accelerated filer     

Accelerated
                filer     

Non-accelerated
                filer   x 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
      12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes       No   x 

As
      of
      June 30, 2005, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held
      by non-affiliates of the registrant was $32,323,006 based on the closing sale
      price as reported on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
      Quotation System National Market System. 

Indicate
      the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common
      stock, as of the latest practicable date. 

DOCUMENTS
      INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Document 

Parts
                Into Which Incorporated 

Annual
                Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005

Parts
                I and II 

Proxy
                Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April
                19,
                2006 

Part
                III 

Exhibit
      Index on Page E-1 

LSB
      Financial Corporation  

       Form
      10-K  

       Index  

Page 

Forward-Looking
                Statements 

1 

Part
                I 

2 

Item
                1 

Business 

2 

Item
                1A 

Risk
                Factors 

30 

Item
                1B 

Unresolved
                Staff Comments 

31 

Item
                2 

Properties 

32 

Item
                3 

Legal
                Proceedings 

32 

Item
                4 

Submission
                of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

32 

Item
                4.5 

Executive
                Officers of the Registrant 

32 

Part
                II 

33 

Item
                5 

Market
                for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
                of
                Equity Securities 

33 

Item
                6 

Selected
                Financial Data 

34 

Item
                7 

Management s
                Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
                Operations 

34 

Item
                7A 

Quantitative
                and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

34 

Item
                8 

Financial
                Statements and Supplementary Data 

34 

Item
                9 

Changes
                in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
                Disclosure 

34 

Item
                9A 

Controls
                and Procedures 

34 

Item
                9B 

Other
                Information 

35 

Part
                III 

36 

Item
                10 

Directors
                and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

36 

Item
                11 

Executive
                Compensation 

36 

Item
                12 

Security
                Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
                Stockholder Matters 

36 

Item
                13 

Certain
                Relationships and Related Transactions 

37 

Item
                14 

Principal
                Accountant Fees and Services 

37 

Part
                IV 

38 

Item
                15 

Exhibits,
                Financial Statement Schedules 

38 

i 

DISCLOSURE
      REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

This
      document, including information included or incorporated by reference, contains,
      and future filings by LSB Financial on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and future oral
      and written statements by LSB Financial and our management may contain,
      forward-looking statements about LSB Financial and its subsidiaries which we
      believe are within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
      Act
      of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation,
      statements with respect to anticipated future operating and financial
      performance, growth opportunities, interest rates, cost savings and funding
      advantages expected or anticipated to be realized by management. Words such
      as
 may,   could,   should,   would,   believe,   anticipate,   estimate, 
 expect,   intend,   plan  and similar expressions are intended to identify
      these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements by LSB Financial
      and its management are based on beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations,
      anticipations, estimates and intentions of management and are not guarantees
      of
      future performance. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise any
      forward-looking statements based on the occurrence of future events, the receipt
      of new information, or otherwise. The important factors we discuss below and
      elsewhere in this document, including those set forth under  Risk Factors,  as
      well as other factors discussed under the caption  Management s Discussion and
      Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in our Annual Report
      to Shareholders attached to this Form 10-K as Exhibit 13 and identified in
      our
      filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and those presented
      elsewhere by our management from time to time, could cause actual results to
      differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements made
      in
      this document. 

The
      following factors, many of which are subject to change based on various other
      factors beyond our control, could cause our financial performance to differ
      materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions
      expressed in such forward-looking statements: 

the
                  strength of the United States economy in general and the strength
                  of the
                  local economies in which we conduct our operations; 

the
                  effects of, and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies
                  and laws,
                  including interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve
                  Board; 

financial
                  market, monetary and interest rate fluctuations, particularly the
                  relative
                  relationship of short-term interest rates to long-term interest
                  rates; 

the
                  timely development of and acceptance of new products and services
                  of
                  Lafayette Savings Bank and the perceived overall value of these
                  products
                  and services by users, including the features, pricing and quality
                  compared to competitors  products and services; 

the
                  willingness of users to substitute competitors  products and services for
                  our products and services; 

the
                  impact of changes in financial services laws and regulations (including
                  laws concerning taxes, accounting standards, banking, securities
                  and
                  insurance); 

the
                  impact of technological changes; 

acquisitions; 

changes
                  in consumer spending and saving habits; and 

our
                  success at managing the risks involved in the foregoing. 

1 

PART
      I  

Item
      1.           Business   

General  

LSB
      Financial Corp. ( LSB Financial  or the  Company ) is an Indiana corporation
      which was organized in 1994 by Lafayette Savings Bank, FSB ( Lafayette Savings )
      for the purpose of becoming a thrift institution holding company. Lafayette
      Savings is a federally chartered stock savings bank headquartered in Lafayette,
      Indiana. Originally organized in 1869, Lafayette Savings converted to a federal
      savings bank in 1984. Lafayette Savings  deposits are insured up to the
      applicable limits by the Bank Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance
      Corporation (the  FDIC ). In February 1995, Lafayette Savings converted to the
      stock form of organization through the sale and issuance of 1,029,576 shares
      of
      its common stock to LSB Financial. LSB Financial s principal asset is the
      outstanding stock of Lafayette Savings. LSB Financial presently has no separate
      operations and its business consists only of the business of Lafayette Savings.
      References in this Form 10-K to  we ,  us , and  our  refer to LSB Financial
      and/or Lafayette Savings as the context requires. 

We
      have
      been, and intend to continue to be, a community-oriented financial institution.
      Our principal business consists of attracting retail deposits from the general
      public and investing those funds primarily in permanent first mortgage loans
      secured by owner-occupied, one- to four-family residences, and to a lesser
      extent, non-owner occupied one- to four-family residential, commercial real
      estate, multi-family, construction and development, consumer and commercial
      business loans. We currently serve Tippecanoe County, Indiana and its
      surrounding counties through our five retail banking offices. At December 31,
      2005, we had total assets of $372.7 million, deposits of $266.0 million and
      shareholders  equity of $32.8 million. 

Our
      revenues are derived principally from interest on mortgage and other loans
      and
      interest on securities. 

Our
      executive offices are located at 101 Main Street, Lafayette, Indiana 47901.
      Our
      telephone number at that address is (765) 742-1064. 

Market
      Area  

Tippecanoe
      County and the eight surrounding counties comprise Lafayette Savings  primary
      market area. Lafayette is the county seat of Tippecanoe County and West
      Lafayette is the home of Purdue University. In addition to the jobs provided
      by
      these two major employers, Greater Lafayette has a strong manufacturing sector
      as well as many high-tech industries attracted to the area by the presence
      of
      Purdue University. The Purdue Research Park continues to attract high-tech
      jobs
      to the area, housing over 130 companies and employing over 2,500 people. Further
      growth is expected in this area. Tippecanoe County consistently shows better
      growth and lower unemployment rates than Indiana or the national economy because
      of the diverse employment base. The unemployment rate in Tippecanoe County
      in
      December 2005 was 4.6% compared to 5.3% for the State of Indiana and 4.9%
      nationally. This represents a slight increase from 2004 when the comparable
      numbers were 4.2%, 5.0% and 5.1%, respectively. 

Lending
      Activities  

General     .   
      Our
      principal lending activity is the origination of conventional mortgage loans
      for
      the purpose of purchasing, constructing, or refinancing owner-occupied one-
      to
      four-family residential real estate located in our primary market area. We
      also
      originate non-owner occupied one- to four-family residential, multi-family
      and
      land development, commercial real estate, consumer and commercial business
      loans. 

We
      originate both adjustable rate loans and fixed rate loans. We originate
      adjustable rate loans for retention in our portfolio in an effort to increase
      the percentage of loans with more frequent repricing than traditional long-term
      fixed rate loans. As a result of continued consumer demand for long-term fixed
      rate loans, we have continued to originate such loans. We underwrite these
      mortgages utilizing secondary market guidelines allowing them to be salable,
      without recourse. The sale of these loans results in additional short-term
      income and improves our interest-rate risk position. We generally retain
      servicing rights on loans sold to Freddie Mac, but release the servicing rights
      on loans sold to other third parties. Furthermore, in order to limit our
      potential exposure to increasing interest rates caused by our traditional
      emphasis on originating single-family mortgage loans, we have 

2 

diversified
      our portfolio by increasing our emphasis on the origination of short-term or
      adjustable rate multi-family and commercial real estate loans and commercial
      business and consumer loans. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
      Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Asset/Liability Management  in
      the Annual Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual
      Report. 

Our
      loan
      officers and certain executive officers in combination with a senior loan
      officer have approval authority on loans up to $500,000 based on the borrower s
      aggregate indebtedness and debt services coverage. Our officers  loan committee
      has approval authority on loans up to $1.5 million, also qualified by the
      borrower s aggregate indebtedness and debt services coverage. The Board of
      Directors  loan committee approves all loans where aggregate debt is over $1.5
      million or where debt coverage is below certain minimum thresholds. 

At
      December 31, 2005, the maximum amount we could have loaned to any one borrower
      and the borrower s related entities was $5.1 million. Our largest lending
      relationship to a single borrower or a group of related borrowers at December
      31, 2005, totaled $4.8 million, consisting of multiple loans on commercial
      properties and a single loan secured by a one- to four-family rental property.
      The second largest lending relationship at December 31, 2005 to a single
      borrower or a group of related borrowers totaled $4.7 million, consisting of
      two
      land development loans and related letters of credit, a single loan on a
      commercial property, a working capital line of credit and a loan secured by
      a
      one- to four-family residence. The third largest lending relationship to a
      single borrower or a group of related borrowers totaled $4.5 million, consisting
      of two loans and related letters of credit on a commercial development, a land
      development loan and a working capital line of credit. All of these loans were
      performing in accordance with their terms at December 31, 2005. At December
      31,
      2005, we had forty other loans or lending relationships to a single borrower
      or
      group of related borrowers with a principal balance in excess of $2.0
      million. 

3 

Loan
      Portfolio Composition    .
      The
      following table sets forth information concerning the composition of our loan
      portfolio, including loans held for sale, in dollar amounts and in percentages
      of the total loan portfolio, before deductions for loans in process, deferred
      fees and discounts and allowances for losses.    

4 

The
      following table shows the composition of our loan portfolio, including loans
      held for sale, by fixed and adjustable rate at the dates indicated. The one-
      to
      four-family fixed rate loans include $1.0 million, $3.2 million and $5.7 million
      of loans at December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, which carry a fixed
      rate of interest for the initial five or seven years and then convert to a
      one-year adjustable rate of interest for the remaining term of the
      loan. 

5 

The
      following schedule illustrates the maturities of our loan portfolio at December
      31, 2005. Loans which have adjustable or renegotiable interest rates are shown
      as maturing in the period during which the contract is due. The schedule does
      not reflect the effects of possible prepayments or enforcement of due-on-sale
      clauses.  

(1) 

Includes
                one- to four-family, multi-family and commercial real estate
                loans. 

6 

The
      total
      amount of loans due to mature after December 31, 2006 which have fixed interest
      rates is $54.0 million, and which have adjustable or renegotiable interest
      rates
      is $229.4 million. 

One-
      to Four-Family Residential Real Estate Lending  

Our
      lending program focuses on the origination of permanent loans secured by
      mortgages on owner-occupied, one- to four-family residences. We also originate
      loans secured by non-owner-occupied, one- to four-family residences.
      Substantially all of these loans are secured by properties located in our
      primary market area. We originate a variety of residential loans, including
      conventional 15- and 30-year fixed rate loans, fixed rate loans convertible
      to
      adjustable rate loans, adjustable rate loans and balloon loans. 

Our
      one-
      to four-family residential adjustable rate loans are fully amortizing loans
      with
      contractual maturities of up to 30 years. The interest rates on the majority
      of
      the adjustable rate loans originated by us are subject to adjustment at one-,
      three- or five-year intervals. Our adjustable rate mortgage products generally
      carry interest rates which are reset to a stated margin over the weekly average
      of the one-, three- or five-year U.S. Treasury rates. Increases or decreases
      in
      the interest rate of our one-year adjustable rate loans are generally limited
      to
      2% annually with a lifetime interest rate cap of 6% over the initial rate.
      Increases or decreases in the interest rate of three-year and five-year
      adjustable rate loans are limited to a 3% annual adjustment cap with a 5%
      lifetime interest rate cap over the initial rate. Our one-year adjustable rate
      loans may be convertible into fixed rate loans after the first year and before
      the sixth year upon payment of a fee, do not contain prepayment penalties and
      do
      not produce negative amortization. Initial interest rates offered on our
      adjustable rate loans may be below the fully indexed rate. Borrowers are
      qualified at 2% over the initial interest rate for our one-year adjustable
      rate
      loans and at the initial interest rate for our three-year and five-year
      adjustable rate loans. We generally retain adjustable rate loans in our
      portfolio pursuant to our asset/liability management strategy. Five-year
      adjustable rate mortgage loans represented $11.3 million, three-year adjustable
      rate mortgage loans represented $72.2 million and one-year adjustable rate
      mortgage loans represented $1.8 million of our adjustable rate mortgage loans
      at
      December 31, 2005. To a lesser extent, we also offer a floating rate mortgage
      loan based on national prime rate, generally on non-owner-occupied residential
      loans. These loans represented $5.6 million of our adjustable rate mortgage
      loans at December 31, 2005. 

We
      offer
      fixed rate mortgage loans to owner-occupants with maturities up to 30 years
      and
      which conform to Freddie Mac standards. We currently sell in the secondary
      market the majority of our long-term, conforming, fixed rate loans with terms
      over 15 years. Loans designated as held for sale are carried on the balance
      sheet at the lower of cost or market value. At December 31, 2005, we had no
      loans held for sale. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations - Asset/Liability Management  in the Annual
      Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report. Interest
      rates
      charged on these fixed rate loans are priced on a daily basis in accordance
      with
      Freddie Mac pricing standards. These loans do not include prepayment
      penalties. 

We
      also
      offer 30-year fixed rate mortgage loans, which, after five or seven years,
      convert to our standard one-year adjustable rate mortgage for the remainder
      of
      the term. Of these, $4.3 million have less than three years to their adjustment
      date and are included in adjustable rate loans. 

We
      had
      $82.7 million in non-owner-occupied one- to four-family residential loans at
      December 31, 2005. These loans are underwritten using the same criteria as
      owner-occupied, one- to four-family residential loans, but are provided at
      higher rates than owner-occupied loans. We offer fixed rate, adjustable rate
      and
      convertible-rate loans, with terms of up to 30 years. 

We
      originate residential mortgage loans with loan-to-value ratios of up to 95%
      for
      owner-occupied residential loans and up to 80% for non-owner-occupied
      residential loans. We require private mortgage insurance in an amount intended
      to reduce our exposure to 80% or less of the lesser of the purchase price or
      appraised value of the underlying collateral. We occasionally originate FHA
      loans in excess of 95% loan-to-value, all of which are sold, with the servicing
      rights released, to a third party. 

7 

In
      underwriting one- to four-family residential real estate loans, we evaluate
      both
      the borrower s ability to make monthly payments and the value of the property
      securing the loan. Properties securing owner-occupied one- to four-family
      residential real estate loans that we make are appraised by independent fee
      appraisers. We require borrowers to obtain title insurance and fire insurance,
      extended coverage casualty insurance and flood insurance, if appropriate. Real
      estate loans that we originate contain a  due on sale  clause allowing us to
      declare the unpaid principal balance due and payable upon the sale of the
      security property. 

Multi-Family
      and Commercial Real Estate Lending  

We
      originate permanent loans secured by multi-family and commercial real estate.
      Our permanent multi-family and commercial real estate loan portfolio includes
      loans secured by apartment buildings, office buildings, churches, warehouses,
      retail stores, shopping centers, small business facilities and farm properties,
      most of which are located within our primary market area. 

Permanent
      multi-family and commercial real estate loans are originated as three-year
      and
      five-year adjustable rate loans with up to a 24-year amortization. To a
      substantially lesser extent, such loans are originated as fixed rate or balloon
      loans or at a floating rate based on national prime rate, at terms up to 15
      years. The adjustable rate loans are tied to an index based on the weekly
      average of the three-year or five-year U.S. Treasury rate, respectively, plus
      a
      stated margin over the index. Multi-family loans and commercial real estate
      loans have been written in amounts of up to 75% of the lesser of the appraised
      value of the property or the purchase price, and borrowers are generally
      personally liable for all or part of the indebtedness. 

Appraisals
      on properties securing multi-family and commercial real estate loans originated
      in excess of $100,000 by us are performed by independent appraisers designated
      by us at the time the loan is made and reviewed by management. In addition,
      our
      underwriting procedures generally require verification of the borrower s credit
      history, income and financial statements, banking relationships and income
      projections for the property. 

Multi-family
      and commercial real estate loans generally present a higher level of risk than
      loans secured by one- to four-family residences. This greater risk is due to
      several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number
      of
      loans and borrowers, the effects of general economic conditions on
      income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and
      monitoring these types of loans. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured
      by
      multi-family and commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the
      successful operation of the related real estate project. If the cash flow from
      the project is reduced (for example, if leases are not obtained or renewed,
      or a
      bankruptcy court modifies a lease term, or a major tenant is unable to fulfill
      its lease obligations), the borrower s ability to repay the loan may be
      impaired. 

Construction,
      Land and Land Development Lending  

We
      make
      construction loans to individuals for the construction of their residences
      as
      well as to builders and developers for the construction of one- to four-family
      residences, multi-family dwellings and commercial real estate projects. At
      December 31, 2005, substantially all of these loans were secured by property
      located within our primary market area. 

Construction
      loans to individuals for their residences typically run six to eight months
      and
      are generally structured to be converted to permanent loans at the end of the
      construction phase. These construction loans are fixed rate loans, with interest
      rates higher than those that we offer on one- to four-family loans. During
      the
      construction phase, the borrower pays interest only. Residential construction
      loans are underwritten pursuant to the same guidelines used for originating
      permanent residential loans. At December 31, 2005, we had $8.7 million of
      construction loans to borrowers intending to live in the properties upon
      completion of construction. 

Construction
      loans to builders of one- to four-family residences generally have terms of
      six
      to eight months and require the payment of interest only at a fixed rate for
      the
      loan term. We limit builders to one home construction loan at a time, but would
      consider requests for more than one if the homes are presold. At December 31,
      2005, we had $7.6 million of construction loans to builders of one- to
      four-family residences. 

8 

We
      make
      construction loans to builders of multi-family dwellings and commercial projects
      with terms up to one year and require payment of interest only at a fixed rate
      for the construction phase of the loan. These loans are generally structured
      to
      be converted to one of our permanent commercial loan products at the end of
      the
      construction phase. At December 31, 2005, we had $2.2 million of loans to
      finance the construction of multi-family dwellings and commercial
      projects. 

We
      also
      make loans to builders for the purpose of developing one- to four-family lots
      and residential condominium projects. These loans typically have terms of two
      to
      three years with interest rates tied to our base rate which is determined by
      a
      rate survey of a cross section of local banks. The maximum loan-to-value ratio
      is 75%. The principal in these loans is typically paid down as lots or units
      are
      sold. These loans may be structured as revolving lines of credit with maturities
      of generally two years or less. At December 31, 2005, we had $14.0 million
      of
      development loans to builders. We also make land acquisition loans. At December
      31, 2005, we had $3.6 million in loans secured by land. 

Construction
      and development loans are obtained principally through continued business from
      developers and builders who have previously borrowed from us, as well as
      referrals from existing customers and realtors, and walk-in customers. The
      application process includes a submission to us of accurate plans,
      specifications and costs of the project to be constructed/developed which are
      used as a basis to determine the appraised value of the subject property. Loans
      are based on the lesser of current appraised value and/or the cost of
      construction, which is the land plus the building. At December 31, 2005, our
      largest construction and development loan was a development loan for a
      residential subdivision for $3.6 million. 

Construction
      and land development loans generally present a higher level of risk than loans
      secured by one- to four-family residences. Because of the uncertainties inherent
      in estimating land development and construction costs and the market for the
      project upon completion, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately
      the
      total loan funds required to complete a project, the related loan-to-value
      ratios and the likelihood of ultimate success of the project. Construction
      and
      land development loans to borrowers other than owner-occupants also involve
      many
      of the same risks discussed above regarding multi-family and commercial real
      estate loans and tend to be more sensitive to general economic conditions than
      many other types of loans. We had four non-performing construction and
      development loans totaling $1.2 million at December 31, 2005. 

Consumer
      Lending  

We
      originate a variety of different types of consumer loans, including home equity
      loans, direct automobile loans, home improvement loans, credit card loans,
      deposit account loans and other secured and unsecured loans for household and
      personal purposes. Consumer loan terms vary according to the type and value
      of
      collateral, length of contract and creditworthiness of the borrower. The largest
      component of consumer lending is home equity loans which totaled $19.8 million
      or 5.82% of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2005. We are currently
      offering a revolving line of credit home equity loan on which the total
      commitment amount, when combined with the balance of the first mortgage lien
      and
      other priority liens, may not exceed 100% of the appraised value of the
      property, with a five-year term and minimum monthly payment requirement of
      interest only. At December 31, 2005, we had $18.4 million of unused credit
      available under our home equity line of credit program. 

Our
      underwriting standards for consumer loans include a determination of the
      applicant s payment history on other debts and the applicant s ability to meet
      existing obligations and payments on the proposed loan. Although
      creditworthiness of the applicant is of primary consideration, our underwriting
      process also includes a comparison of the value of the security, if any, in
      relation to the proposed loan amount. Consumer loans may entail greater credit
      risk than do residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of consumer
      loans which are unsecured or are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such
      as
      automobiles. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer
      loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan
      balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation.
      In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower s
      continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by
      adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal
      and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount
      which can be recovered on such loans. 

9 

Commercial
      Business Lending  

Our
      current commercial business lending activities encompass predominantly secured
      and unsecured lines of credit and loans secured by small business equipment
      and
      vehicles. At December 31, 2005, we had $7.0 million of unsecured loans and
      lines
      of credit outstanding (with $2.6 million of unused credit available) and $13.1
      million of loans and lines of credit (with $1.3 million of unused credit
      available) secured by inventory or accounts receivable, small business equipment
      and vehicles. 

Unlike
      residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the
      borrower s ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income
      and which are secured by real property the value of which tends to be more
      easily ascertainable, commercial business loans typically are made on the basis
      of the borrower s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower s
      business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial
      business loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business
      itself, which is likely to be dependent upon the general economic environment.
      Our commercial business loans are sometimes, but not always, secured by business
      assets. However, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time,
      may
      be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of
      the
      business. 

We
      recognize the increased risks associated with commercial business lending.
      Our
      commercial business lending policy emphasizes credit file documentation and
      analysis of the borrower s character, capacity to repay the loan, the adequacy
      of the borrower s capital and collateral as well as an evaluation of the
      industry conditions affecting the borrower. Analysis of the borrower s past,
      present and future cash flows is also an important aspect of our credit
      analysis. 

Loan
      Originations, Purchases and Sales  

Real
      estate loans are originated by our staff of salaried loan officers and our
      residential mortgage loan originators who receive applications from existing
      customers, walk-in customers, and referrals from realtors. While we originate
      both adjustable rate and fixed rate loans, our ability to originate loans is
      dependent upon the relative customer demand for loans in our market. Demand
      is
      affected by the interest-rate environment. Currently, the majority of conforming
      fixed rate residential mortgage loans with maturities of 15 years and over
      are
      originated for sale in the secondary market. Based on our interest rate risk
      considerations, we occasionally will keep fixed rate residential mortgage loans
      in our portfolio to generate income and to be available for substitution in
      the
      event a loan committed for sale fails to close as expected. These loans are
      sold
      either to Freddie Mac while we retain the servicing rights, or to a third party
      with servicing released. These loans are originated to satisfy customer demand
      and to generate fee income and are sold to achieve the goals of our
      asset/liability management program. 

When
      loans are sold to Freddie Mac, we retain the responsibility for collecting
      and
      remitting loan payments, inspecting the properties, making certain that
      insurance and real estate tax payments are made on behalf of borrowers, and
      otherwise servicing the loans. We receive a servicing fee for performing these
      services. We serviced mortgage loans for others totaling $157.6 million at
      December 31, 2005. 

In
      periods of rising interest rates, our ability to originate large dollar volumes
      of real estate loans may be substantially reduced or restricted, with a
      resultant decrease in related operating earnings. In addition, our ability
      to
      sell loans may substantially decrease as potential buyers reduce their
      purchasing activities. 

We
      occasionally purchase a limited amount of participation interests in real estate
      loans from other financial institutions outside our primary market area. We
      review and underwrite all loans to be purchased to insure that they meet our
      underwriting standards. 

10 

The
      following table shows our loan and mortgage-backed security origination,
      purchase, sale and repayment activities for the periods indicated. One- to
      four-family fixed rate loans include $0, $2.2 million and $1.3 million of loans
      originated during 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, which carry a fixed rate
      of
      interest for the initial five or seven years and then convert to a one-year
      adjustable rate of interest for the remaining term of the loan. 

11 

Asset
      Quality  

Loan
      payments are generally due the first day of each month. When a borrower fails
      to
      make a required payment on a loan, we attempt to cause the delinquency to be
      cured by contacting the borrower. In the case of residential loans, a late
      notice is sent for accounts seven or more days delinquent. If the delinquency
      is
      not cured by the 15th day, the borrower will be assessed a late charge.
      Additional written and oral contacts may be made with the borrower between
      20
      and 30 days after the due date. If the full scheduled payment on the loan is
      not
      received prior to the 1   st   
      day of
      the succeeding month, the loan is considered 30 days past due and more formal
      collection procedures may be instituted. If the delinquency continues for a
      period of 60 days, we usually send a default letter to the borrower and, after
      90 days, institute appropriate action to foreclose on the property. If
      foreclosed, the property is sold at public auction and we may purchase it.
      Delinquent consumer loans are handled in a similar manner. Our procedures for
      repossession and sale of consumer collateral are subject to various requirements
      under Indiana consumer protection laws. 

Delinquent
      Loans    .
      The
      following table sets forth information concerning delinquent loans at December
      31, 2005, in dollar amounts and as a percentage of each category of our loan
      portfolio. The amounts represent the total remaining principal balances of
      the
      related loans, rather than the actual payment amounts which are
      overdue. 

12 

Non-Performing
      Assets    .
      The
      table below sets forth the amounts and categories of non-performing assets.
      Interest income on loans is accrued over the term of the loans based upon the
      principal outstanding except where serious doubt exists as to the collectibility
      of a loan, in which case the accrual of interest is discontinued. The amounts
      shown do not reflect reserves set up against such assets. See   - Allowance for
      Loan Losses.  

For
      the
      year ended December 31, 2005, gross interest income which would have been
      recorded had the non-accruing loans been current in accordance with their
      original terms was $644, none of which was included in interest
      income. 

13 

Other
      Loans of Concern.    
      In
      addition to the non-performing assets set forth in the table above under the
      caption  Non-Performing Assets,  as of December 31, 2005, there was also an
      aggregate of $19.9 million in net book value of loans with respect to which
      past
      payment history of the borrowers may cause management to have doubts as to
      the
      ability of the borrowers to comply with present loan repayment terms and which
      may result in the future inclusion of such items in the non-performing asset
      categories. Included in the other loans of concern are (i) 122 loans to seven
      borrowers who each hold an average of 17 one- to four-family rental properties
      with a total outstanding balance of $9.6 million, where management has concerns
      about the ability of the borrowers to keep the rental properties leased and
      about the cash flow of the borrower; (ii) three loans to a single borrower
      with
      an outstanding balance of $3.6 million, consisting of one loan secured by
      commercial real estate and two unsecured loans where management has concerns
      about the cash flow of the borrower; and (iii) two loans to a single borrower
      with an outstanding balance of $1.7 million, secured by multi-family real estate
      where management has concerns about the ability of the borrowers to keep the
      rental properties leased and about the cash flow of the borrower. 

Classified
      Assets    .
      Federal
      regulations provide for the classification of loans and other assets, such
      as
      debt and equity securities considered by the Office of Thrift Supervision (the
       OTS ) to be of lesser quality, as  substandard,   doubtful  or  loss.  An asset
      is considered  substandard  if it is inadequately protected by the current net
      worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any.
       Substandard  assets include those characterized by the  distinct possibility 
that the insured institution will sustain  some loss  if the deficiencies are
      not corrected. Assets classified as  doubtful  have all of the weaknesses
      inherent in those classified  substandard,  with the added characteristic that
      the weaknesses present make  collection or liquidation in full,  on the basis of
      currently existing facts, conditions, and values,  highly questionable and
      improbable.  Assets classified as  loss  are those considered  uncollectible 
and of such little value that their continuance as assets without the
      establishment of a specific loss reserve is not warranted. Assets which do
      not
      currently expose the institution to sufficient risk to warrant classification
      in
      one of the aforementioned categories but possess weaknesses are required to
      be
      designated  special mention  by management. 

When
      an
      insured institution classifies problem assets as either substandard or doubtful,
      it may establish general allowances for loan losses in an amount deemed prudent
      by management. General allowances represent loss allowances which have been
      established to recognize the inherent risk associated with lending activities,
      but which, unlike specific allowances, have not been allocated to particular
      problem assets. When an insured institution classifies problem assets as  loss, 
it is required either to establish a specific allowance for losses equal to
      100%
      of that portion of the asset so classified or to charge off such amount. An
      institution s determination as to the classification of its assets and the
      amount of its valuation allowances is subject to review by the OTS and the
      FDIC,
      which may order the establishment of additional general or specific loss
      allowances. 

In
      connection with the filing of our periodic reports with the OTS and in
      accordance with our classification of assets policy, we regularly review the
      problem assets in our portfolio to determine whether any assets require
      classification in accordance with applicable regulations. At December 31, 2005,
      we had classified $20.6 million of our loans as substandard, $275,000 as
      doubtful and none as loss. At December 31, 2005, we had designated $2.0 million
      in loans as special mention. 

Allowance
      for Loan Losses    .
      We
      establish our provision for loan losses based on a systematic analysis of risk
      factors in the loan portfolio. The analysis includes consideration of
      concentrations of credit, past loss experience, current economic conditions,
      the
      amount and composition of the loan portfolio, estimated fair value of the
      underlying collateral, delinquencies, and other factors. We also consider the
      loss experience of similar portfolios in comparable lending markets as well
      as
      using the services of a consultant to assist in the evaluation of our growing
      commercial loan portfolio. On at least a quarterly basis, a formal analysis
      of
      the adequacy of the allowance is prepared and reviewed by management and the
      Board of Directors. This analysis serves as a point-in-time assessment of the
      level of the allowance and serves as a basis for provisions for loan
      losses. 

Our
      analysis of the loan portfolio begins by assigning each new loan a risk rating
      at the time the loan is originated, corresponding to one of ten risk categories.
      If the loan is a commercial credit, the borrower will also be assigned a rating.
      Adjustments are made to these ratings on a quarterly basis, based on the
      performance of the individual loan. Loans no longer performing as agreed are
      assigned a lower risk rating, eventually resulting in their being regarded
      as
      classified loans. A collateral re-evaluation form is completed on all classified
      loans, identifying expected losses, generally based on an analysis of the
      collateral securing those loans. A portion of the loan loss reserve is allocated
      to the classified loans in the amount identified as at risk. 

14 

Portions
      of the allowance are also allocated to non-classified loan portfolios which
      have
      been segregated into categories of loans having similar characteristics and
      similar inherent risk. These categories include loans on: one- to four-family
      owner-occupied properties, one- to four-family non-owner-occupied properties,
      multi-family rental properties, non-residential properties, land and land
      development projects, construction projects, second mortgages and home equity
      loans, unsecured commercial business loans, secured commercial business loans,
      and consumer loans. Factors considered in determining the percentage allocation
      for each category include: historical loss experience, underwriting standards,
      trends in property values, trends in delinquent and non-performing loans, and
      economic trends affecting our market. Although we believe we use the best
      information available to make such determinations, future adjustments to
      reserves may be necessary, and net income could be significantly affected,
      if
      circumstances differ substantially from the assumptions used in making the
      initial determinations. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Provision for
      Loan
      Losses.  

15 

The
      following table sets forth an analysis of our allowance for loan
      losses. 

16 

The
      allocation of our allowance for losses on loans at the dates indicated is
      summarized as follows: 

17 

Investment
      Activities  

      We
      must
      maintain minimum levels of securities that qualify as liquid assets under the
      OTS regulations. Liquidity may increase or decrease depending upon the
      availability of funds and comparative yields on investments in relation to
      the
      return on loans. Historically, we have maintained liquid assets at levels we
      believe adequate to meet the requirements of normal operations, including
      potential deposit outflows. Cash flow projections are regularly reviewed and
      updated to assure that adequate liquidity is maintained. At December 31, 2005
      our liquidity ratio, liquid assets as a percentage of net withdrawable savings
      deposits and current borrowings was 6.40%. Our level of liquidity is a result
      of
      management s asset/liability strategy. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis
      of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Asset/Liability Management 
and  - Liquidity and Capital Resources  in the Annual Report to Shareholders
      filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report. 

Federally
      chartered savings institutions have the authority to invest in various types
      of
      liquid assets, including United States Treasury obligations, securities of
      various federal agencies, certain certificates of deposit of insured banks
      and
      savings institutions, certain bankers  acceptances, repurchase agreements and
      federal funds. Subject to various restrictions, federally chartered savings
      institutions may also invest their assets in investment grade commercial paper
      and corporate debt securities and mutual funds whose assets conform to the
      investments that a federally chartered savings institution is otherwise
      authorized to make directly. 

Generally,
      we invest funds among various categories of investments and maturities based
      upon our asset/liability management policies, concern for the highest investment
      quality, liquidity needs and performance objectives. It is our general policy
      to
      purchase securities which are U.S. Government securities, investment grade
      municipal and corporate bonds, commercial paper, federal agency obligations
      and
      interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Home Loan Bank. 

18 

The
      following table sets forth the composition of our securities portfolio at the
      dates indicated. As of December 31, 2005, our investment portfolio did not
      contain securities of any issuer with an aggregate book value in excess of
      10%
      of our stockholders  equity, excluding those issued by the U.S. Government and
      its agencies. 

19 

The
      following table sets forth the composition and contractual maturities of our
      securities portfolio at December 31, 2005. Expected maturities will differ
      from
      contractual maturities because issuers have the right to call or prepay
      obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. At December 31, 2005,
      all of our securities were classified as available for sale and as such were
      reported at fair value. The weighted average yields on tax exempt obligations
      have been computed on a tax equivalent basis. 

Sources
      of Funds  

General    .
      Our
      primary sources of funds are deposits, repayment and prepayment of loans,
      interest earned on or maturation of investment securities and short-term
      investments, borrowings and funds provided from operations. 

Deposits.    
      We offer
      a variety of deposit accounts. Our deposits consist of passbook and statement
      savings accounts, money market accounts, NOW accounts and certificate accounts.
      In addition, we periodically solicit broker originated certificates of deposit
      when issues are available that meet our interest rate and liquidity needs.
      Brokered deposits at December 31, 2005 totaled $67.2 million. We rely primarily
      on competitive pricing policies, on-line and off-line advertising, and customer
      service to attract and retain these deposits. 

The
      flow
      of deposits is influenced significantly by general economic conditions, changes
      in money market and prevailing interest rates and competition. The variety
      of
      deposit accounts we offer has allowed us to be competitive in obtaining funds
      and to respond with flexibility to changes in consumer demand. We manage the
      pricing of our deposits in keeping with our asset/liability management,
      profitability and growth objectives. Based on our experience, we believe that
      our savings, interest and non-interest-bearing checking accounts are relatively
      stable sources of deposits. However, our ability to attract and maintain
      certificates of deposit, and the rates paid on these deposits, has been and
      will
      continue to be significantly affected by market conditions. 

20 

The
      following table sets forth our savings flows during the periods
      indicated. 

21 

The
      following table sets forth the dollar amount of savings deposits in the various
      types of deposit programs offered by us at the dates indicated. 

22 

The
      following table shows rate and maturity information for our certificates of
      deposit as of December 31, 2005. 

23 

The
      following table indicates the amount of our certificates of deposit by time
      remaining until maturity as of December 31, 2005:   

Borrowings.    
      Our
      other available sources of funds include borrowings from the Federal Home Loan
      Bank of Indianapolis and other borrowings. As a member of the Federal Home
      Loan
      Bank of Indianapolis, we are required to own capital stock in the Federal Home
      Loan Bank and are authorized to apply for borrowings from the Federal Home
      Loan
      Bank. Each Federal Home Loan Bank credit program has its own interest rate,
      which may be fixed or variable, and have a range of maturities. The Federal
      Home
      Loan Bank of Indianapolis may prescribe the acceptable uses for these funds,
      as
      well as limitations on the size of the borrowings and repayment
      provisions. 

We
      utilize Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings as part of our asset/liability
      management strategy in order to extend the maturity of our liabilities in a
      cost-effective manner. We may be required to pay a commitment fee upon
      application and may be subject to a prepayment fee if we prepay the advance.
      See
      Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the
      Annual Report to Shareholders attached as Exhibit 13 to this Annual
      Report. 

The
      following table sets forth the maximum month-end balance and average balance
      of
      Federal Home Loan Bank advances for the periods indicated. 

24 

The
      following table sets forth certain information as to the Federal Home Loan
      Bank
      advances at the dates indicated. 

Subsidiaries
      and Other Activities  

Lafayette
      Savings owns a service corporation, L.S.B. Service Corporation. In April 1994,
      Lafayette Savings made an initial investment of $51,000 in L.S.B. Service
      Corporation when it became a 14.16% limited partner in a low-income housing
      project in Lafayette, Indiana, pursuant to a 10-year commitment totaling
      $500,000. During 2005, L.S.B. Service Corporation received a $37,000 tax credit
      related to its investment in the project and recorded net losses of $43,000.
      At
      December 31, 2005, our total investment in L.S.B. Service Corporation was
      $519,000. 

Lafayette
      Savings formed Lafayette Insurance and Investments, Inc., an Indiana
      corporation, on December 31, 1996. Lafayette Insurance and Investments, Inc.
      began offering various insurance, annuity and investment products and services
      to our customers in June of 1997. At December 31, 2005, our total investment
      in
      Lafayette Insurance and Investments, Inc. was $23,000. During 2002, Lafayette
      Insurance and Investments, Inc. became inactive and remained so in
      2005. 

Competition  

We
      face
      strong competition, both in originating real estate and other loans and in
      attracting deposits. Competition in originating real estate loans comes
      primarily from other savings institutions, commercial banks, credit unions
      and
      mortgage bankers making loans secured by real estate located in Tippecanoe
      County, our primary market area. Other savings institutions, commercial banks,
      credit unions and finance companies provide vigorous competition in consumer
      lending. 

We
      attract the majority of our deposits through our branch offices, primarily
      from
      the communities in which those branch offices are located; therefore,
      competition for those deposits is principally from other savings institutions,
      commercial banks and credit unions located in the same communities as well
      as
      mutual funds and other financial intermediaries. We compete for these deposits
      by offering a variety of deposit accounts at competitive rates, convenient
      business hours and branch locations and Internet banking with interbranch
      deposit and withdrawal privileges. 

There
      are
      21 other savings institutions, credit unions and banks in our primary market
      area. We estimate our share of the savings market and mortgage loans in
      Tippecanoe County to be approximately 15%. 

Regulation  

General.    
      Lafayette Savings is a federally chartered savings bank, the deposits of which
      are federally insured and backed by the full faith and credit of the United
      States Government. Accordingly, we are subject to broad federal regulation,
      primarily by the OTS, and oversight extending to all of our operations.
      Lafayette Savings is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis
      and
      is subject to certain limited regulation by the Board of Governors of the
      Federal Reserve System. As the thrift holding company of Lafayette Savings,
      LSB
      Financial is also subject to federal regulation and    oversight
      by the OTS.  

25 

Insurance
      of Deposits    .
      On
      February 8, 2006, President Bush signed into law the Federal Deposit Insurance
      Reform Act of 2005. This statute reforms the deposit insurance system
      by: 

merging
                  the Bank Insurance Fund ( BIF ) and the Savings Association Insurance Fund
                  ( SAIF ) into a new Deposit Insurance Fund ( DIF ) no later than July 1,
                  2006; 

keeping
                  the insurance coverage limit for individual accounts and municipal
                  accounts at $100,000 but providing an inflation adjustment process,
                  which
                  permits an adjustment effective January 1, 2011 and every five
                  years
                  thereafter based on the Personal Consumption Expenditures Index
                  (with 2005
                  as the base year of comparison), unless the FDIC concludes such
                  adjustment
                  would be inappropriate for reasons relating to risks to the
                  DIF; 

increasing
                  insurance coverage limits for retirement accounts to $250,000,
                  subject to
                  the same inflation adjustment process described above; 

prohibiting
                  undercapitalized members from accepting employee benefit plan
                  deposits; 

providing
                  for the payment of credits based on a member's share of the assessment
                  base as of December 31, 1996 and equal to an aggregate of $4.7
                  billion for
                  all members, which credits can offset FDIC assessments subject
                  to certain
                  limits; 

providing
                  for the declaration of dividends to members (based on a member's
                  share of
                  the assessment base on December 31, 1996, and premiums paid after
                  that
                  date) equal to 50% of the amount in the DIF in excess of a reserve
                  ratio
                  of 1.35% and 100% of such amount in excess of a reserve ratio of
                  1.5%,
                  subject to the FDIC's right to suspend or limit dividends based
                  on risks
                  to the DIF; and 

eliminating
                  the mandatory assessment (up to 23 basis points) that applied if
                  the DIF
                  fell below 1.25% of insured deposits and in its place establishing
                  a new
                  assessment system based on risk, needs of the DIF, and the effect
                  on the
                  members' capital and earnings. The FDIC will set a reserve ratio
                  of
                  between 1.15% and 1.5% and will have five years to restore the
                  DIF if the
                  ratio falls below 1.15%. 

The
      discussion below describes the deposit insurance system in effect prior to
      the
      new legislation. 

Deposit
      Insurance   .
      The
      FDIC is an independent federal agency that insures the deposits, up to
      prescribed statutory limits, of banks and thrifts and safeguards the safety
      and
      soundness of the banking and thrift industries. The FDIC administers two
      separate insurance funds, the BIF for commercial banks and state savings banks
      and the SAIF for savings associations such as the Bank, and for banks that
      have
      acquired deposits from savings associations. The FDIC is required to maintain
      designated levels of reserves in each fund. 

Assessments   .
      The
      FDIC is authorized to establish separate annual assessment rates for deposit
      insurance for members of the BIF and members of the SAIF. The FDIC may increase
      assessment rates for either fund if necessary to restore the fund's ratio of
      reserves to insured deposits to the target level within a reasonable time and
      may decrease these rates if the target level has been met. The FDIC s deposit
      insurance premiums are assessed through a risk-based system under which all
      insured depository institutions are placed into one of nine categories and
      assessed insurance premiums based upon their level of capital and supervisory
      evaluation. The current assessment rates range from zero to 0.27% per $100
      of
      assessable deposits. FDIC-insured institutions are subject to assessments to
      repay obligations issued by a federally chartered corporation to provide
      financing for resolving the thrift crisis in the 1980 s. By law, payments on
      these obligations have been shared equally between BIF members and SAIF members
      since January 1, 2000. During 2005, quarterly payments for SAIF and BIF
      members averaged 1.385 basis points. For the first quarter of 2006, the rate
      established by the FDIC for this purpose is 1.32 basis points per dollar of
      SAIF
      deposits and BIF deposits. 

Federal
      Regulation of Savings Associations.    
      The OTS
      has extensive authority over the operations of savings institutions. As part
      of
      this authority, we are required to file periodic reports with the OTS and are
      subject to periodic examinations by the OTS and the FDIC. 

The
      OTS
      also has extensive enforcement authority over all savings institutions and
      their
      holding companies. This enforcement authority includes, among other things,
      the
      ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease-and-desist or removal
      orders and to initiate injunctive actions. 

26 

Lafayette
      Savings  general permissible lending limit for loans to one borrower is equal to
      the greater of $500,000 or 15% of unimpaired capital and surplus, except for
      loans fully secured by certain readily marketable collateral, in which case
      this
      limit is increased to 25% of unimpaired capital and surplus. At December 31,
      2005, our lending limit under this restriction was $5.1 million. 

Regulatory
      Capital Requirements    .
      To be
      considered adequately capitalized, under the prompt corrective action
      regulations, a savings association must maintain the following capital ratios:
      a
      leverage ratio (the ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets) of at least 4%
      (unless its supervisory condition allows a 3% ratio), a Tier 1 risk-based ratio
      (the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets) of at least 4%, and a
      total risk-based capital ratio (the ratio of total capital to risk-weighted
      assets) of at least 8%. Total capital consists of Tier 1 and Tier 2
      capital. 

Tier
      1
      capital generally consists of common stockholders  equity, noncumulative
      perpetual preferred stock and other tangible capital plus certain intangible
      assets, including a limited amount of purchased credit card receivables. Tier
      2
      capital consists generally of certain permanent and maturing capital instruments
      and allowances for loan and lease losses up to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets.
      When determining total capital, Tier 2 capital may not exceed Tier 1 capital.
      At
      December 31, 2005, we had no intangible assets which were included in Tier
      1
      capital, other than mortgage servicing rights of $1.3 million. 

To
      determine the amount of risk-weighted assets, all assets, including certain
      off-balance sheet items, will be multiplied by a risk weight, ranging from
      0% to
      100%, based on the risk inherent in the type of asset. For example, the OTS
      has
      assigned a risk weight of 50% for prudently underwritten permanent one- to
      four-family first lien mortgage loans not more than 90 days delinquent and
      having a loan-to-value ratio of not more than 90% at origination unless insured
      to such ratio by an insurer approved by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. 

To
      be
      considered well capitalized, a savings association must have a leverage ratio
      of
      at least 5%, a Tier 1 risk-based ratio of at least 6% and a total risk-based
      capital ratio of 10%. As of December 31, 2005, Lafayette Savings qualified
      as
      well capitalized, with a leverage ratio of 8.4%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital
      ratio of 10.8% and a total risk-based capital ratio of 11.7%. The OTS may
      reclassify a savings association in a lower capital category or require it
      to
      hold additional capital based upon supervisory concerns on a case-by-case
      basis. 

Under
      the
      prompt corrective action regulations, the OTS and the FDIC are authorized,
      and
      under certain circumstances required, to take certain actions against a savings
      association that is not at least adequately capitalized. Such an association
      must submit a capital restoration plan and, until the plan is approved by the
      OTS, may not increase its assets, acquire another institution, establish a
      branch or engage in any new activities, and generally may not make capital
      distributions. For a savings association controlled by a holding company, the
      capital restoration plan must include a guarantee by the holding company limited
      to the lesser of 5% of the association s assets when it failed the  adequately
      capitalized  standard or the amount needed to satisfy the plan, and, in the
      event of the bankruptcy of the holding company, the guaranty would have priority
      over the claims of general creditors. Additional and more stringent restrictions
      may be applicable, depending on the financial condition of the association
      and
      other circumstances. If an association becomes critically undercapitalized,
      because it has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets of 2% or less,
      appointment of a receiver or conservator may be required. 

Limitations
      on Dividends and Other Capital Distributions    .
      OTS
      regulations impose various restrictions on savings institutions with respect
      to
      their ability to make distributions of capital, which include dividends, stock
      redemptions or repurchases, cash-out mergers and other transactions charged
      to
      the capital account. 

A
      savings
      association that is a subsidiary of a holding company, such as Lafayette
      Savings, may make a capital distribution with prior notice to the OTS, in an
      amount that does not exceed its net income for the calendar year-to-date plus
      retained net income for the previous two calendar years (less any dividends
      previously paid) if the savings association has a regulatory rating in the
      two
      top examination categories, is not of supervisory concern, and would remain
      well-capitalized following the proposed distribution. All other institutions
      or
      those seeking to exceed the noted amounts must obtain approval from the OTS
      for
      a capital distribution before making the distribution. 

Qualified
      Thrift Lender Test    .
      All
      savings institutions are required to meet a qualified thrift lender test to
      avoid certain restrictions on their operations. This test requires a savings
      institution to have at least 65% of its portfolio assets in qualified thrift
      investments on a monthly average for nine out of every 12 months on a rolling
      basis. As an alternative, the savings institution may maintain 60% of its assets
      in those assets specified in Section 7701(a)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code
      of
      1986, as amended. Under either test, these assets primarily consist of
      residential housing related loans and investments. At December 31, 2005,
      Lafayette Savings met the test. 

27 

Any
      savings institution that fails to meet the qualified thrift lender test must
      either convert to a national bank or restrict its branching rights, new
      activities and investments and dividends to those permissible for a national
      bank. If the institution has not requalified or converted to a national bank
      within three years after the failure, it must sell all investments and stop
      all
      activities not permissible for a national bank. If any institution that fails
      the qualified thrift lender test is controlled by a holding company, then within
      one year after the failure, the holding company must register as a bank holding
      company and become subject to all restrictions on bank holding
      companies. 

Transactions
      with Affiliates.    
      Generally, transactions between a savings association or its subsidiaries and
      its affiliates are required to be on terms as favorable to the association
      as
      transactions with non-affiliates. In addition, certain of these transactions,
      such as loans to an affiliate, are restricted to a percentage of the
      association s capital and are subject to collateralization requirements.
      Affiliates of Lafayette Savings include LSB Financial and any company which
      is
      under common control with Lafayette Savings. In addition, a savings association
      may not lend to any affiliate engaged in activities not permissible for a bank
      holding company or acquire the securities of an affiliate. The OTS has the
      discretion to further restrict transactions of a savings association with an
      affiliate on a case-by-case basis. 

Community
      Reinvestment Act    .
      Under
      the Community Reinvestment Act, every FDIC insured institution has a continuing
      and affirmative obligation consistent with safe and sound banking practices
      to
      help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and
      moderate-income neighborhoods. The Community Reinvestment Act requires the
      OTS,
      in connection with our examination, to assess our record of meeting the credit
      needs of our community and to take this record into account in its evaluation
      of
      certain applications, such as a merger or the establishment of a branch, by
      Lafayette Savings. An unsatisfactory rating may be used as the basis for the
      denial of an application by the OTS. We were examined for Community Reinvestment
      Act compliance in 2004 and received a rating of  Outstanding.  

Holding
      Company Regulation    .
      LSB
      Financial is a unitary savings and loan holding company subject to regulatory
      oversight by the OTS. LSB Financial is required to register and file reports
      with the OTS and is subject to regulation and examination by the OTS. In
      addition, the OTS has enforcement authority over us and our non-savings
      institution subsidiaries. 

LSB
      Financial generally is not subject to activity restrictions. If LSB Financial
      acquired control of another savings institution as a separate subsidiary, it
      would become a multiple savings and loan holding company, and its activities
      and
      any of its subsidiaries (other than Lafayette Savings or any other savings
      institution) would generally become subject to additional
      restrictions. 

USA
      PATRIOT Act of 2001    .
      On
      October 26, 2001, President Bush signed the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the
 PATRIOT Act ). The PATRIOT Act, among other things, is intended to strengthen
      the ability of U.S. law enforcement to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts.
        The
      PATRIOT Act contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency
      laws and requires financial institutions to implement additional policies and
      procedures with respect to, or additional measures designed to address, any
      or
      all the following matters, among others: money laundering, suspicious activities
      and currency transaction reporting, and currency crimes. Many of the provisions
      in the PATRIOT Act were to have expired December 31, 2005, but the U.S. Congress
      authorized renewals that extended the provisions until March 10, 2006. In early
      March 2006, the U.S. Congress approved the USA PATRIOT Improvement and
      Reauthorization Act of 2005 (the  Reauthorization Act ) and the USA PATRIOT Act
      Additional Reauthorizing Amendments Act of 2006 (the  PATRIOT Act Amendments ),
      and they were signed into law by President Bush on March 9, 2006. The
      Reauthorization Act makes permanent all but two of the provisions that had
      been
      set to expire and provides that the remaining two provisions, which relate
      to
      surveillance and the production of business records under the Foreign
      Intelligence Surveillance Act, will expire in four years. The PATRIOT Act
      Amendments include provisions allowing recipients of certain subpoenas to obtain
      judicial review of nondisclosure orders and clarifying the use of certain
      subpoenas to obtain information from libraries. We do not anticipate that these
      changes will materially affect its operations. 

Sarbanes-Oxley
      Act of 2002     .   
      On July
      30, 2002, President Bush signed into law the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the
       Sarbanes-Oxley Act ). The Sarbanes-Oxley Act s stated goals include enhancing
      corporate responsibility, increasing penalties for accounting and auditing
      improprieties at publicly traded companies and protecting investors by improving
      the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures pursuant to the securities
      laws. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act generally applies to all companies that file or
      are
      required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the Securities Exchange
      Act
      of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). 

28 

Among
      other things, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act creates the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board as an independent body subject to SEC supervision with
      responsibility for setting auditing, quality control and ethical standards
      for
      auditors of public companies. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires public
      companies to make faster and more extensive financial disclosures, requires
      the
      chief executive officer and chief financial officer of public companies to
      provide signed certifications as to the accuracy and completeness of financial
      information filed with the SEC, and provides enhanced criminal and civil
      penalties for violations of the federal securities laws. 

The
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act also addresses functions and responsibilities of audit
      committees of public companies. The statute makes the audit committee directly
      responsible for the appointment, compensation and oversight of the work of
      the
      company s outside auditor, and requires the auditor to report directly to the
      audit committee. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act authorizes each audit committee to
      engage independent counsel and other advisors, and requires a public company
      to
      provide the appropriate funding, as determined by its audit committee, to pay
      the company s auditors and any advisors that its audit committee retains. The
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires public companies to include an internal control
      report and assessment by management, along with an attestation to this report
      prepared by the company s registered public accounting firm, in their annual
      reports to stockholders. 

Although
      LSB Financial will incur additional expense in complying with the provisions
      of
      the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the resulting regulations, management does not expect
      that such compliance will have a material impact on LSB Financial s results of
      operations or financial condition. 

Federal
      and State Taxation  

Federal
      Taxation    .
      Savings
      institutions that meet certain definitional tests relating to the composition
      of
      assets and other conditions prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
      as
      amended, are permitted to establish reserves for bad debts and to make annual
      additions which may, within specified formula limits, be taken as a deduction
      in
      computing taxable income for federal income tax purposes. The amount of the
      bad
      debt reserve deduction is computed under the experience method. 

In
      addition to the regular income tax, corporations, including savings
      institutions, generally are subject to a minimum tax. An alternative minimum
      tax
      is imposed at a minimum tax rate of 20% on alternative minimum taxable income,
      which is the sum of a corporation s regular taxable income (with certain
      adjustments) and tax preference items, less any available exemption. The
      alternative minimum tax is imposed to the extent it exceeds the corporation s
      regular income tax and net operating losses can offset no more than 90% of
      alternative minimum taxable income. 

A
      portion
      of our reserves for losses on loans which are presented on the statement of
      financial condition of retained earnings, may not, without adverse tax
      consequences, be utilized for the payment of cash dividends or other
      distributions to a shareholder, including distributions on redemption,
      dissolution or liquidation, or for any other purpose except to absorb bad debt
      losses. As of December 31, 2005, the portion of our reserves subject to this
      treatment for tax purposes totaled approximately $1.9 million. We file
      consolidated federal income tax returns with our subsidiaries on a calendar
      year
      basis using the accrual method of accounting. We have not been audited by the
      IRS during the last five fiscal years. 

Indiana
      Taxation    .
      The
      State of Indiana imposes an 8.5% franchise tax on corporations transacting
      the
      business of a financial institution in Indiana. Included in the definition
      of
      corporations transacting the business of a financial institution in Indiana
      are
      holding companies of thrift institutions, as well as thrift institutions. Net
      income for franchise tax purposes will constitute federal taxable income before
      net operating loss deductions and special deductions, adjusted for certain
      items, including Indiana income taxes and bad debts. Other applicable Indiana
      taxes include sales, use and property taxes. 

Employees  

At
      December 31, 2005, we had a total of 91 employees, including 4 part-time
      employees. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining group.
      Management considers its employee relations to be good. 

29 

Item
                1A.  

Risk
                Factors  

Investors
      should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which
      are
      some of the factors that could materially adversely affect our operating results
      and financial condition. The risks and uncertainties described below are not
      necessarily the only ones that we may face. 

Changes
      in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and
      results of operations.  

Our
      results of operations depend primarily on the levels of net interest income,
      which is the difference between the interest income earned on loans and
      securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest expense on
      deposits and borrowed funds. Net interest income is dependent upon the volume
      of
      interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and upon the interest
      rate which is earned or paid on these items. 

We
      are
      subject to interest rate risk to the degree that our interest-bearing
      liabilities mature or reprice at different times, or on a different basis,
      than
      our interest-earning assets. Rising rates generally increase borrower preference
      for variable rate products which we typically keep in our portfolio.
      Additionally, existing adjustable rate loans can be expected to reprice to
      higher rates, both of which could be expected to have a favorable impact on
      interest income. Alternatively, continuing low interest rates could have a
      negative impact on our interest income as new loans are put on the books at
      comparatively low rates and our existing adjustable rate loans reprice to lower
      rates. 

While
      we
      attempt to adjust our asset/liability mix in order to limit the magnitude of
      interest rate risk, interest rate risk management is not an exact science.
      Rather, it involves estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest
      rates will impact the yields earned on assets and the rates paid on liabilities.
      Moreover, rate changes can vary depending upon the level of rates and
      competitive factors. Further discussion of interest rate risk can be found
      under
      the caption  Asset/Liability Management  in the Management s Discussion and
      Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of LSB
      Financial s 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders. 

The
      preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that
      may
      vary from actual results.  

The
      preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
      principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
      management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements.
      One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan
      losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide
      absolute assurance that we will not have to increase the allowance for loan
      losses and/or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the
      provided allowance. While management attempts to provide an allowance for loan
      losses at a level adequate to cover probable incurred losses based on loan
      portfolio growth, past loss experience, general economic conditions, information
      about specific borrower situations, and other factors, future adjustments to
      reserves may become necessary, and net income could be significantly affected,
      if circumstances differ substantially from assumptions used with respect to
      such
      factors. Additionally, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of
      their
      examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These
      agencies may require the recognition of additions to the allowance based upon
      their judgments of information available at the time of their
      examination. 

An
      economic slowdown in Tippecanoe County could affect our
      business.  

Our
      primary market area for deposits and loans is Tippecanoe County, Indiana. An
      economic slowdown in this area could hurt our business. Possible consequences
      of
      such a downturn could include the following: 

increases
                  in loan delinquencies and foreclosures; 

declines
                  in the value of real estate and other collateral for loans;
                  and 

a
                  decline in the demand for our products and services. 

30 

We
      are subject to extensive regulation which limit the manner and scope of our
      business activities.  

Our
      operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local
      governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and
      administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on them.
      Policies adopted or required by these governmental authorities can affect our
      business operations and the availability, growth and distribution of Lafayette
      Savings' investments, borrowings and deposits. In addition, the OTS periodically
      conducts examinations of LSB Financial and Lafayette Savings and may impose
      various requirements or sanctions. See  Regulation  in the description of our
      Business in Item 1 above for detailed information on the laws and regulations
      to
      which we are subject. 

Changes
      in laws, regulations and policies could adversely affect our
      business.  

Proposals
      to change the laws governing financial institutions are frequently raised in
      Congress and before bank regulatory authorities. Changes in applicable laws
      or
      policies could materially affect our business, and the likelihood of any major
      changes in the future and their effects are impossible to determine. Moreover,
      it is impossible to predict the ultimate form any proposed legislation might
      take or how it might affect us. 

Our
      increased emphasis on short-term or adjustable rate multi-family, commercial
      real estate and land development lending and commercial business and consumer
      lending may expose us to increased credit risk.  

One
      of
      the greatest risks facing lenders is credit risk, that is, the risk of losing
      principal and interest due to a borrower s failure to perform according to the
      terms of a loan agreement. At December 31, 2005, $141.5 million, or 41.65%,
      of
      our total loan portfolio consisted of multi-family, commercial real estate
      and
      land development loans. Multi-family, commercial real estate and land
      development loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than one-
      to
      four-family loans because they typically have large balances and are more
      affected by adverse conditions in the economy. Because payments on land
      development loans, loans secured by multi-family properties and commercial
      real
      estate often depend upon the successful operation and management of the
      properties and the business which operate from within them, repayment of such
      loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower s control, such as adverse
      conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government
      regulation. 

At
      December 31, 2005, $20.2 million, or 5.94% of our total loan portfolio consisted
      of commercial loans. Commercial loans generally have greater credit risk than
      residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on
      the
      successful business operations of the borrowers. These loans also typically
      have
      much larger loan balances than residential mortgage loans. 

At
      December 31, 2005, $22.6 million, or 6.66% of our total loan portfolio consisted
      of consumer loans. Consumer loans generally involve greater risk than
      residential mortgage loans because they are unsecured or secured by assets
      that
      depreciate in value. Although we undertake a variety of underwriting, monitoring
      and reserving protections with respect to these types of loans, there can be
      no
      guarantee that we will not suffer unexpected losses. we have diversified our
      portfolio by increasing our emphasis on the origination of short-term or
      adjustable rate multi-family and commercial real estate loans and commercial
      business and consumer loans. 

Competition
      in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits
      and obtain loans.  

We
      operate in a competitive market for both originating real estate and other
      loans
      and attracting deposits. Competition in originating real estate loans comes
      primarily from other savings institutions, commercial banks, credit unions
      and
      mortgage bankers making loans secured by real estate located in our primary
      market area. Other savings institutions, commercial banks, credit unions and
      finance companies provide vigorous competition in consumer lending. In addition,
      non-bank competitors are generally not subject to the extensive regulation
      applicable to us. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit
      our
      future growth and earnings prospects. 

Item
      1B.        Unresolved
      Staff Comments    

Not
      Applicable. 

31 

Item
      2.              Properties  

We
      conduct our business at our main office and four other locations in Lafayette
      and West Lafayette, Indiana. We own our main office and three branch offices.
      The fourth branch office is leased with the term of the lease expiring in 2009.
      The total net book value of our premises and equipment (including land, building
      and leasehold improvements and furniture, fixtures and equipment) at December
      31, 2005 was approximately $6.8 million. We have also purchased an office
      building adjacent to the main office location as our growth rate has required
      space for additional personnel and will for the next few years. 

We
      maintain an on-line database of depositor and borrower customer information.
      The
      net book value of our data processing, computer equipment and software at
      December 31, 2005 was $268,000. 

Item
      3.          Legal
      Proceedings  

We
      are,
      from time to time, involved as plaintiff or defendant in various legal actions
      arising in the normal course of business. While the ultimate outcome of these
      proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, it is the opinion of management,
      after consultation with counsel representing us in the proceedings, that the
      resolution of any prior and pending proceedings should not have a material
      effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 

Item
      4.          Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

No
      matter
      was submitted to a vote of security holders, through the solicitation of proxies
      or otherwise, during the quarter ended December 31, 2005. 

Item
      4.       5             Executive
      Officers of the Registrant  

The
      executive officers of LSB Financial are identified below. The executive officers
      are elected annually by the Board of Directors of LSB Financial. 

Randolph
      F. Williams (age 57).   
      Mr.
      Williams is President and Chief Executive Officer of LSB Financial and its
      wholly-owned subsidiary, Lafayette Savings. Mr. Williams was appointed to the
      Board of Directors of LSB Financial in September 2001. He was appointed
      President of LSB Financial in September 2001 and Chief Executive Officer in
      January 2002. Mr. Williams served as President and Chief Operating Officer
      of
      Delaware Place Bank in Chicago, Illinois from 1996 until joining LSB Financial.
      Mr. Williams has over 25 years of banking-related experience. 

Mary
      Jo David (age 56).   
      Ms.
      David is Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of LSB Financial
      and Lafayette Savings. She has held these positions with the Company since
      its
      formation in 1994 and with Lafayette Savings since 1992 and was elected a
      Director of LSB Financial and Lafayette Savings in 1999. 

Harry
      A. Dunwoody (age 59).   
      Mr.
      Dunwoody has served as Senior Vice President of Lafayette Savings since 1989
      and
      was elected as a Director of the Bank in 1993. He has held the same positions
      with the Company since its formation in 1994. He is responsible for residential
      and consumer lending originations for the bank. 

32 

PART
      II  

Item
      5.       Market
      for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
      Securities  

(a)     We
      have
      not sold any equity securities during the period covered by this report that
      were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933. Additionally, the page
      62
      of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders attached to this document as Exhibit
      13 is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, the  Equity Compensation
      Plan Information  contained in Part III, Item 12 of this Form 10-K is
      incorporated herein by reference. 

(b)     We
      have
      no information to furnish pursuant to Rule 463 of the Securities Act of 1933
      and
      Item 701(f) of Regulation S-K. 

(c)     The
      following table sets forth the number and price paid for repurchased shares.

(1) 

There
                  were no shares repurchased other than through a publicly announced
                  plan or
                  program. 

(2) 

We
                  have in place a plan, announced September 27, 2004, to repurchase
                  5% of
                  our common stock. 

33 

Item
      6.          Selected
      Financial Data  

The
      material under the heading  Selected Financial Information  on pages 2 and 3 of
      our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders attached to this document as Exhibit
      13
      is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item
      7.             Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations  

Pages
      4
      through 22 of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders attached to this document
      as Exhibit 13 are incorporated herein by reference. 

Item
                7A.  

Quantitative
                and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
                Risk  

Pages
      22
      and 23 of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders attached to this document
      as
      Exhibit 13 are incorporated herein by reference. 

Item
      8.             Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data  

Pages
      28
      and 30 through 58 of our 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders attached to this
      document as Exhibit 13 are incorporated herein by reference. 

Item
      9.             Changes
      in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure  

On
      August
      19, 2004, our Audit Committee engaged the accounting firm of BKD, LLP to examine
      the consolidated financial statements of Lafayette Savings as of and for the
      year ended December 31, 2004, and advised our Board of Directors of this
      decision. Crowe Chizek and Company LLC ( Crowe Chizek ), which had acted as the
      independent public accountants for Lafayette Savings since 1994 was notified
      on
      August 19, 2004 of the Audit Committee s decision to engage BKD,
      LLP. 

The
      audit
      reports issued by Crowe Chizek, with respect to our consolidated financial
      statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003, did not contain
      an
      adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, and were not qualified as to
      uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles. During the year ended
      December 31, 2003 (and any subsequent interim period), there had been no
      disagreements between us and Crowe Chizek on any matter of accounting principles
      or practices, financial statement disclosure or auditing scope or procedure,
      which disagreements, if not resolved to the satisfaction of Crowe Chizek would
      have caused us to make a reference to the subject matter of the disagreement
      in
      connection with its audit report. Moreover, none of the events listed in Item
      304(a)(1)(iv) of Regulation S-K occurred during the year ended December 31,
      2003, or any subsequent interim period. 

Prior
      to
      its engagement, we had not consulted BKD, LLP as to the application of
      accounting principles to a specific completed or contemplated transaction or
      the
      type of audit opinion that might be rendered on our financial
      statements. 

Item
      9A.             Controls
      and
      Procedures  

An
      evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Sections
      13(a)-15(e) and 15(d)-15(e) of the regulations promulgated under the Exchange
      Act), as of December 31, 2005 (the  Evaluation Date ), was carried out under the
      supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief
      Financial Officer and several other members of our senior management. Our Chief
      Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure
      controls and procedures in effect as of the Evalutaion Date are effective in
      ensuring that the information required to be disclosed by us in the reports
      we
      file or submit under the Act is (i) accumulated and communicated to our
      management (including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer)
      in a timely manner and (ii) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
      the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms. There have been no
      changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule
      13a-15(f) of the Act) identified in connection with our evaluation of controls
      that   
      occurred
      during the quarter ended December 31, 2005, that have materially affected,
      or
      are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over the
      financial reporting.  

34 

Item
      9B.             Other
      Information  

We
      have
      no information that was required to be reported on a Form 8-K in the fourth
      quarter covered by this 10-K, but was not reported on a Form 8-K during the
      fourth quarter. 

35 

PART
      III  

Item
      10.             Directors
      and
      Executive Officers of the Registrant  

(a)       Directors
      and Executive Officers  

Information
      concerning LSB Financial directors is incorporated herein by reference to the
      sections of the definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders to be held in April 2006 under the caption  Proposal I - Election
      of Directors.  Information concerning LSB Financial executive officers is
      included in Item 4.5 in Part I of this report. 

(b)       Compliance
      with Section 16(a)  

Section
      16(a) of the Exchange Act requires our directors and executive officers and
      persons who own more than 10% of a registered class of our equity securities,
      to
      file with the SEC initial reports of ownership and reports of changes in
      ownership of our common stock and our other equity securities by the end of
      the
      second business day following a change. Officers, directors and greater than
      10%
      stockholders are required by SEC regulation to furnish us with copies of all
      Section 16(a) forms they file. 

To
      our
      knowledge, based solely on a review of the copies of such reports furnished
      to
      us and written representations that no other reports were required, during
      the
      fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, all Section 16(a) filing requirements
      applicable to our officers, directors and 10% beneficial owners were complied
      with except as disclosed in our definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual
      Meeting of Shareholders to be held in April 2006 under the caption  Share
      Ownership of LSB Financial Common Stock - Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
      Reporting Compliance  incorporated herein by reference. 

Item
      11.          Executive
      Compensation  

Information
      concerning executive compensation is incorporated herein by reference to the
      section of our definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
      to be held in April 2006 with the caption  Executive Compensation.  

Item
      12.             Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
      Matters  

Information
      concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is
      incorporated herein by reference to the section of our definitive Proxy
      Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held in April 2006 with
      the caption  Share Ownership of LSB Financial Common Stock - Stock Ownership of
      Significant Shareholders.  

36 

Equity
      Compensation Plan Information     .   
      The
      following table summarizes our equity compensation plans as of December 31,
      2005. 

Plan
                Category 

Number
                of securities to 

                be
                issued upon exercise 

                of
                outstanding options 

                warrants
                and rights  

                (a) 

Weighted-average 

                exercise
                price of 

                outstanding
                options 

                warrants
                and rights  

                (b) 

Number
                of Securities 

                remaining
                available for 

                future
                issuance under 

                equity
                compensation plans  

                (excluding
                securities reflected in  

                column
                (a)) 

                (c) 

Equity
                compensation plans approved by security holders 

47,373(1) 

18.72(2) 

0 

Equity
                compensation plans not approved by security holders 

--- 

--- 

--- 

(1) 

Includes
                45,373 shares under LSB Financial Corp. s Stock Option and Incentive Plan
                and 2,000 shares under LSB Financial Corp. s Recognition and Retention
                Plan. 

(2) 

The
                total in Column (b) includes only the weighted-average price of stock
                options, as the restricted shares awarded under the Recognition and
                Retention Plan have no exercise
                price. 

Item
      13.          Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions  

Information
      concerning certain relationships and transactions is incorporated herein by
      reference to the section of our definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual
      Meeting of Shareholders to be held in April 2006 with the caption  Certain
      Transactions.  

Item
      14.          Principal
      Accountant Fees and Services  

Information
      concerning principal accountant fees and services are incorporated herein by
      reference to the section of our definitive proxy statement for the Annual
      Meeting of Shareholders to be held in April 2006 with the caption  Relationship
      with Independent Auditors.  

37 

PART
      IV  

Item
      15.          Exhibits,
      Financial Statement Schedules  

(a)         The
      following documents
      are filed as part of this report: 

(b)         The
      exhibits filed herewith or incorporated by reference herein are set forth on
      the
      Exhibit Index. 

38 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
        to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
        of
        1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
        by
        the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

LSB
                  FINANCIAL COP. 

Date: 

March
                30, 2006 

By: 

/s/
 Randolph
                F. Williams  

Randolph
                  F. Williams, President, 

Chief
                  Executive Officer and Director 

(Duly
                  Authorized Representative) 

Pursuant
        to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
        been
        signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
        the
        capacities and on the dates indicated. 

/s/
 Mariellen
                M. Neudeck  
                 
               /s/
 Randolph
                F. Williams  

Mariellen
                  M. Neudeck, Chairman of the Board 

Randolph
                  F. Williams, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

                  (Principal
                  Executive and Operating Officer) 

Date:

March
                30, 2006 

Date: 

March
                30, 2006 

/s/
 Harry
                A. Dunwoody  
                 
               /s/
 James
                A. Andrew  

Harry
                  A. Dunwoody, Senior Vice President and Director 

James
                  A. Andrew, Director 

Date: 

March
                30, 2006 

Date: 

March
                30, 2006 

/s/
 Philip
                W. Kemmer  
                 
               /s/
 Peter
                Neisel  

Philip
                  W. Kemmer, Director 

Peter
                  Neisel, Director 

Date: 

March
                30, 2006 

Date: 

March
                30, 2006 

/s/
 Jeffrey
                A. Poxon  
                 
                /s/
                Thomas R. McCully  

Jeffrey
                  A. Poxon, Director 

Thomas
                  R. McCully, Director 

Date: 

March
                30, 2006 

Date: 

March
                30, 2006 

/s/
 Mary
                Jo David  
                 
               /s/
 Kenneth
                P. Burns  

Mary
                  Jo David, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary-Treasurer
                  and
                  Director 

                  (Principal
                  Financial and Accounting Officer) 

Kenneth
                  P. Burns, Director 

Date: 

March
                30, 2006 

Date: 

March
                30, 2006 

39 

INDEX
        TO EXHIBITS  

E-1

<EX-10.1>
 2
 lsb_10k101.htm
 1995 STOCK OPTION AND INCENTIVE PLAN

1995 Stock Option and Incentive Plan

Exhibit
      10.1  

LSB
      FINANCIAL CORP.  

       1995
      STOCK OPTION AND INCENTIVE PLAN  

1.      Plan
      Purpose .    The
      purpose of the Plan is to promote the long-term interests of the Corporation
      and
      its stockholders by providing a means for attracting and retaining directors,
      officers and employees of the Corporation and its Affiliates. It is intended
      that designated Options granted pursuant to the provisions of this Plan to
      persons employed by the Corporation or its Affiliates will qualify as Incentive
      Stock Options. Options granted to persons who are not employees will be
      Non-Qualified Stock Options. 

2.      Definitions . 
        The
      following definitions are applicable to the Plan: 

Affiliate 
      - means any  parent corporation  or  subsidiary corporation  of the Corporation,
      as such terms are defined in Section 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the
      Code. 

Bank 
- -
      means Lafayette Savings Bank, FSB, and any successor entity. 

Award 
- -
      means the grant of an Incentive Stock Option, a Non-Qualified Stock Option,
      a
      Stock Appreciation Right, a Limited Stock Appreciation Right or any combination
      thereof, as provided in the Plan. 

Code 
- -
      means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

Committee 
      - means the Committee referred to in Section 3 hereof. 

Continuous
      Service  - means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as a
      director, director emeritus, officer or employee of the Corporation or an
      Affiliate, except that when used with respect to persons granted an Incentive
      Option means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an
      employee of the Corporation or an Affiliate. Service shall not be considered
      interrupted in the case of sick leave, military leave or any other leave of
      absence approved by the Corporation or in the case of transfers between payroll
      locations of the Corporation or between the Corporation, its parent, its
      subsidiaries or its suc-cessor. With respect to any director emeritus,
      continuous service shall mean availability to perform such functions as may
      be
      required of the Bank s directors emeriti. 

Corporation 
      - means LSB Financial Corp., an Indiana corporation. 

Employee 
      - means any person, including an officer or director, who is employed by the
      Corporation or any Affiliate. 

ERISA 
- -
      means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
      amended. 

Exercise
      Price  - means (i) in the case of an Option, the price per Share at which the
      Shares subject to such Option may be purchased upon exercise of such Option
      and
      (ii) in the case of a Right, the price per Share (other than the Market Value
      per Share on the date of exercise and the Offer Price per Share as defined
      in
      Section 10 hereof) which, upon grant, the  

Committee
      determines shall be utilized in calculating the aggregate value which a
      Participant shall be entitled to receive pursuant to Sections 9, 10 or 12 hereof
      upon exercise of such Right. 

Incentive
      Stock Option  - means an option to purchase Shares granted by the Committee
      pursuant to Section 6 hereof which is subject to the limitations and
      restrictions of Section 8 hereof and is intended to qualify under Section 422
      of
      the Code. 

Limited
      Stock Appreciation Right  - means a stock appreciation right with respect to
      Shares granted by the Committee pursuant to Sections 6 and 10
      hereof. 

Market
      Value  - means the average of the high and low quoted sales price on the date in
      question (or, if there is no reported sale on such date, on the last preceding
      date on which any reported sale occurred) of a Share on the Composite Tape
      for
      the New York Stock Exchange-Listed Stocks, or, if on such date the Shares are
      not quoted on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if the
      Shares are not listed or admitted to trading on such Exchange, on the principal
      United States securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange
      Act
      of 1934 on which the Shares are listed or admitted to trading, or, if the Shares
      are not listed or admitted to trading on any such exchange, the mean between
      the
      closing high bid and low asked quotations with respect to a Share on such date
      on the Nasdaq System, or any similar system then in use, or, if no such
      quotations are available, the fair market value on such date of a Share as
      the
      Committee shall determine. 

Non-Employee
      Director  - means a director who a) is not currently an officer or employee of
      the Corporation; b) is not a former employee of the Corporation who receives
      compensation for prior services (other than from a tax-qualified retirement
      plan); c) has not been an officer of the Corporation; d) does not receive
      remuneration from the Corporation in any capacity other than as a director,
      except "De Minimis Remuneration" as defined in the rules promulgated pursuant
      to
      Section 162(m) of the Code; and e) does not possess an interest in any other
      transactions or is not engaged in a business relationship for which disclosure
      would be required under Item 404(a) or (b) of Regulation S-K. 

Non-Qualified
      Stock Option  - means an option to purchase Shares granted by the Committee
      pursuant to Section 6 hereof, which option is not intended to qualify under
      Section 422(b) of the Code. 

Option 
      - means an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option. 

Participant 
      - means any director, officer or employee of the Corporation or any Affiliate
      who is selected by the Committee to receive an Award and any director or
      director emeritus of the Corporation who is granted an Award pursuant to Section
      20 hereof. 

Plan 
- -
      means the 1995 Stock Option and Incentive Plan of the Corporation. 

Related 
      - means (i) in the case of a Right, a Right which is granted in connection
      with,
      and to the extent exercisable, in whole or in part, in lieu of, an Option or
      another Right and (ii) in the case of an Option, an Option with respect to
      which
      and to the extent a Right is exercisable, in whole or in part, in lieu thereof
      has been granted. 

2 

Right 
- -
      means a Limited Stock Appreciation Right or a Stock Appreciation
      Right. 

Shares 
      - means the shares of common stock of the Corporation. 

Stock
      Appreciation Right  - means a stock appreciation right with respect to Shares
      granted by the Committee pursuant to Sections 6 and 9 hereof. 

Ten
      Percent Beneficial Owner  - means the beneficial owner of more than ten percent
      of any class of the Corporation s equity securities registered pursuant to
      Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

3.      Administration . 
        The
      Plan
      shall be administered by a Committee consisting of two or more members each
      of
      whom shall be a Non-Employee Director. The members of the Committee shall be
      appointed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Except as limited by
      the
      express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete
      authority and discretion, subject to Office of Thrift Supervision Regulations,
      to (i) se-lect Participants and grant Awards; (ii) determine the number of
      Shares to be subject to types of Awards generally, as well as to individual
      Awards granted under the Plan; (iii) determine the terms and conditions upon
      which Awards shall be granted under the Plan; (iv) prescribe the form and terms
      of instruments evidencing such grants; and (v) establish from time to time
      regulations for the administration of the Plan, interpret the Plan, and make
      all
      determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the
      Plan. 

A
      majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of a majority
      of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts
      approved in writing by a majority of the Committee without a meeting, shall
      be
      acts of the Committee. 

4.      Participation
      in Committee Awards .    The
      Committee may select from time to time Participants in the Plan from those
      directors (including directors emeriti), officers and employees of the
      Corporation or its Affiliates who, in the opinion of the Committee, have the
      capacity for contributing to the successful performance of the Corporation
      or
      its Affiliates. 

5.      Shares
      Subject to Plan .    Subject
      to adjustment by the operation of Section 11 hereof, the maximum number of
      Shares with respect to which Awards may be made under the Plan is 10% of the
      total Shares issued in the Bank s conversion to the capital stock
      form.     The
      Shares with respect to which Awards may be made under the Plan may be either
      authorized and unissued shares or issued shares heretofore or hereafter
      reacquired and held as treasury shares. Shares which are subject to Related
      Rights and Related Options shall be counted only once in determining whether
      the
      maximum number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted under
      the
      Plan has been exceeded. An Award shall not be considered to have been made
      under
      the Plan with respect to any Option or Right which terminates and new Awards
      may
      be granted under the Plan with respect to the number of Shares as to which
      such
      termination has occurred. 

6.      General
      Terms and Conditions of Options and Rights .    The
      Committee shall have full and complete authority and discretion, subject to
      OTS
      regulations and except as expressly limited by the Plan, to grant Options and/or
      Rights and to provide the terms and conditions  

3 

(which
        need not be identical among Participants) thereof. In particular, the Committee
        shall prescribe the following terms and conditions: (i) the Exercise Price
        of
        any Option or Right, which shall not be less than the Market Value per Share
        at
        the date of grant of such Option or Right, (ii) the number of Shares subject
        to,
        and the expiration date of, any Option or Right, which expiration date shall
        not
        exceed ten years from the date of grant, (iii) the manner, time and rate
        (cumulative or otherwise) of exercise of such Option or Right, and (iv) the
        restrictions, if any, to be placed upon such Option or Right or upon Shares
        which may be issued upon exercise of such Option or Right. Notwithstanding
        the
        foregoing and subject to compliance with applicable Office of Thrift Supervision
        Regulations, no individual shall be granted Awards with respect to more than
        25%
        of the total shares subject to the Plan, and no director who is not an employee
        of the Corporation shall be granted Awards with respect to more than 5% of
        the
        total Shares subject to the Plan.     All
        non-employee directors of the Corporation, in the aggregate, may not be granted
        Awards with respect to more than 30% of the total Shares subject to the Plan.
        No
        Awards shall begin vesting earlier than one year from the date the Plan is
        approved by stockholders of the Corporation and shall not vest at a rate
        in
        excess of 20% per year, beginning from the date of grant. 

In
        the
        event Office of Thrift Supervision Regulations are amended (the  Amended
        Regulations ) to permit shorter vesting periods, any Award made pursuant to this
        Plan, which Award is subject to the requirements of such Amended Regulations,
        may vest, at the sole discretion of the Committee, in accordance with such
        Amended Regulations. 

Furthermore,
        at the time of any Award, the Participant shall enter into an agreement with
        the
        Corporation in a form specified by the Committee, agreeing to the terms and
        conditions of the Award and such other matters as the Committee, in its sole
        discretion, shall determine (the  Option Agreement ). 

7.      Exercise
        of Options or Rights . 

(a)     Except
        as
        provided herein, an Option or Right granted under the Plan shall be exercisable
        during the lifetime of the Participant to whom such Option or Right was granted
        only by such Participant and, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d)
        of
        this Section 7, no such Option or Right may be exercised unless at the time
        such
        Participant exercises such Option or Right, such Participant has maintained
        Continuous Service since the date of grant of such Option or Right. 

(b)     To
        exercise an Option or Right under the Plan, the Participant to whom such
        Option
        or Right was granted shall give written notice to the Corporation in form
        satisfactory to the Committee (and, if partial exercises have been permitted
        by
        the Committee, by specifying the number of Shares with respect to which such
        Participant elects to exercise such Option or Right) together with full payment
        of the Exercise Price, if any and to the extent required.     The
        date
        of exercise shall be the date on which such notice is received by the
        Corporation.     Payment,
        if any is required, shall be made either (i) in cash (including check, bank
        draft or money order) or (ii) by delivering (A) Shares already owned by the
        Participant and having a fair market value equal to the applicable exercise
        price, such fair market value to be determined in such appropriate manner
        as may
        be provided by the Committee or as may be  

4 

required
      in order to comply with or to conform to requirements of any applicable laws
      or
      regulations, or (B) a combination of cash and such Shares. 

(c)     Except
        as
        provided in Section 13 hereof, if a Participant to whom an Option or Right
        was
        granted shall cease to maintain Continuous Service for any reason (excluding
        death or disability and termination of employment by the Corporation or any
        Affiliate for cause), such Participant may, but only within the period of
        three
        months immediately suc-ceeding such cessation of Continuous Service and in
        no
        event after the expiration date of such Option or Right, exercise such Option
        or
        Right to the extent that such Participant was entitled to exercise such Option
        or Right at the date of such cessation, provided, however, that such right
        of
        exercise after cessation of Continuous Service shall not be available to
        a
        Participant if the Committee otherwise determines and so provides in the
        applicable instrument or instruments evidencing the grant of such Option
        or
        Right. If a Participant to whom an Option or Right was granted shall cease
        to
        maintain Continuous Service by reason of death or disability then, unless
        the
        Committee shall have otherwise provided in the instrument evidencing the
        grant
        of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, all Options and Rights granted
        and not
        fully exercisable shall become exercisable in full upon the happening of
        such
        event and shall remain so exercisable (i) in the event of death for the period
        described in paragraph (d) of this Section 7 and (ii) in the event of disability
        for a period of three months following such date. If the Continuous Service
        of a
        Participant to whom an Option or Right was granted by the Corporation is
        terminated for cause, all rights under any Option or Right of such Participant
        shall expire immediately upon the giving to the Participant of notice of
        such
        termination. 

(d)     In
        the
        event of the death of a Participant while in the Continuous Service of the
        Corporation or an Affiliate or within the three-month period referred to
        in
        paragraph (c) of this Section 7, the person to whom any Option or Right held
        by
        the Participant at the time of his death is transferred by will or the laws
        of
        descent and distribution, or in the case of an Award other than an Incentive
        Stock Option, pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, as defined
        in
        the Code or Title 1 of ERISA or the rules thereunder may, but only to the
        extent
        such Participant was entitled to exercise such Option or Right immediately
        prior
        to his death, exercise such Option or Right at any time within a period of
        one
        year succeeding the date of death of such Participant, but in no event later
        than ten years from the date of grant of such Option or Right. Following
        the
        death of any Participant to whom an Option was granted under the Plan,
        irrespective of whether any Related Right shall have theretofore been granted
        to
        the Participant or whether the person entitled to exercise such Related Right
        desires to do so, the Committee may, as an alternative means of settlement
        of
        such Option, elect to pay to the person to whom such Option is transferred
        by
        will or by the laws of descent and distribution, or in the case of an Option
        other than an Incentive Stock Option, pursuant to a qualified domestic relations
        order, as defined in the Code or Title I of ERISA or the rules thereunder,
        the
        amount by which the Market Value per Share on the date of exercise of such
        Option shall exceed the Exercise Price of such Option, multiplied by the
        number
        of Shares with respect to which such Option is properly exercised. Any such
        settlement of an Option shall be considered an exercise of such Option for
        all
        purposes of the Plan. 

8.        Incentive
      Stock Options .    Incentive
      Stock Options may be granted only to Participants who are Employees. Any
      provision of the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) no Incentive Stock
      Option shall be granted more than ten years from the date the Plan is adopted

5 

by
      the
      Board of Directors of the Corporation and no Incentive Stock Option shall be
      exercisable more than ten years from the date such Incentive Stock Option is
      granted, (ii) the Exercise Price of any Incentive Stock Option shall not be
      less
      than the Market Value per Share on the date such Incentive Stock Option is
      granted, (iii) any Incentive Stock Option shall not be transferable by the
      Participant to whom such Incentive Stock Option is granted other than by will
      or
      the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable during such
      Participant s lifetime only by such Participant, (iv) no Incentive Stock Option
      shall be granted to any individual who, at the time such Incentive Stock Option
      is granted, owns stock possessing more than ten percent of the total combined
      voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation or any Affiliate unless
      the Exercise Price of such Incentive Stock Option is at least 110 percent of
      the
      Market Value per Share at the date of grant and such Incentive Stock Option
      is
      not exercisable after the expiration of five years from the date such Incentive
      Stock Option is granted, and (v) the aggregate Market Value (determined as
      of
      the time any Incentive Stock Option is granted) of the Shares with respect
      to
      which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by a
      Participant in any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000. 

9.      Stock
      Appreciation Rights .    A
      Stock
      Appreciation Right shall, upon its exercise, entitle the Participant to whom
      such Stock Appreciation Right was granted to receive a number of Shares or
      cash
      or combination thereof, as the Committee in its discretion shall determine,
      the
      aggregate value of which (i.e., the sum of the amount of cash and/or Market
      Value of such Shares on date of exercise) shall equal (as nearly as possible,
      it
      being understood that the Corporation shall not issue any fractional shares)
      the
      amount by which the Market Value per Share on the date of such exercise shall
      exceed the Exercise Price of such Stock Appreciation Right, multiplied by the
      number of Shares with respect of which such Stock Appreciation Right shall
      have
      been exercised. A Stock Appreciation Right may be Related to an Option or may
      be
      granted independently of any Option as the Committee shall from time to time
      in
      each case determine. At the time of grant of an Option the Committee shall
      determine whether and to what extent a Related Stock Appreciation Right shall
      be
      granted with respect thereto, provided, however, and notwithstanding any other
      provision of the Plan, that if the Related Option is an Incentive Stock Option,
      the Related Stock Appreciation Right shall satisfy all the restrictions and
      limitations of Section 8 hereof as if such Related Stock Appreciation Right
      were
      an Incentive Stock Option and as if other rights which are Related to Incentive
      Stock Options were Incentive Stock Options.     In
      the
      case of a Related Option, such Related Option shall cease to be exer-cisable
      to
      the extent of the Shares with respect to which the Related Stock Appreciation
      Right was exercised. Upon the exercise or termination of a Related Option,
      any
      Related Stock Appre-ciation Right shall terminate to the extent of the Shares
      with respect to which the Related Option was exercised or
      terminated. 

10.      Limited
      Stock Appreciation Rights .    At
      the
      time of grant of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right to any Participant,
      the
      Committee shall have full and complete authority and discretion to also grant
      to
      such Participant a Limited Stock Appreciation Right which is Related to such
      Option or Stock Appreciation Right, provided, however and notwithstanding any
      other provision of the Plan, that if the Related Option is an Incentive Stock
      Option, the Related Limited Stock Appreciation Right shall satisfy all the
      restrictions and limitations of Section 8 hereof as if such Related Limited
      Stock Appreciation Right were an Incentive Stock Option and as if all other
      Rights which are Related to Incentive Stock Options were Incentive Stock
      Options. Subject to vesting requirements contained in 12 C.F.R.   563b.3(g)(4)
      or any successor  

6 

regulation,
      a Limited Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable only during the period
      be-ginning on the first day following the date of expiration of any  offer  (as
      such term is hereinafter defined) and ending on the forty-fifth day following
      such date. 

A
        Limited
        Stock Appreciation Right shall, upon its exercise, entitle the Participant
        to
        whom such Limited Stock Appreciation Right was granted to receive an amount
        of
        cash equal to the amount by which the  Offer Price per Share  (as such term is
        hereinafter defined) or the Market Value on the date of such exercise, as
        shall
        have been provided by the Committee in its discretion at the time of grant,
        shall exceed the Exercise Price of such Limited Stock Appreciation Right,
        multiplied by the number of Shares with respect to which such Limited Stock
        Appreciation Right shall have been exercised. Upon the exercise of a Limited
        Stock Appreciation Right, any Related Option and/or Related Stock Appreciation
        Right shall cease to be exercisable to the extent of the Shares with respect
        to
        which such Limited Stock Appreciation Right was exercised. Upon the exercise
        or
        termination of a Related Option or Related Stock Appreciation Right, any
        Related
        Limited Stock Appreciation Right shall terminate to the extent of the Shares
        with respect to which such Related Option or Related Stock Appreciation Right
        was exercised or terminated. 

For
        the
        purposes of this Section 10, the term  Offer  shall mean any tender offer or
        exchange offer for Shares other than one made by the Corporation, provided
        that
        the corporation, person or other entity making the offer acquires pursuant
        to
        such offer either (i) 25% of the Shares outstanding immediately prior to
        the
        commencement of such offer or (ii) a number of Shares which, together with
        all
        other Shares acquired in any tender offer or exchange offer (other than one
        made
        by the Corporation) which expired within sixty days of the expiration date
        of
        the offer in question, equals 25% of the Shares outstanding immediately prior
        to
        the commencement of the offer in question. The term  Offer Price per Share  as
        used in this Section 10 shall mean the highest price per Share paid in any
        Offer
        which Offer is in effect any time during the period beginning on the sixtieth
        day prior to the date on which a Limited Stock Appreciation Right is exercised
        and ending on the date on which such Limited Stock Appreciation Right is
        exercised. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration
        paid for Shares in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price
        per
        Share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property
        by the corporation, person or other entity making such Offer or (B) the
        valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee. 

11.      Adjustments
      Upon Changes in Capitalization .    In
      the
      event of any change in the outstanding Shares subsequent to the effective date
      of the Plan by reason of any reorganization, recapitalization, stock split,
      stock dividend, combination or exchange of shares, merger, consolidation or
      any
      change in the corporate structure or Shares of the Corporation, the maximum
      aggregate number and class of shares as to which Awards may be granted under
      the
      Plan and the number, class and exercise price of shares with respect to which
      Awards theretofore have been granted under the Plan shall be appropriately
      adjusted by the Committee, whose determination shall be conclusive. 

12.      Effect
      of Merger .    In
      the
      event of any merger, consolidation or combination of the Corporation (other
      than
      a merger, consolidation or combination in which the Corporation is the
      continuing entity and which does not result in the outstanding Shares being
      converted into or  

7 

exchanged
      for different securities, cash or other property, or any combination thereof)
      pursuant to a plan or agreement the terms of which are binding upon all
      stockholders of the Corporation (except to the extent that dissenting
      stockholders may be entitled, under statutory provisions or provisions contained
      in the articles of incorporation, to receive the appraised or fair value of
      their holdings), any Participant to whom an Option or Right has been granted
      shall have the right (subject to the provisions of the Plan and any limitation
      or vesting period applicable to such Option or Right), thereafter and during
      the
      term of each such Option or Right, to receive upon exercise of any such Option
      or Right an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value on the date
      of
      such exercise of the securities, cash or other property, or combination thereof,
      receivable upon such merger, consolidation or combination in respect of a Share
      over the Exercise Price of such Right or Option, multiplied by the number of
      Shares with respect to which such Option or Right shall have been exercised.
      Such amount may be payable fully in cash, fully in one or more of the kind
      or
      kinds of property payable in such merger, consolidation or combination, or
      partly in cash and partly in one or more of such kind or kinds of property,
      all
      in the discretion of the Committee. 

13.      Effect
      of Change in Control .    Each
      of
      the events specified in the following clauses (i) through (iii) of this Section
      13 shall be deemed a  change of control:  (i) any third person, including a
 group  as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
      shall become the beneficial owner of shares of the Corporation with respect
      to
      which 25% or more of the total number of votes which may be cast for the
      election of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (ii) as a result of,
      or
      in connection with, any cash tender offer, merger or other business combination,
      sale of assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the
      persons who were directors of the Corporation shall cease to constitute a
      majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or (iii) the stockholders
      of the Corporation shall approve an agreement providing either for a transaction
      in which the Corporation will cease to be an independent publicly owned entity
      or for a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all the assets of
      the
      Corporation. In the event a change in control shall occur, unless the Committee
      shall have otherwise provided in the instrument evidencing the grant of an
      Option or Stock Appreciation Right, all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
      theretofore granted and not fully exercisable shall become exercisable in full
      upon the happening of such event and shall remain so exercisable for a period
      of
      sixty days following such date, after which they shall revert to being
      exercisable in accordance with their terms, provided, however, that no Option
      or
      Stock Appreciation Right which has previously been exercised or otherwise
      terminated shall become exercisable. 

14.      Assignments
      and Transfers .    No
      Award
      nor any right or interest of a Participant under the Plan in any instrument
      evidencing any Award under the Plan may be assigned, encumbered or transferred
      except, in the event of the death of a Participant, by will or the laws of
      descent and distribution or in the case of Awards other than Incentive Stock
      Options pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, as defined in the
      Code
      or Title I of ERISA or the rules thereunder. 

15.      Employee
      Rights Under the Plan .    No
      director, officer or employee shall have a right to be selected as a Participant
      nor, having been so selected, to be selected again as a Participant and no
      director, officer, employee or other person shall have any claim or right to
      be
      granted an Award under the Plan or under any other incentive or similar plan
      of
      the Corporation  

8 

or
      any
      Affiliate. Neither the Plan nor any action taken thereunder shall be construed
      as giving any employee any right to be retained in the employ of the Corporation
      or any Affiliate. 

16.      Delivery
      and Registration of Stock .    The
      Corporation s obligation to deliver Shares with respect to an Award shall, if
      the Committee so requests, be conditioned upon the receipt of a representation
      as to the investment intention of the Participant to whom such Shares are to
      be
      delivered, in such form as the Committee shall determine to be necessary or
      advisable to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 or any
      other Federal, state or local securities legislation or regulation. It may
      be
      provided that any representation requirement shall become inoperative upon
      a
      registration of the Shares or other action eliminating the necessity of such
      representation under such Securities Act or other securities legislation. The
      Corporation shall not be required to deliver any Shares under the Plan prior
      to
      (i) the admission of such shares to listing on any stock exchange on which
      Shares may then be listed, and (ii) the completion of such registration or
      other
      qualification of such Shares under any state or Federal law, rule or regulation,
      as the Committee shall determine to be necessary or advisable. 

17.      Withholding-Tax . 
        The
      Corporation shall have the right to deduct from all amounts paid in cash with
      respect to the exercise of a Right under the Plan any taxes required by law
      to
      be withheld with respect to such cash payments. Where a Participant or other
      person is entitled to receive Shares pursuant to the exercise of an Option
      or
      Right pursuant to the Plan, the Corporation shall have the right to require
      the
      Participant or such other person to pay the Corporation the amount of any taxes
      which the Corporation is required to withhold with respect to such Shares,
      and
      may, in its sole discretion, withhold sufficient Shares to cover the amount
      of
      taxes which the Corporation is required to withhold. 

18.      Amendment
      or Termination .    The
      Board
      of Directors of the Corporation may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or
      any
      portion thereof at any time, subject to Office of Thrift Supervision
      Regulations, but (except as provided in Section 11 hereof) no amendment shall
      be
      made without approval of the stockholders of the Corporation which shall, (i)
      increase the aggregate number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be
      made
      under the Plan (except pursuant to Section 11), (ii) materially increase the
      benefits accruing to Participants, (iii) materially change the requirements
      as
      to eligibility for participation in the Plan or (iv) change the class of persons
      eligible to participate in the Plan, provided, however, that no such amendment,
      suspension or termination shall impair the rights of any Participant, without
      his consent, in any Award theretofore made pursuant to the Plan. 

19.      Effective
      Date and Term of Plan .    The
      Plan
      shall become effective upon its ratification by stockholders of the Corporation.
      It shall continue in effect for a term of ten years unless sooner terminated
      under Section 18 hereof. 

20.      Initial
      Grant .    By,
      and
      simultaneously with, the ratification of this Plan by the stockholders of the
      Corporation, each member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and each
      director emeritus of the Bank at the time of stockholder ratification of this
      Plan who is not an Employee, is hereby granted a ten-year, Non-Qualified Stock
      Option to purchase 3,860 shares at an Exercise Price per share equal to the
      Market Value per share of the Shares on the date of grant. Each such Option
      shall be evidenced by a Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement in a form approved
      by the Board of Directors and shall be subject in all respects to the terms
      and

9 

conditions
      of this Plan, which are controlling. All Options granted pursuant to this
      section shall vest in five equal annual installments with the first installment
      vesting on the first anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the Director
      maintaining Continuous Service with the Corporation or its Affiliates since
      the
      date of grant. 

10 

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 lsb_10k102.htm
 RECOGNITION AND RETENTION PLAN

Recognition and Retention Plan

Exhibit
        10.2  

LSB
        FINANCIAL CORP.  

         RECOGNITION
        AND RETENTION PLAN  

1.      Plan
        Purpose .    The
        purpose of the Plan is to promote the long-term interests of the Corporation
        and
        its stockholders by providing a means for attracting and retaining directors
        and
        officers of the Corporation and its Affiliates. 

2.      Definitions . 
          The
        following definitions are applicable to the Plan: 

Award 
- -
        means the grant by the Committee of Restricted Stock, as provided in the
        Plan. 

Affiliate 
        - means any  parent corporation  or  subsidiary corporation  of the Corporation,
        as such terms are defined in Section 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the
        Code. 

Bank 
- -
        means Lafayette Savings Bank, FSB, a capital stock savings bank or any successor
        entity. 

Code 
- -
        means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

Committee 
        - means the Committee referred to in Section 7 hereof. 

Continuous
        Service  - means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as a
        director, director emeritus, officer or employee of the Corporation or any
        Affiliate. Service shall not be considered interrupted in the case of sick
        leave, military leave or any other leave of absence approved by the Corporation
        or any Affiliate or in the case of transfers between payroll locations of
        the
        Corporation or between the Corporation, its subsidiaries or its
        successor. 

Corporation 
        - means LSB Financial Corp., an Indiana corporation. 

ERISA 
- -
        means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
        amended. 

Non-Employee
        Director  - means a director who a) is not currently an officer or employee of
        the Corporation; b) is not a former employee of the Corporation who receives
        compensation for prior services (other than from a tax-qualified retirement
        plan); c) has not been an officer of the Corporation; d) does not receive
        remuneration from the Corporation in any capacity other than as a director,
        except "De Minimis Remuneration" as defined in the rules promulgated pursuant
        to
        Section 162(m) of the Code; and e) does not possess an interest in any other
        transactions or is not engaged in a business relationship for which disclosure
        would be required under Item 404(a) or (b) of Regulation S-K. 

Participant 
        - means any director, director emeritus, officer or employee of the Corporation
        or any Affiliate who is selected by the Committee to receive an
        Award. 

Plan 
- -
        means the Recognition and Retention Plan of the Corporation. 

Restricted
        Period  - means the period of time selected by the Committee for the purpose of
        determining when restrictions are in effect under Section 3 hereof with respect
        to Restricted Stock awarded under the Plan. 

Restricted
        Stock  - means Shares which have been contingently awarded to a Participant by
        the Committee subject to the restrictions referred to in Section 3 hereof,
        so
        long as such restrictions are in effect. 

Shares 
        - means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the
        Corporation. 

3.      Terms
        and Conditions of Restricted Stock .    The
        Committee shall have full and complete authority, subject to the limitations
        of
        the Plan, to grant awards of Restricted Stock and, in addition to the terms
        and
        conditions contained in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this Section 3, to
        provide
        such other terms and conditions (which need not be identical among Participants)
        in respect of such Awards, and the vesting thereof, as the Committee shall
        determine. 

(a)     At
        the
        time of an award of Restricted Stock, the Committee shall establish for each
        Participant a Restricted Period, during which or at the expiration of which,
        as
        the Committee shall determine and provide in the agreement referred to in
        paragraph (d) of this Section 3, the Shares awarded as Restricted Stock shall
        vest, and subject to any such other terms and conditions as the Committee
        shall
        provide, shares of Restricted Stock may not be sold, assigned, transferred,
        pledged, voted or otherwise encumbered by the Participant, except as hereinafter
        provided, during the Restricted Period. Except for such restrictions, and
        subject to paragraphs (c) and (e) of this Section 3 and Section 4 hereof,
        the
        Participant as owner of such shares shall have all the rights of a
        stockholder. 

No
        director who is not an employee of the Corporation shall be granted Awards
        with
        respect to more than 5% of the total shares subject to the Plan. All
        non-employee directors of the Corporation, in the aggregate, may not be granted
        Awards with respect to more than 30% of the total shares subject to the Plan
        and
        no individual shall be granted Awards with respect to more than 25% of the
        total
        shares subject to the Plan. No Awards shall begin vesting earlier than one
        year
        from the date the Plan is approved by stockholders of the Corporation and
        shall
        not vest at a rate in excess of 20% per year, beginning from the date of
        grant.
        In the event Office of Thrift Supervision Regulations are amended (the  Amended
        Regulations ) to permit shorter vesting periods, any Award made pursuant to this
        Plan, which Award is subject to the requirements of such Amended Regulations,
        may vest, at the sole discretion of the Committee, in accordance with such
        Amended Regulations. 

Subject
        to compliance with the Office of Thrift Supervision Regulations, the Committee
        shall have the authority, in its discretion, to accelerate the time at which
        any
        or all of the restrictions shall lapse with respect thereto, or to remove
        any or
        all of such restrictions, whenever it may determine that such action is
        appropriate by reason of changes in applicable tax or other laws or other
        changes in circumstances occurring after the commencement of such Restricted
        Period. 

(b)     Except
        as
        provided in Section 5 hereof, if a Participant ceases to maintain Continuous
        Service for any reason (other than death or disability), all Shares of
        Restricted Stock theretofore awarded to such Participant and which at the
        time
        of such termination of Continuous Service are subject to the restrictions
        imposed by paragraph (a) of this Section 3 shall upon such termination of
        Continuous Service be forfeited and returned to the Corporation. If a
        Participant ceases to maintain Continuous Service by reason of death or
        disability, Restricted Stock then still subject to restrictions imposed by
        paragraph (a) of this Section 3 will be free of those restrictions. 

2 

(c)     Each
          certificate in respect of Shares of Restricted Stock awarded under the
          Plan
          shall be registered in the name of the Participant and deposited by the
          Participant, together with a stock power endorsed in blank, with the Corporation
          and shall bear the following (or a similar) legend: 

The
          transferability of this certificate and the shares of stock represented
          hereby
          are subject to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture) contained
          in the
          Recognition and Retention Plan of LSB Financial Corp. Copies of such Plan
          are on
          file in the office of the Secretary of LSB Financial Corp., 101 Main Street,
          Lafayette, Indiana 47901. 

(d)     At
          the
          time of any Award, the Participant shall enter into an agreement with the
          Corporation in a form specified by the Committee, agreeing to the terms
          and
          conditions of the Award and such other matters as the Committee, in its
          sole
          discretion, shall determine (the  Restricted Stock Agreement ). 

(e)     At
          the
          time of an award of shares of Restricted Stock, the Committee shall determine
          that the payment to the Participant of dividends declared or paid on such
          shares
          by the Corporation shall be deferred until the lapsing of the restrictions
          imposed under paragraph (a) of this Section 3, and shall be held by the
          Corporation for the account of the Participant until such time. There shall
          be
          credited at the end of each year (or portion thereof) interest on the amount
          of
          the account at the beginning of the year at a rate per annum as the Committee,
          in its discretion, may determine. Payment of deferred dividends, together
          with
          interest accrued thereon, shall be made upon the earlier to occur of the
          lapsing
          of the restrictions imposed under paragraph (a) of this Section 3 or upon
          death
          or disability of the Participant. 

(f)     At
          the
          expiration of the restrictions imposed by paragraph (a) of this Section
          3, the
          Corporation shall redeliver to the Participant (or where the relevant provision
          of paragraph (b) of this Section 3 applies in the case of a deceased
          Participant, to his legal representative, beneficiary or heir) the
          certificate(s) and stock power deposited with it pursuant to paragraph
          (c) of
          this Section 3 and the Shares represented by such certificate(s) shall
          be free
          of the restrictions referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 3. 

4.      Adjustments
        Upon Changes in Capitalization .    In
        the
        event of any change in the outstanding Shares subsequent to the effective
        date
        of the Plan by reason of any reorganization, recapitalization, stock split,
        stock dividend, combination or exchange of shares, merger, consolidation
        or any
        change in the corporate structure or Shares of the Corporation, the maximum
        aggregate number and class of shares as to which Awards may be granted under
        the
        Plan and the number and class of shares with respect to which Awards theretofore
        have been granted under the Plan shall be appropriately adjusted by the
        Committee, whose determination shall be conclusive. Any shares of stock or
        other
        securities received, as a result of any of the foregoing, by a Participant
        with
        respect to Restricted Stock shall be subject to the same restrictions and
        the
        certificate(s) or other instruments representing or evidencing such shares
        or
        securities shall be legended and deposited with the Corporation in the manner
        provided in Section 3 hereof. 

5.      Effect
        of Change in Control .    Each
        of
        the events specified in the following clauses (i) through (iii) of this Section
        5 shall be deemed a  change of control  :     (i)
        any
        third person, including a  group  as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the
        Securities Exchange Act of 1934, shall  

3 

become
        the beneficial owner of shares of the Corporation with respect to which 25%
        or
        more of the total number of votes which may be cast for the election of the
        Board of Directors of the Corporation, (ii) as a result of, or in connection
        with, any cash tender offer, merger or other business combination, sale of
        assets or contested election, or combination of the foregoing, the persons
        who
        were directors of the Corporation shall cease to constitute a majority of
        the
        Board of Directors of the Corporation, or (iii) the stockholders of the
        Corporation shall approve an agreement providing either for a transaction
        in
        which the Corporation will cease to be an independent publicly owned entity
        or
        for a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all the assets of
        the
        Corporation.     If
        the
        Continuous Service of any Participant of the Corporation is involuntarily
        terminated for whatever reason, except for cause, at any time within eighteen
        months after a change in control, unless the Committee shall have otherwise
        provided, any Restricted Period with respect to Restricted Stock theretofore
        awarded to such Participant shall lapse upon such termination and all Shares
        awarded as Restricted Stock shall become fully vested in the Participant
        to whom
        such Shares were awarded. 

6.      Assignments
        and Transfers .    No
        Award
        nor any right or interest of a Participant under the Plan in any instrument
        evidencing any Award under the Plan may be assigned, encumbered or transferred
        except, in the event of the death of a Participant, by will or the laws of
        descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order
        as
        defined in the Code or Title I of ERISA or the rules thereunder. 

7.      Administration.  
          The
        Plan
        shall be administered by a Committee consisting of two or more members, each
        of
        whom shall be a Non-Employee Director. The members of the Committee shall
        be
        appointed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Except as limited
        by the
        express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete
        authority and discretion, subject to Office of Thrift Supervision Regulations,
        to (i) select Participants and grant Awards; (ii) determine the number of
        shares
        to be subject to types of Awards generally, as well as to individual Awards
        granted under the Plan; (iii) determine the terms and conditions upon which
        Awards shall be granted under the Plan; (iv) prescribe the form and terms
        of
        instruments evidencing such grants; and (v) establish from time to time
        regulations for the administration of the Plan, interpret the Plan, and make
        all
        determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the
        Plan. 

A
        majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of a majority
        of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts
        approved in writing by a majority of the Committee without a meeting, shall
        be
        acts of the Committee. 

8.      Shares
        Subject to Plan .    Subject
        to adjustment by the operation of Section 4 hereof, the maximum number of
        Shares
        with respect to which Awards may be made under the Plan is 4% of the total
        Shares sold in the Bank s conversion to stock form, subject to the Bank s
        capital level meeting OTS regulatory requirements at the time of submission
        to
        stockholders. The shares with respect to which Awards may be made under the
        Plan
        may be either authorized and unissued shares or issued shares heretofore
        or
        hereafter reacquired and held as treasury shares. An Award shall not be
        considered to have been made under the Plan with respect to Restricted Stock
        which is forfeited and new Awards may be granted under the Plan with respect
        to
        the number of Shares as to which such forfeiture has occurred. 

9.      Employee
        Rights Under the Plan .    No
        director, officer or employee shall have a right to be selected as a Participant
        nor, having been so selected, to be selected again as a  

4 

Participant
        and no director, officer, employee or other person shall have any claim or
        right
        to be granted an Award under the Plan or under any other incentive or similar
        plan of the Corporation or any Affiliate. Neither the Plan nor any action
        taken
        thereunder shall be construed as giving any employee any right to be retained
        in
        the employ of the Corporation, the Bank or any Affiliate. 

10.      Withholding
        Tax .    Upon
        the
        termination of the Restricted Period with respect to any shares of Restricted
        Stock (or at any such earlier time, if any, that an election is made by the
        Participant under Section 83(b) of the Code, or any successor provision thereto,
        to include the value of such shares in taxable income), the Corporation may
        withhold from any payment or distribution made under this Plan sufficient
        Shares
        or may withhold or cause to be paid by the Participant sufficient cash to
        cover
        any applicable withholding and employment taxes. The Corporation shall have
        the
        right to deduct from all dividends paid with respect to shares of Restricted
        Stock the amount of any taxes which the Corporation is required to withhold
        with
        respect to such dividend payments. No discretion or choice shall be conferred
        upon any Participant with respect to the form, timing or method of any such
        tax
        withholding. 

11.      Amendment
        or Termination .    The
        Board
        of Directors of the Corporation may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan
        or any
        portion thereof at any time, subject to Office of Thrift Supervision
        Regulations, provided, however, that no such amendment, suspension or
        termination shall impair the rights of any Participant, without his consent,
        in
        any Award theretofore made pursuant to the Plan. 

12.      Term
        of Plan .    The
        Plan
        shall become effective upon its ratification by stockholders of the Corporation,
        following completion of the Bank s conversion to stock form. It shall continue
        in effect for a term of ten years unless sooner terminated under Section
        11
        hereof. 

13.      Initial
        Grants .    By,
        and
        simultaneously with, the ratification of this Plan by the stockholders of
        the
        Corporation, each member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and
        each
        Director Emeritus of the Bank at the time of stockholder ratification, who
        is
        not a full-time Employee, is hereby granted an Award equal to 1,544 shares.
        Each
        such Award shall be evidenced by a Restricted Stock Agreement in a form approved
        by the Committee administering such plan and shall be subject in all respects
        to
        the terms and conditions of this Plan, which are controlling. Each of the
        Awards
        granted in this Section 13, shall vest in five equal annual installments,
        with
        the first installment vesting on the one-year anniversary of the date of
        grant.
        Awards granted pursuant to this Section 13 are subject to the conditions
        of the
        Plan, including the requirement that the Director maintain Continuous Service
        with the Bank from the date of grant,    provided   
        that no
        Awards shall be earned in any fiscal year in which the Bank fails to meet
        all of
        its fully phased-in capital requirements. 

5 

</EX-10.2>

<EX-13>
 4
 lsb_ars.htm
 2005 ANNUAL REPORT

2005 Annual Report

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

2005
      Annual Report   

LSB
                FINANCIAL CORP.  

TABLE
                OF CONTENTS  

Letter
                to Shareholders  

1 

Selected
                Financial Information  

2 

Management's
                Discussion and Analysis 

4 

Disclosure
                Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

29 

Auditors 
                Report 

30 

Consolidated
                Financial Statements  

32 

Directors
                and Executive Officers  

59 

Shareholder
                Information  

61 

ANNUAL
                MEETING  

The
                Annual Meeting of Shareholders of LSB Financial Corp. will be held
                April
                19, 2006 at 9:00 a.m. local time at the LSB Building, located at
                22 N.
                Second Street, Lafayette, Indiana   . 

LSB
      F INANCIAL 
      C ORP.   

Dear
      Shareholder: 

Good
      news! In 2005, net income amounted to $3.3 million, resulting in a return on
      equity of 10.2 percent. The absolute dollar level of earnings - virtually
      unchanged from 2004 - doesn t meet our expectations. However, based on events in
      the fourth quarter, explained in the next paragraph, we felt that prudence
      required us to address some unanticipated demands on our loan loss reserves.
      I
      am especially pleased that the efforts of our management team resulted in an
      8.9
      percent increase in net interest income and a 12.1 percent increase in
      noninterest income. 

In
      our
      market in 2005, residential construction in the market was down 19 percent
      over
      the previous year. The unemployment rate in Tippecanoe County, although
      relatively low nationally at 4.6 percent, is at a 15-year high. Also, Indiana
      ranks among the nation s highest in number of bankruptcy filings, and
      foreclosures were up 14 percent over the previous year. The new bankruptcy
      law,
      which went into effect in November, had a significant impact on us. Accordingly,
      we took a loan loss provision of $1.2 million during the year. We are confident,
      based on our analysis of the nonperforming loans, that our reserve levels are
      adequate to cover anticipated losses. 

Back
      to
      the good news. The price of our stock increased 6.2 percent for the year,
      closing at $27.60 per share. Also, we delivered our ninth straight year of
      increasing dividends. For the second consecutive year, we paid a 5.0 percent
      stock dividend in addition to increasing the cash dividend to $0.64 annually.
      This represents a 21 percent increase in the cash dividend. Total shareholder
      return for the year was 14.14 percent. 

Our
      success is recognized by the business community. For the third consecutive
      year,
      LSB Financial was named to    U.S.
      Banker   
      magazine's list of top 200 publicly traded community banks. Using our three-year
      average return on equity as the metric, we ranked 91   st   
      in the
      nation. Additionally,    Indianapolis
      Business Journal   
      named
      LSB Financial as the 20   th   
      best-performing public company headquartered in Indiana. The FDIC s deposit
      summary for Tippecanoe County at June 30, 2005, showed that we moved up one
      place to the number three position in deposit market share. We continue to
      invest time, expertise, and financial resources in Greater Lafayette, and we
      receive business and goodwill in return.  

Looking
      ahead, the board of directors is committed to increasing shareholder value.
      The
      employees of Lafayette Savings Bank are dedicated to  exceeding expectations
      everyday.  We, as your management team, are anticipating the coming
      opportunities and challenges. Thank you for your continued support as we grow
      our company. 

Respectfully, 

Randolph
      F. Williams 

      President
        Chief Executive Officer 

1 

SELECTED
      FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

The
      selected financial data presented below should be read in conjunction with
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations, as well as the audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained
      elsewhere in this Annual Report. 

2 

(1)  

Net
                interest income divided by average interest-earning
                assets. 

3 

MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

       OF
      FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Executive
      Overview  

General  

LSB
      Financial Corp., an Indiana corporation ( LSB Financial  or the  Company ), is
      the holding company of Lafayette Savings Bank, FSB ( Lafayette Savings  or the
 Bank ). LSB Financial has no separate operations and its business consists only
      of the business of Lafayette Savings. References in this Annual Report to  we, 
 us  and  our  refer to LSB Financial and/or Lafayette Savings as the context
      requires. 

Lafayette
      Savings is and intends to continue to be, an independent, community-oriented
      financial institution. The Bank has been in business for 136 years and differs
      from many of our competitors in having a local board and local decision-making
      in all areas of business. In general our business consists of attracting
      deposits and lending that money out primarily as real estate loans to construct
      and purchase single-family residential properties, and to a lesser extent,
      multi-family and commercial properties and to fund land development projects.
      We
      also make a limited number of commercial business and consumer loans.

We
      have
      an experienced and committed staff and enjoy a good reputation for understanding
      the people of the community and their financial needs and for finding a way
      to
      meet those needs. We contribute time and money to improve the quality of life
      in
      our market area and many of our employees volunteer for local non-profit
      agencies. We believe this sets us apart from the other 18 banks and credit
      unions who compete with us. We also believe that the fact that we have kept
      the
      same name and remained independent over 136 years is a benefit to us especially
      now, as acquisitions and consolidations of local financial institutions
      continue. Focusing time and additional marketing dollars on customers of these
      acquired institutions who may be feeling disenfranchised by their
      no-longer-local bank proved to be a successful strategy. 

The
      greater Lafayette area enjoys diverse employment including major manufacturers
      such as Subaru, Caterpillar, Wabash National and Greater Lafayette Health
      Services; a strong education sector with Purdue University and a large local
      campus of Ivy Tech Community College; government offices of Lafayette, West
      Lafayette and Tippecanoe County and a growing high-tech presence with the Purdue
      Research Park. In the past this diversity insulated us from economic downturns
      but the slowdowns of the last few years had a noticeable effect on the area.
      While the unemployment situation continues to slowly improve, we have a number
      of borrowers who have fallen substantially behind on their loans. The majority
      of these loans are secured by real estate and we believe we have sufficient
      reserves to cover probable losses. The challenge is to get delinquent borrowers
      back on a working payment schedule or to get control of their properties through
      an overburdened court system. 

The
      funds
      used to make loans come primarily from deposits from customers in our market
      area, from brokered deposits and from Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB )advances.
      In addition we maintain an investment portfolio of available-for-sale securities
      to provide liquidity  

4 

as
        needed. Our intention is to seek out the least expensive source of funds
        but if
        the need is immediate we will acquire pre-payable FHLB advances which can
        be
        replaced with local or brokered deposits as they become available. Our reliance
        on brokered deposits increased in 2004 and at December 2005 represented 25.2%
        of
        total deposits. We find the rates to be competitive with the cost of raising
        money locally, the deposits are available with a range of terms and the money
        is
        completely predictable as the money cannot be withdrawn early except in the
        case
        of the death of the depositor and there is no option to have the money rollover
        at maturity. While we always welcome local deposits, the cost and convenience
        of
        brokered funds make them a useful alternative. We will continue to rely on
        Federal Home Loan Bank advances to provide immediate liquidity and also to
        help
        manage interest rate risk. 

Our
      primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between
      the interest income earned on our loan and investment portfolios and the
      interest expense incurred on deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income
      depends on the balance of our loan and investment portfolios and the size of
      our
      net interest margin the difference between the income generated from loans and
      the cost of the funding. A major area of concern in the growth of net interest
      income is the continuing flattening and inversion of the yield curve. Short-term
      rates increased steadily over 2004 and 2005 while long-term rates have remained
      comparatively flat. Because deposits are generally tied to shorter-term market
      rates, and loans are generally tied to longer-term rates, the shrinking spread
      between the two has made it more difficult to maintain desired operating income
      levels. Our expectation for 2006 is that short-term rates will continue to
      rise
      as the Federal Reserve Board responds to inflation concerns and the growing
      strength of the economy. Long-term rates have remained low because the purchase
      of U.S. government bonds has driven up the price of long-term bonds and kept
      their returns low. Until this situation changes we expect the yield curve to
      remain flat or inverted.  

Rate
      changes could be expected to have an impact on interest income. Rising rates
      generally increase borrower preference for variable rate products which we
      typically keep in our portfolio. Additionally, existing adjustable rate loans
      can be expected to reprice to higher rates, both of which could be expected
      to
      have a favorable impact on interest income. Alternatively, continuing low
      interest rates could have a negative impact on our interest income as new loans
      are put on the books at comparatively low rates and our existing adjustable
      rate
      loans reprice to lower rates. Even if rates do fall, because so many borrowers
      refinanced their mortgages in the last few years, we do not expect to see a
      return to a high volume of refinancing. However, low rates may be expected
      to
      encourage borrowers to initiate additional real estate related purchases.

Our
      primary expense is interest on deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank advances
      which are used to fund loan growth. We offer customers in our market area time
      deposits for terms ranging from three months to five years, checking accounts
      and savings accounts. We also purchase brokered deposits and Federal Home Loan
      Bank advances as needed to provide funding or to improve our interest rate
      risk
      position. Generally when interest rates are low, depositors will choose
      shorter-term products and conversely when rates are high, depositors will choose
      longer-term products.  

We
      consider expected changes in interest rates when structuring our
      interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities. When rates are
      expected to increase we try to book  

5 

shorter-term
        assets that will reprice relatively quickly to higher rates over time, and
        book
        longer-term liabilities that will remain for a longer time at lower rates.
        Conversely, when rates are expected to fall, we would like our balance sheet
        to
        be structured such that loans will reprice more slowly to lower rates and
        deposits will reprice more quickly. We currently offer a three-year and a
        five-year certificate of deposit that allows depositors one opportunity to
        have
        their rate adjusted to the market rate at a future date to encourage them
        to
        choose longer-term deposit products. However since we are not able to predict
        market interest rate fluctuations, our asset-liability management strategy
        may
        not prevent interest rate changes from having an adverse effect on our results
        of operations and financial condition. 

Our
      results of operations may also be affected by general and local competitive
      conditions, particularly those with respect to changes in market interest rates,
      government policies and actions of regulatory authorities.  

2005
      Summary  

Our
      strategy in 2005 included loan portfolio growth, progress in dealing with
      non-performing loans, controlling the cost of funds, and growth in other income.

Part
      of
      our strategy was to increase the size of our loan portfolio in 2005 by taking
      advantage of the changing interest rate environment and the unprecedented merger
      and acquisition activity in the greater Lafayette area. The slight increase
      in
      mortgage interest rates was sufficient to shift borrowers  preference to
      adjustable rate products which we keep in our portfolio. We increased our
      average balance in our loan portfolio by $27.1 million in 2005 and increased
      interest income on loans by $2.2 million. Part of the increase in interest
      income on loans was also due to the upward repricing of adjustable rate
      mortgages. We sold $19.2 million of fixed rate loans originated in 2005 for
      a
      gain of $322,000.  

We
      were
      able to decrease the average rate paid on Federal Home Loan Bank advances by
      22
      basis points as higher-rate, longer-term advances were replaced with lower-rate
      medium-term advances and short-term, prepayable advances. The average rate
      on
      our deposits increased by 33 basis points as a result of our depositors 
preference for short-to medium-term deposits because of their assumption that
      rates would continue to rise. Because short-term rates did indeed rise, many
      of
      these deposits repriced to higher rates. 

The
      slowdown in the economy for the last few years caused an increase in
      delinquencies, foreclosures and bankruptcies. Because of the change in the
      bankruptcy law we saw filings by our borrowers increase from 14 for the first
      eight months of the year to 18 in September and October alone. We conduct
      ongoing assessments of these situations, and in 2005 our analysis led us to
      allocate reserves at a higher level, increasing from $500,000 in 2004 to $1.2
      million in 2005. We added an additional $450,000 to our loan loss reserves
      at
      December 31, 2005, bringing the total allocation in the fourth quarter to
      $725,000. A total of $328,000 was allocated to a single borrower where we have
      concerns about the borrower s liquidity. In addition, the number of bankruptcy
      filings received by the Bank increased in the fourth quarter prior to the new
      bankruptcy law taking effect in October 2005. We charged $492,000 against loan
      loss reserves on 29 loans either written off or taken into other real estate
      owned. The increased 

6 

provision
        during 2005 was necessary to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a
        level
        considered adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and cover
        anticipated charge-offs. The Office of Thrift Supervision, which recently
        completed an examination of the Bank, also concluded that increased reserves
        are
        appropriate. While our delinquencies are still higher than we would like,
        based
        on our analysis we believe we have sufficient reserves to cover inherent
        losses. 

Other
      non-interest income, excluding the gain on sale of loans, increased by $540,000,
      primarily from a $534,000 increase in service charges and fees on deposit
      accounts resulting from the introduction of a program that allows qualified
      customers to overdraw their account by up to $500. The Bank agrees to cover
      the
      check and the customer pays a fee for the service. 

Other
      non-interest expense increased $557,000, primarily because of a $330,000
      increase in other expenses due to preparations for Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404
      compliance and expenses on foreclosed properties and properties held in other
      real estate owned.  

2006
      Overview  

We
      expect
      that in 2006 most of the loans we originate will remain in our portfolio because
      of a continuing customer preference for adjustable rate products. While we
      do
      not expect long-term rates to rise substantially, we do expect the Federal
      Reserve to continue to increase short-term rates with the overall effect being
      a
      slowing in the demand for loans from levels seen in 2005.  

Our
      operating results will also continue to be affected by several factors involving
      the disposition of properties in foreclosure or held in other real estate owned,
      including the level of the provision for loan losses, gains and losses on the
      sale of properties once we acquire title to them, and non-interest expenses
      incurred in obtaining, marketing and disposing of the properties. In 2006 we
      expect to dispose of a significant percentage of properties securing loans
      that
      are currently non-performing. We monitor these and all other loans in our loan
      portfolio carefully and perform specific impairment analyses on any loans over
      90 days delinquent. Based on our analysis, we believe that our current loan
      loss
      reserve is sufficient to cover probable losses. 

Other
      challenges facing the Bank in 2006 include the implementation of Sarbanes-Oxley
      Section 404 dealing with internal controls over financial reporting. Because
      of
      the change in implementation dates and the continuing discussion as to how
      the
      rules will be applied to companies our size, much of the work involved in
      complying with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 was delayed while awaiting guidance
      from the SEC. We expect and intend to devote considerable resources to this
      process in 2006. We have hired a consulting firm to assist in the design of
      a
      program and have dedicated a staff member to working through the process of
      establishing, documenting and testing controls. We expect the cost of
      implementing this regulation to be less than $100,000 this year, although the
      exact amount depends on the final guidance issued by the regulators.

Significant
      external factors impacting our results of operations include the general
      economic environment, changes in the level of market interest rates, government
      policies,  

7 

actions
        by regulatory authorities and competition. Our cost of funds is influenced
        by
        interest rates on competing investments and general market rates of interest.
        Lending activities are influenced by the demand for real estate loans and
        other
        types of loans, which are in turn affected by the interest rates at which
        such
        loans are made, general economic conditions affecting loan demand and the
        availability of funds for lending activities. 

We
      intend
      to continue to follow a strategy for growth that includes (1) maintaining a
      strong capital position, (2) managing our vulnerability to changes in interest
      rates by emphasizing adjustable-rate and/or shorter-term loans, (3) optimizing
      our net interest margin by supplementing our traditional residential mortgage
      lending with multi-family and commercial real estate, consumer and construction
      loans, (4) expanding commercial business lending, and (5) funding our growth
      by
      using longer-term deposits and advances when possible. 

The
      results of our business strategy in 2005 may be illustrated as
      follows:   

Critical
      Accounting Policies  

Generally
      accepted accounting principles are complex and require management to apply
      significant judgments to various accounting, reporting and disclosure matters.
      Management of LSB Financial Corp. must use assumptions and estimates to apply
      these principles where actual measurement is not possible or practical. For
      a
      complete discussion of LSB Financial Corp.'s significant accounting policies,
      see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005.
      Certain policies are considered critical because they are highly dependent
      upon
      subjective or complex judgments, assumptions and estimates. Changes in such
      estimates may have a significant impact on the financial statements. Management
      has reviewed the application of these policies with the Audit Committee of
      LSB
      Financial Corp.'s Board of Directors. These policies include the
      following: 

8 

Allowance
      for Loan Losses   

The
      allowance for loan losses represents management's estimate of probable losses
      inherent in Lafayette Savings' loan portfolios. In determining the appropriate
      amount of the allowance for loan losses, management makes numerous assumptions,
      estimates and assessments. 

The
      strategy also emphasizes diversification on an industry and customer level,
      regular credit quality reviews and quarterly management reviews of large credit
      exposures and loans experiencing deterioration of credit quality.  

Lafayette
      Savings' allowance consists of three components: probable losses estimated
      from
      individual reviews of specific loans, probable losses estimated from historical
      loss rates, and probable losses resulting from economic or other deterioration
      above and beyond what is reflected in the first two components of the
      allowance. 

Larger
      commercial loans that exhibit probable or observed credit weaknesses and all
      loans that are rated substandard or lower are subject to individual review.
      Where appropriate, reserves are allocated to individual loans based on
      management's estimate of the borrower's ability to repay the loan given the
      availability of collateral, other sources of cash flow and legal options
      available to the Bank. Included in the review of individual loans are those
      that
      are impaired as provided in SFAS 114,    Accounting
      by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan   .
      Any
      allowances for impaired loans are determined by the present value of expected
      future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate or fair
      value
      of the underlying collateral. Historical loss rates are applied to other
      commercial loans not subject to specific reserve allocations. 

Homogenous
      smaller balance loans, such as consumer installment and residential mortgage
      loans are not individually risk graded. Reserves are established for each pool
      of loans based on the expected net charge-offs for one year. Loss rates are
      based on the average net charge-off history by loan category. 

Historical
      loss rates for commercial and consumer loans may be adjusted for significant
      factors that, in management's judgment, reflect the impact of any current
      conditions on loss recognition. Factors which management considers in the
      analysis include the effects of the national and local economies, trends in
      the
      nature and volume of loans (delinquencies, charge-offs and nonaccrual loans),
      changes in mix, asset quality trends, risk management and loan administration,
      changes in the internal lending policies and credit standards, collection
      practices and examination results from bank regulatory agencies and the Bank's
      internal loan review. 

An
      unallocated reserve is maintained to recognize the imprecision in estimating
      and
      measuring loss when evaluating reserves for individual loans or pools of loans.
      Allowances on individual loans are reviewed quarterly and historical loss rates
      are reviewed annually and adjusted as necessary based on changing borrower
      and/or collateral conditions and actual collection and charge-off
      experience. 

Lafayette
      Savings' primary market area for lending is Tippecanoe County, Indiana. When

9 

evaluating
      the adequacy of allowance, consideration is given to this regional geographic
      concentration and the closely associated effect of changing economic conditions
      on Lafayette Savings' customers. 

Mortgage
      Servicing Rights   

Mortgage
      servicing rights (MSRs) associated with loans originated and sold, where
      servicing is retained, are capitalized and included in other intangible assets
      in the consolidated balance sheet. The value of the capitalized servicing rights
      represents the present value of the future servicing fees arising from the
      right
      to service loans in the portfolio. Critical accounting policies for MSRs relate
      to the initial valuation and subsequent impairment tests. The methodology used
      to determine the valuation of MSRs requires the development and use of a number
      of estimates, including anticipated principal amortization and prepayments
      of
      that principal balance. Events that may significantly affect the estimates
      used
      are changes in interest rates, mortgage loan prepayment speeds and the payment
      performance of the underlying loans. The carrying value of the MSRs is
      periodically reviewed for impairment based on a determination of fair value.
      For
      purposes of measuring impairment, the servicing rights are compared to a
      valuation prepared based on a discounted cash flow methodology, utilizing
      current prepayment speeds and discount rates. Impairment, if any, is recognized
      through a valuation allowance and is recorded as amortization of intangible
      assets. 

Financial
      Condition  

Financial
      Condition at December 31, 2005 compared to Financial Condition at December
      31,
      2004.        

10 

Referring
        to the chart above, the net balance in our loan portfolio increased by $12.0
        million from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005. The decrease in residential
        mortgage loans is primarily due to the run-off in fixed rate mortgage loans
        and
        the increased competition to originate residential mortgage loans with 377
        entities having originated residential loans in the Tippecanoe County
        Metropolitan Statistical Area in 2004 according to the Federal Financial
        Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) report based on Home Mortgage
        Disclosure Act (HMDA) information they collected. The increase in other real
        estate loans, which includes multi-family, land and land development,
        construction and commercial real estate loans was primarily from local lending
        and the result of a successful commercial loan contact program. Participation
        loans decreased slightly over the twelve month period. We typically participate
        in loans with banks in our market area or with which we have an established
        relationship. The loans are underwritten using the same criteria as for loans
        we
        originate internally. Generally the participations are designed to keep the
        lead
        bank within regulatory limits for loans to one borrower.  

Comparing
        the loan sales in 2005 with that of the prior year, we sold fixed rate loans
        with servicing rights retained totaling $29.0 million in 2004 and $19.2 million
        in 2005. These sales of primarily 15- to 30-year fixed rate loans were sold
        on
        the secondary market based upon asset/liability management considerations.
        See
 Asset/Liability Management.  Adjustable rate loans were retained in our loan
        portfolio. 

The
      $4.5
      million increase in our securities and short-term investments was done to
      replenish short-term investments used for day-to-day liquidity needs and
      maintain a laddered security portfolio for longer-term liquidity purposes.
      We
      monitor cash in-clearings and outflows on a daily basis to maximize to avoid
      having a surplus of cash on a day-to-day basis. 

Deposit
      balances increased by $9.4 million from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005.
      This increase was due primarily to the increase in brokered deposits, desirable
      because of their competitive cost, their availability and their predictability.
      This increase was offset by a decrease in other deposits, primarily from our
      money market accounts as depositors look for higher rates in other types of
      investments.  

We
      utilize advances available through the Federal Home Loan Bank to provide
      additional funding for loan growth as well as for asset/liability management
      purposes. At December 31, 2005, we had $72.0 million in FHLB advances
      outstanding. Based on the collateral we currently have listed under a blanket
      collateral arrangement with the Federal Home Loan Bank we could borrow up to
      $8.1 million in additional advances. We have other collateral available if
      needed.  

11 

These
        advances are generally available on the same day as requested and allow us
        the
        flexibility of keeping our daily cash balances lower than we otherwise
        might. 

Non-performing
      assets, which include non-accruing loans, accruing loans 90 days past due and
      foreclosed assets, increased from $5.9 million at December 31, 2004 to $10.6
      million at December 31, 2005. Non-performing assets at December 31, 2005
      consisted of $7.7 million of loans on residential real estate, $2.8 million
      of
      loans on land or commercial property, $8,000 of commercial business loans and
      $7,000 of non-accruing consumer loans. Non-performing assets also include $2.0
      million foreclosed assets. At December 31, 2005, our allowance for loan losses
      equaled 0.85% of total loans (including loans held for sale) compared to 0.65%
      at December 31, 2004. The allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2005 totaled
      27.00% of nonperforming assets compared to 35.51% at December 31, 2004, and
      33.32% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2005 compared to 44.66% at
      December 31, 2004. Our non-performing assets equaled 2.83% of total assets
      at
      December 31, 2005 compared to 1.67% at December 31, 2004.  

Non-performing
      assets at December 31, 2005 included $6.9 million in loans that were in
      litigation in addition to foreclosed assets. When a non-performing loan is
      added
      to our classified loan list, an impairment analysis is completed to determine
      expected losses upon final disposition of the property. This analysis is updated
      quarterly. An adjustment to loan loss reserves is made at that time for any
      anticipated losses.  

We
      added
      an additional $450,000 to our loan loss reserves at December 31, 2005, bringing
      the total allocation in the fourth quarter to $725,000. A total of $328,000
      was
      allocated to a single borrower where we have concerns about the borrower s
      liquidity. Because Indiana has the second largest number of bankruptcies in
      the
      nation, the court systems frequently have backlogs in scheduling loan hearings.
      It may take up to two years for a loan to move through the system to the point
      where we can obtain title to and dispose of a property. In addition, the number
      of bankruptcy filings received by the Bank increased in the fourth quarter
      prior
      to the new bankruptcy law taking effect in October 2005. Consequently, although
      the non-performing loan balance remains high, we believe our allowance to be
      adequate to cover any losses upon the final disposition of these loans.

We
      made
      significant progress in obtaining title to foreclosed properties in the final
      quarter of 2005. We also received an agreement to obtain
      deeds-in-lieu-of-foreclosure on 29 rental properties from a borrower not
      previously delinquent or identified as being of concern. As a result,
      non-performing assets totaling $492,000 were charged off in 2005. This along
      with an increase in the unemployment rate and in bankruptcy filings resulted
      in
      an increased allocation to loan loss reserves in the fourth quarter. Although
      we
      believe we use the best information available to determine the adequacy of
      our
      allowance for loan losses, future adjustments to the allowance may be necessary,
      and net income could be significantly affected, if circumstances and/or economic
      conditions cause substantial changes in the estimates we use in making the
      determinations about the levels of the allowance for losses. Additionally,
      various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process,
      periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These agencies may require
      the recognition of additions to the allowance based upon their judgments of
      information available at the time of their examination. The Office
      of 

12 

Thrift
        Supervision, which recently completed an examination of the Bank, also concluded
        that increased reserves are appropriate. 

Shareholders 
      equity increased $2.4 million, or 7.99%, during 2005 primarily as a result
      of
      net income of $3.3 million, partially offset by our payment of dividends on
      common stock and the repurchase of 32,087 shares of our stock as part of a
      stock
      repurchase plan. Shareholders  equity to total assets was 8.81% at December 31,
      2005 compared to 8.56% at December 31, 2004. 

Results
      of Operations  

Our
      results of operations depend primarily on the levels of net interest income,
      which is the difference between the interest income earned on loans and
      securities and other interest earning assets, and the interest expense on
      deposits and borrowed funds. Our results of operation are also dependent upon
      the level of our non-interest income including fee income and service charges,
      gains or losses on the sale of loans and the level of our non-interest expenses,
      including general and administrative expenses. Net interest income is dependent
      upon the volume of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities
      and
      upon the interest rate which is earned or paid on these items. Our results
      of
      operations are also affected by the level of the provision for loan losses.
      We,
      like other financial institutions, are subject to interest rate risk to the
      degree that our interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice at different
      times, or on a different basis, than our interest-earning assets. 

13 

Average
      Balances, Interest Rates and Yields  

The
      following table presents for the periods indicated the total dollar amount
      of
      interest income earned on average interest- earning assets and the resultant
      yields on such assets, as well as the interest expense paid on average
      interest-bearing liabilities, and the rates paid on such liabilities. No tax
      equivalent adjustments were made. All average balances are monthly average
      balances. Non-accruing loans have been included in the table as loans carrying
      a
      zero yield  .

(1)      Calculated
      net of deferred loan fees, loan discounts, loans in process and loss
      reserves.  

14 

Rate/Volume
      Analysis of Net Interest Income  

The
      following table presents the dollar amount of changes in interest income and
      interest expense for the major categories of interest-earning assets and
      interest-bearing liabilities. The change in total interest income and total
      interest expense is allocated between those related to changes in the
      outstanding balances and those due to changes in interest rates. For each
      category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities,
      information is provided on changes attributable to (i) changes in volume (i.e.,
      changes in volume multiplied by old rate) and (ii) changes in rate (i.e.,
      changes in rate multiplied by old volume). For purposes of this table, changes
      attributable to both rate and volume, which cannot be segregated, have been
      allocated proportionately to the change due to volume and change due to
      rate. 

Comparison
      of Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2005 and December 31,
      2004.  

General.    
      Net
      income for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $3.3 million, virtually
      unchanged from net income for the year ended December 31, 2004. While net
      interest income increased $964,000 in 2005 compared to 2004, and non-interest
      income increased by $269,000, these increases were largely offset by a $700,000
      increase in the provision for loan losses and a $557,000 increase in
      non-interest expenses. 

Our
      return on average assets was 0.89% for the year ended 2005, compared to 0.95%
      for the year ended 2004. Return on equity was 10.21% for the year ended 2005,

15 

compared to 11.19% for 2004. During 2005 we paid regular
        quarterly cash dividends on common stock totaling $941,000 for the year,
        or $.64
        per share, representing a dividend payout ratio, dividends declared per share
        divided by diluted net income per share, of approximately
        29%. 

Net
      Interest Income.     Net
      interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased $964,000 over
      the
      same period in 2004. Our net interest margin (net interest income divided by
      average interest-earning assets) increased from 3.32% at December 31, 2004
      to
      3.36% at December 31, 2005. Many of our adjustable rate mortgages started
      adjusting upwards in 2005, although the flat yield curve because of continuing
      low long-term rates is expected to keep the return on fixed rate mortgages
      fairly flat. Interest expenses on deposits, primarily on time accounts,
      increased as expected since many of these deposits are tied to rising
      shorter-term market interest rates. The majority of our longer-term deposits
      had
      already rolled down to lower rates and are likely to remain at that level until
      longer-term market rates begin to increase. Rates on borrowings decreased
      slightly in 2005, but may be expected to increase as interest rates climb
      generally. 

Interest
      income on loans increased $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
      compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. The average volume of loans in
      our
      portfolio increased by $27.1 million while the average yield increased from
      6.18% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 6.34% for the year ended December
      31, 2005. We expect to see somewhat slower growth in our loan portfolio in
      2006
      with higher mortgage interest rates, a slightly weaker local economy and concern
      that segments of the economy may be overbuilt. We expect moderate growth in
      our
      commercial and multi-family real estate, commercial business and home equity
      loan production as a result of our call program and the increased capacity
      of
      our commercial loan back office. It is also our intention to keep some of our
      shorter-term fixed rate residential mortgages in our portfolio. There was also
      an increase in interest income on investments as we increased the size of that
      portfolio, and replaced maturing investments with higher yielding
      products. 

Interest
      expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased $1.3 million over the
      same period in 2004. This increase was primarily due to an increase in the
      average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities from 2.69% in 2004 to 2.89%
      in
      2005, reflecting the generally higher interest rates over the period, and by
      an
      increase of $21.6 million in average interest-bearing liabilities. Specifically,
      the higher interest expense was primarily caused by a $1.3 million increase
      in
      interest on time accounts from an increase in average balance of $19.3 million
      and an increase in average rate from 2.94% to 3.33%. This higher expense was
      offset slightly by a $27,000 decrease in the cost of Federal Home Loan Bank
      advances resulting primarily from a 24 basis point decrease in the average
      rate
      offset by a $2.9 million increase in the average balance.  

Provision
      for Loan Losses    .
      We
      establish our provision for loan losses based on a systematic analysis of risk
      factors in the loan portfolio. The analysis includes consideration of
      concentrations of credit, past loss experience, current economic 

16 

conditions, the amount and composition of the loan portfolio,
        estimated fair value of the underlying collateral, delinquencies and other
        relevant factors. From time to time, we also use the services of a consultant
        to
        assist in the evaluation of our growing commercial real estate loan
        portfolio  .
           On
        at
        least a quarterly basis, a formal analysis of the adequacy of the allowance
        is
        prepared and reviewed by management and the Board of Directors. This analysis
        serves as a point in time assessment of the level of the allowance and serves
        as
        a basis for provisions for loan losses.  

More
      specifically, our analysis of the loan portfolio will begin at the time the
      loan
      is originated, at which time each loan is assigned a risk rating. If the loan
      is
      a commercial credit, the borrower will also be assigned a similar rating. Loans
      that continue to perform as agreed will be included in one of ten non-classified
      loan categories. Portions of the allowance are allocated to loan portfolios
      in
      the various risk grades, based upon a variety of factors including, historical
      loss experience, trends in the type and volume of the loan portfolios, trends
      in
      delinquent and non-performing loans, and economic trends affecting our market.
      Loans no longer performing as agreed are assigned a higher risk rating,
      eventually resulting in their being regarded as classified loans. A collateral
      re-evaluation is completed on all classified loans. This process results in
      the
      allocation of specific amounts of the allowance to individual problem loans,
      generally based on an analysis of the collateral securing those loans. These
      components are added together and compared to the balance of our allowance
      at
      the evaluation date. 

Non-classified
      loan categories include first mortgage loans on the following types of
      properties: one- to four-family owner occupied, one- to four-family non-owner
      occupied, multi-family, non-residential, land and land development, and
      construction. Additional categories include: second mortgage and home equity
      loans, unsecured commercial business loans, secured commercial business loans,
      and consumer loans.  

We
      recorded a $1.2 million provision for loan losses during 2005 as a result of
      our
      analysis of our current loan portfolios, compared to $500,000 during 2004.
      We
      added an additional $450,000 to our loan loss reserves at December 31, 2005,
      bringing the total allocation in the fourth quarter to $725,000. A total of
      $328,000 was allocated to a single borrower where we have concerns about the
      borrower s liquidity. The increased provision during 2005 was necessary to
      maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level considered adequate to absorb
      losses inherent in the loan portfolio and cover anticipated charge-offs. The
      Office of Thrift Supervision, which recently completed an examination of the
      Bank, also concluded that increased reserves are appropriate. The increase
      in
      bankruptcy filings in the fourth quarter prior to the change in the bankruptcy
      laws in October 2005, the increase in unemployment rates in Tippecanoe County
      and the adverse effect of increased property tax assessments are all indications
      of a slowdown in the local economy. During the year 2005, we charged $492,000
      against loan loss reserves on 29 loans either written off or taken into other
      real estate owned. We expect to obtain possession of many properties in 2006
      that are currently in the process of foreclosure. The final disposition of
      these
      properties may be expected to result in a loss in some cases. The $1.2 million
      provision for loan losses in 2005 was considered adequate to cover further
      charge-offs based on our evaluation and our loan mix.  

17 

At
      December 31, 2005 non-performing assets, consisting of non-accruing loans,
      accruing loans 90 or more days delinquent and other real estate owned, totaled
      $10.6 million compared to $5.9 million at December 31, 2004. In addition to
      our
      non-performing assets, we identified $2.0 million other loans of concern where
      known information about possible credit problems of borrowers causes management
      to have doubts as to the ability of the borrowers to comply with present
      repayment terms and that may result in disclosure of such loans as
      non-performing assets in the future. The vast majority of these loans, as well
      as our non-performing assets, are well collateralized. 

At
      December 31, 2005, we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate
      to
      absorb estimated probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Our allowance
      for losses equaled 0.85% of net loans receivable and 27.00% of non-performing
      assets at December 31, 2005 compared to 0.65% and 35.38% at December 31, 2004,
      respectively.  

Non-Interest
      Income.    
      Non-interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased by $269,000
      or 12.01% compared to the same period in 2004. The increase was primarily due
      to
      a $534,000 increase in fees on deposit accounts largely the result of the
      introduction of our Courtesy Coverage Program that allows qualified customers
      to
      overdraw their checking account by up to $500 for a $30 per overdraft fee.
      The
      increase was partially offset by a $271,000 decrease in gains on the sale of
      mortgage loans in the secondary market due to a $9.8 million decrease in loans
      sold.  

Non-Interest
      Expense.    
      Non-interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased $557,000
      over the same period in 2004. The major components of this increase included
      a
      $135,000 increase in salaries and employee benefits due primarily to increased
      compliance staffing and increased health insurance costs, and a $330,000
      increase in other expenses including costs of maintaining foreclosed properties
      and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance costs.  

Income
      Tax Expense.    
      The
      Company s income tax provision decreased by $28,000 for the year ended December
      31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 primarily as a result
      of
      tax savings relating to our Bank Owned Life Insurance program and increased
      lending in an area in Lafayette designated as an urban enterprise zone,
      qualifying for enterprise zone tax credits. 

Financial
      Condition at December 31, 2004 compared to Financial Condition at December
      31,
      2003.  

The
      balance of our net loan portfolio increased by $41.4 million from December
      31,
      2003 to December 31, 2004. The growth in residential mortgage loans is primarily
      due to the increased borrower interest in adjustable rate mortgage loans, which
      we keep in our portfolio. The increase in other real estate loans, which
      includes multi-family, land and land development, construction and commercial
      real estate loans, was augmented by a $6.8 million increase in participation
      loans. We typically participate in loans with banks in our market area or with
      which we have an established relationship. The loans 

18 

are
          underwritten using the same criteria as for loans we originate internally.
          Generally the participations are designed to keep the lead bank within
          regulatory limits for loans to one borrower. In 2004, we also hired another
          commercial loan officer with experience in commercial business loans, which
          accounts for the increase in those loans. 

Comparing
      the loan sales in 2004 with that of prior years, we sold fixed rate loans with
      servicing rights retained totaling $53.1 million in 2002 and $113.4 million
      in
      2003, compared with $29.0 million in 2004. These 15- to 30-year fixed rate
      loans
      were sold on the secondary market based upon asset/liability management
      considerations. See  Asset/ Liability Management.  Adjustable rate loans were
      retained in our loan portfolio. 

The
      $6.8
      million decrease in our securities and short-term investments was done to
      minimize low interest earning short-term investments used for day-to-day
      liquidity needs while maintaining a laddered security portfolio for longer-term
      liquidity purposes. We monitor cash in-clearings and outflows on a daily basis
      to maximize to avoid having a surplus of cash on a day-to-day
      basis. 

Deposit
      balances increased by $31.1 million from December 31, 2003 to December 31,
      2004.
      This increase was due primarily to the increase in brokered deposits, desirable
      because of their competitive cost, their availability and their predictability;
      and by an increase in core deposits, including a $3.7 million increase in our
      Money Market Deposit Account as depositors were attracted to the comparatively
      higher rates combined with the access available with a money market account,
      a
      $1.9 million increase in non-interest earning deposit accounts largely tied
      to
      our commercial lending relationships, and a $1.0 million increase in DDA
      accounts. 

We
      utilize advances available through the Federal Home Loan Bank to provide
      additional funding for loan growth as well as for asset/liability management
      purposes. At December 31, 2004, we had $66.8 million in FHLB advances
      outstanding. Based on the collateral we currently have listed under a blanket
      collateral arrangement with the Federal Home Loan Bank we could borrow up to
      $16.3 million in additional advances. Other collateral is available if needed.
      These advances are available on the same day requested and allow us the
      flexibility of keeping our daily cash balances lower than we otherwise
      might. 

Non-performing
      assets, which include non-accruing loans, accruing loans 90 days past due and
      foreclosed assets, increased from $4.6 million at December 31, 2003 to $5.9
      million at December 31, 2004. Non-performing loans at December 31, 2004
      consisted of $3.3 million of loans on residential real estate, $1.1 million
      of
      loans on land or commercial property, $262,000 of commercial business loans
      and
      $34,000 of non-accruing consumer loans. Non-performing assets also include
      $1.2
      million foreclosed assets. At December 31, 2004, our allowance for loan losses
      equaled 0.65% of total loans (including loans held for sale) compared to 1.10%
      at December 31, 2003. The allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2004 totaled
      35.38% of nonperforming assets compared to 67.55% at December 31, 2003, and
      44.66% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2004 compared to 72.96% at
      December 31, 2003. Our non-performing  

19 

assets equaled 1.67% of total assets at December 31, 2004 compared
          to 1.44%
          at December 31, 2003. 

Non-performing
      assets at December 31, 2004 included $3.4 million in loans that were in
      litigation. Because Indiana has the second largest number of bankruptcies in
      the
      nation, the court systems frequently have backlogs in scheduling loan hearings.
      It may take up to two years for a loan to move through the system to the point
      where we can obtain title to and dispose of a property. When a non-performing
      loan is added to our classified loan list, an impairment analysis is completed
      to determine expected losses upon final disposition of the property. This
      analysis is updated quarterly. An adjustment to loan loss reserves is made
      at
      that time for any anticipated losses. Consequently, although the non-performing
      loan balance remains high, we believe our allowance to be adequate to cover
      any
      losses upon the final disposition of these loans.  

Non-performing
      assets totaling $1.5 million were charged off in 2004. These charge-offs were
      largely covered by existing reserves and, based on management s analysis, no
      additional provisions to the allowance were necessary for the amounts charged
      off.  

Shareholders 
      equity increased $2.7 million, or 9.62%, during 2004 primarily as a result
      of
      net income of $3.3 million, partially offset by our payment of dividends on
      common stock and the repurchase of 6,300 shares of our stock as part of a stock
      repurchase plan. Shareholders  equity to total assets was 8.56% at December 31,
      2004 compared to 8.68% at December 31, 2003. 

Comparison
      of Operating Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and December 31,
      2003.  

General.    
      Net
      income for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $3.3 million, an increase of
      $315,000 over net income for the year ended December 31, 2003. This increase
      was
      primarily due to a $329,000 increase in net interest income, a $725,000 decrease
      in the provision for loan losses and a $188,000 decrease in non-interest
      expenses partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease in the gain on sale of
      mortgage loans. 

Our
      return on average assets was 0.95% for the year ended 2004, compared to 0.94%
      for the year ended 2003. Return on equity was 11.19% for the year ended 2004,
      compared to 11.03% for 2003. During 2004 we paid regular quarterly cash
      dividends on common stock totaling $801,000 for the year, or $.56 per share,
      representing a dividend payout ratio, dividends declared per share divided
      by
      diluted net income per share, of approximately 25%. 

Net
      Interest Income.     Net
      interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $329,000 over
      the
      same period in 2003. Our net interest margin (net interest income divided by
      average interest-earning assets) decreased from 3.50% where it had been at
      both
      December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2003 to 3.32% at December 31, 2004.

20 

Interest
      income on loans increased $434,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared
      to the year ended December 31, 2003. Although the average volume of loans in
      our
      portfolio increased by $35.6 million from December 31, 2003 to December 31,
      2004, the continuing low market rates resulted in lower rates for both new
      loans
      and on the adjustments for variable rate mortgages resulting in a decrease
      in
      the yield on loans from 6.84% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 6.18%
      for
      the year ended December 31, 2004. There was also a decrease in interest income
      on investments as we decreased the size of that portfolio, taking advantage
      of
      the opportunity to invest that money in higher yielding mortgages. 

Interest
      expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $113,000 over the same
      period in 2003. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in the rate paid
      on interest-bearing liabilities from 2.98% in 2003 to 2.69% in 2004, reflecting
      the generally lower interest rates over the period, partially offset by an
      increase of $26.0 million in average interest-bearing liabilities. The higher
      interest expense of $152,000 on the average balance of customer deposit accounts
      was primarily due to the $18.5 million increase in the average balance in time
      accounts offset somewhat by a 28 basis point decrease in the average yield.
      This
      higher expense was offset by a $265,000 decrease in the cost of Federal Home
      Loan Bank advances resulting primarily from a 66 basis point decrease in the
      average rate.  

Provision
      for Loan Losses    .
      We
      recorded a $500,000 provision for loan losses during 2004 as a result of our
      analysis of our current loan portfolios compared to $1.2 million during 2003.
      The increased provision during 2003 was necessary to maintain the allowance
      for
      loan losses at a level considered adequate to absorb losses inherent in the
      loan
      portfolio and cover anticipated charge-offs. During the year 2004 we recorded
      charge-offs of $1.5 million. The $500,000 provision for loan losses in 2004
      was
      considered adequate to cover further charge-offs based on our evaluation and
      our
      loan mix. 

At
      December 31, 2004, non-performing assets, consisting of non-accruing loans,
      accruing loans 90 or more days delinquent and other real estate owned, totaled
      $5.9 million compared to $4.6 million at December 31, 2003. In addition to
      our
      non-performing assets, we identified $9.8 million of other loans of concern
      where known information about possible credit problems of borrowers causes
      management to have serious doubts as to the ability of the borrowers to comply
      with present repayment terms and that may result in disclosure of such loans
      as
      non-performing assets in the future. The vast majority of these loans, as well
      as our non-performing assets, are well collateralized. 

At
      December 31, 2004, we believe that our allowance for loan losses was adequate
      to
      absorb estimated probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Our allowance
      for losses equaled 0.65% of net loans receivable and 35.38% of non-performing
      assets at December 31, 2004 compared to 1.12% and 67.57% at December 31, 2003,
      respectively.  

21 

Non-Interest
      Income.    
      Non-interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased by $1.1
      million, or 32.26% compared to the same period in 2003. The decrease was
      primarily due to a $1.2 million decrease in gains on the sale of mortgage loans
      in the secondary market due to a $84.8 million decrease in loans sold. The
      increase in loan sales in 2003 was due to the increased mortgage refinance
      activity as borrowers sought to lock in lower-rate, fixed-rate mortgages. For
      interest rate risk reasons we sell fixed-rate residential mortgages on the
      secondary market. The decrease in gains on loan sales was partially offset
      by a
      $69,000 increase in service charges on deposit accounts and a $70,000 increase
      in other non-interest income, primarily the result of an increase in the value
      of our Bank Owned Life Insurance.  

Non-Interest
      Expense.    
      Non-interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $188,000
      over the same period in 2003. The major components of this decrease included
      a
      $186,000 decrease in salaries and employee benefits partly due to the decreased
      lending activity, and to the termination of an incentive program. 

Income
      Tax Expense.    
      The
      Company s income tax provision decreased by $140,000 for the year ended December
      31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 primarily as a result
      of
      tax savings relating to our Bank Owned Life Insurance program and increased
      lending in an area in Lafayette designated as an urban enterprise zone,
      qualifying for enterprise zone tax credits. 

Asset/Liability
      Management     

We,
      like
      other financial institutions, are subject to interest rate risk to the extent
      that our interest-bearing liabilities reprice on a different basis than our
      interest-earning assets. The Office of Thrift Supervision ( OTS ), our primary
      regulator, supports the use of a net portfolio value ( NPV ) approach to the
      quantification of interest rate risk. In essence, this approach calculates
      the
      difference between the present value of expected cash flows from assets and
      the
      present value of expected cash flows from liabilities, as well as cash flows
      from off-balance-sheet contracts. An NPV ratio, in any interest rate scenario,
      is defined as the NPV in that rate scenario divided by the market value of
      assets in the same scenario essentially a market value adjusted capital
      ratio. 

It
      has
      been and continues to be a priority of the Board of Directors and management
      to
      manage interest rate risk to maintain an acceptable level of potential changes
      to interest income as a result of interest rate changes. Our asset/liability
      policy, established by the Board of Directors, sets forth acceptable limits
      on
      the amount of change in net portfolio value given certain changes in interest
      rates. We have an asset/liability management committee which meets quarterly
      to
      review our interest rate position, and an investment committee which reviews
      the
      interest rate risk position and other related matters with the Board of
      Directors, and makes recommendations for adjusting this position to the full
      Board of Directors. In addition, the investment committee of the Board of
      Directors meets semi-annually with our outside investment advisors to review
      our
      investment portfolio and strategies relating to interest rate risk.

22 

S pecific
          strategies have included the sale of long-term, fixed rate loans to reduce
          the
          average maturity of our interest-earning assets and the use of Federal
          Home Loan
          Bank advances to lengthen the effective maturity of our interest-bearing
          liabilities. In the future, our community banking emphasis, including the
          origination of commercial business loans, is intended to further increase
          our
          portfolio of short-term and/or adjustable rate loans. 

Presented
      below, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, is an analysis of our interest rate
      risk as measured by the effect on NPV caused by instantaneous and sustained
      parallel shifts in the yield curve, in 100 basis point increments, up and down
      300 basis points, and compared to our Board policy limits. (One hundred basis
      points equals one percent.) The Board Limit column indicates the lowest
      allowable limits for NPV after each interest rate shock. Assumptions used in
      calculating the amounts in this table are OTS assumptions. No information is
      provided for a negative 300 basis point shift in interest rates, due to a low
      prevailing interest rate environment making such scenarios
      unlikely. 

In
      evaluating our exposure to interest rate risk, certain shortcomings inherent
      in
      the method of analysis presented in the foregoing table must be noted. For
      example, although certain assets and liabilities may have similar maturities
      or
      periods to repricing, they may react in different degrees to changes in market
      interest rates. Also, the interest rates on certain types of assets and
      liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while
      interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. Further,
      in the event of a change in interest rates, prepayments and early withdrawal
      levels may deviate significantly from those assumed in calculating the table.
      Finally, the ability of many borrowers to service their debt may decrease in
      the
      event of an interest rate increase. As a result, the actual effect of changing
      interest rates may differ from that presented in the foregoing
      table. 

Liquidity
      and Capital Resources  

Our
      primary sources of funds are deposits, repayment and prepayment of loans,
      interest earned on or maturation of investment securities and short-term
      investments, borrowings and funds provided from operations. While maturities
      and
      the scheduled amortization of loans, investments and mortgage-backed securities
      are a predictable source of funds, deposit flows and mortgage prepayments are
      greatly influenced by general market interest rates, economic conditions and
      competition. 

23 

We
      monitor our cash flow carefully and strive to minimize the level of cash held
      in
      low rate overnight accounts or in cash on hand. We also carefully track the
      scheduled delivery of loans committed for sale to be added to our cash flow
      calculations. 

Our
      primary investing activities are the origination of loans and the purchase
      of
      securities. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Bank originated loans
      totaling $123.2 million. These investment activities were funded primarily
      by
      principal repayments and prepayments on loans and maturities of investment
      securities totaling $87.7 million. The proceeds from the sale of loans totaled
      $19.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. We sold one security for
      $1.4 million in 2004. There were no security sales in 2005. 

The
      major
      sources of cash from financing activities in the year ended December 31, 2005
      was an increase in deposits of $9.4 million and an increase in borrowings of
      $5.2 million. We currently use, and intend to continue to use, Federal Home
      Loan
      Bank advances as a source of funding for loans when advantageous interest rate
      risk matches can be found.  

Liquidity
      management is both a daily and long-term function for our senior management.
      We
      adjust our investment strategy, within the limits established by the investment
      policy, based upon assessments of expected loan demand, expected cash flows,
      Federal Home Loan Bank advance opportunities, market yields and the objectives
      of our asset/liability management program. Base levels of liquidity have
      generally been invested in interest-earning overnight and time deposits with
      the
      Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis. Funds for which a demand is not foreseen
      in the near future are invested in investment and other securities for the
      purpose of yield enhancement and asset/liability management. 

Our
      current internal policy for liquidity is 4%. Our liquidity ratio at December
      31,
      2005 was 4.87% as a percentage of total assets. 

We
      anticipate that we will have sufficient funds available to meet current loan
      commitments. At December 31, 2005, we had outstanding commitments to originate
      loans and available lines of credit totaling $58.2 million and commitments
      to
      provide borrowers the funds needed to complete current construction projects
      in
      the amount of $5.5 million. Certificates of deposit that will mature in one
      year
      or less at December 31, 2005 totaled $78.8 million. Based on our experience,
      our
      certificates of deposit have been a relatively stable source of long-term funds
      as such certificates are generally renewed upon maturity since we have
      established long-term banking relationships with our customers. Therefore,
      we
      believe a significant portion of such deposits will remain with us, although
      this cannot be assured. 

LSB
      Financial also has a need for, and sources of liquidity. Liquidity is required
      to fund our operating expenses, fund stock repurchase programs, as well as
      for
      the payment of dividends to shareholders. At December 31, 2005, LSB Financial
      had $646,000 in liquid assets on hand. The primary source of liquidity on an
      ongoing basis is dividends from 

24 

Lafayette
        Savings. Dividends totaling $2.1 million were paid from the Bank to LSB
        Financial during the year ended December 31, 2005. For the year ended December
        31, 2005, LSB Financial paid dividends to shareholders totaling
        $941,000. 

Regulatory
      agencies have established capital adequacy standards which are used in their
      monitoring and control of the industry. These standards relate capital to levels
      of risk by assigning different weightings to assets and certain
      off-balance-sheet activity. As shown in the footnote to the consolidated
      financial statements ( Regulatory Matters ), our capital levels exceed the
      requirements to be considered well capitalized at December 31,
      2005. 

Off-Balance-Sheet
      Arrangements  

As
      of the
      date of this Annual Report, we do not have any off-balance-sheet arrangements
      that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our
      financial condition, change in financial condition, revenues or expenses,
      results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources
      that
      are material to investors. The term  off-balance-sheet arrangement  generally
      means any transaction, agreement, or other contractual arrangement to which
      any
      entity unconsolidated with the Company is a party and under which the Company
      has (i) any obligation arising under a guarantee contract, derivative instrument
      or variable interest; or (ii) a retained or contingent interest in assets
      transferred to such entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit,
      liquidity or market risk support for such assets. 

See
      Note
      16 to the consolidated financial statements regarding off-balance-sheet
      commitments. 

Contractual
        Obligations  

The
      Company s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 are summarized in
      the following table. 

(1) 

Long
                term debt includes FHLB advances and subordinated debentures. See
 Notes
                to Consolidated Financial Statements - Federal Home Loan Bank Advances 
                contained in Note 8, for information related to collateral and amounts
                with various options. 

25 

(2) 

LSB
                Financial Corp. had no capital
                leases. 

(3) 

Operating
                leases includes a contract for data processing
                services. 

(4) 

LSB
                Financial Corp. had no outstanding purchase
                obligations. 

(5) 

LSB
                Financial Corp. had no outstanding dividends
                declared. 

(6) 

For
                information regarding the contractual maturities of deposit liabilities,
                which are not included in the above table, see  Notes to Consolidated
                Financial Statements - Deposits,  contained in Note
                7. 

Impact
      of Accounting Changes  

Future
      Accounting Matters    

Share-Based
      Compensation.     In
      December, 2004, FASB issued an amendment to SFAS 123 (SFAS 123R), which
      eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions
      using Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,    Accounting
      for Stock Issued to Employees   ,
      and
      generally requires that such transactions be accounted for using a fair
      value-based method. On April 14, 2005, the SEC amended the compliance date
      for
      SFAS 123R from the beginning of the first interim or annual period that begins
      after June 15, 2005 to the next fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005.
      The
      Company adopted SFAS 123R as of January 1, 2006. The effect on the Company s
      results of operations depends on the level of future option grants and the
      calculation of the fair value of the options granted at such future date, as
      well as the vesting periods provided and possible performance condition
      requirements, and so cannot currently be predicted for future awards.

SFAS
      123R
      applies to all awards granted after the effective date and to awards modified,
      repurchased, or cancelled after that date. The statement establishes standards
      for accounting for share-based payment transactions. Share-based payment
      transactions are those in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments
      for
      goods or services or in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for
      goods
      or services that are based on the fair value of the entity s equity instruments
      or that may be settled by the issuance of these equity instruments. SFAS 123R
      covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including stock
      options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation
      rights and employee stock purchase plans.  

As
      of
      January 1, 2006, the Company applied SFAS 123R using the modified prospective
      method. This method requires that compensation expense be recorded for all
      unvested stock options and restricted stock awards over the requisite service
      period (generally the vesting schedule). For liability-classified awards, the
        Company
      measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award based
      on its current fair value. The fair value is re-measured subsequently at each
      reporting date through the settlement date, and changes in fair value are
      recognized as compensation cost. For equity-classified awards, the grant date
      fair value is recognized in earnings over the requisite service period.

26 

Earnings
      Per Share.     The
      FASB
      has issued a proposed amendment to SFAS 128, Earnings Per Share, to clarify
      guidance for mandatorily convertible instruments, the treasury stock method,
      contingently issuable shares, and contracts that may be settled in cash or
      share. The primary impact on the Company of the proposed Statement is the change
      to the treasury stock method for year-to-date diluted earnings per share.

Currently
      SFAS 128 requires that the number of incremental shares included in the
      denominator be determined by computing a year-to-date weighted average of the
      number of incremental shares included in each quarterly diluted earnings per
      share computation. Under this proposed Statement, the number of incremental
      shares included in year-to-date diluted earnings per share would be computed
      using the average market price of common shares for the year-to-date period,
      independent of the quarterly computations. This computational change is not
      expected to have a significant impact on the Company s diluted earnings per
      share. 

27 

Impact
      of Inflation and Changing Prices  

The
      consolidated financial statements presented herein have been prepared in
      accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These principles
      require the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms
      of
      historical dollars, without considering changes in the relative purchasing
      power
      of money over time due to inflation.  

The
      Company s primary assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result,
      interest rates have a more significant impact on our performance than the
      effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates, however, do not
      necessarily move in the same direction or with the same magnitude as the price
      of goods and services, since such prices are affected by inflation. In a period
      of rapidly rising interest rates, the liquidity and maturities structures of
      our
      assets and liabilities are critical to the maintenance of acceptable performance
      levels.  

The
      principal effect of inflation, as distinct from levels of interest rates, on
      earnings is in the area of noninterest expense. Such expense items as employee
      compensation, employee benefits and occupancy and equipment costs may be subject
      to increases as a result of inflation. An additional effect of inflation is
      the
      possible increase in the dollar value of the collateral securing loans that
      the
      Company has made. The Company is unable to determine the extent, if any, to
      which properties securing our loans have appreciated in dollar value due to
      inflation. 

Quarterly
      Results of Operations   

28 

DISCLOSURE
      REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

This
      document, including information included or incorporated by reference, contains,
      and future filings by LSB Financial on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and
      future oral and written statements by LSB Financial and our management may
      contain, forward-looking statements about LSB Financial and its subsidiaries
      which we believe are within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
      Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, without
      limitation, statements with respect to anticipated future operating and
      financial performance, growth opportunities, interest rates, cost savings and
      funding advantages expected or anticipated to be realized by management. Words
      such as may, could, should, would, believe, anticipate, estimate, expect,
      intend, plan and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
      statements. Forward-looking statements by LSB Financial and its management
      are
      based on beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, anticipations,
      estimates and intentions of management and are not guarantees of future
      performance. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking
      statements based on the occurrence of future events, the receipt of new
      information or otherwise. The important factors we discuss below and elsewhere
      in this document, as well as other factors discussed under the caption
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations  in this document and identified in our filings with the SEC and
      those presented elsewhere by our management from time to time, could cause
      actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking
      statements made in this document. 

The
      following factors, many of which are subject to change based on various other
      factors beyond our control, could cause our financial performance to differ
      materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions
      expressed in such forward-looking statements: 

the
                strength of the United States economy in general and the strength
                of the
                local economies in which we conduct our
                operations; 

the
                effects of, and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies and
                laws;
                including interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve
                Board; 

financial
                market, monetary and interest rate fluctuations, particularly the
                relative
                relationship of short-term interest rates to long-term interest
                rates; 

the
                timely development of and acceptance of new products and services
                of
                Lafayette Savings and the perceived overall value of these products
                and
                services by users, including the features, pricing and quality compared
                to
                competitors  products and services; 

the
                willingness of users to substitute competitors  products and services for
                our products and services; 

the
                impact of changes in financial services  laws and regulations (including
                laws concerning taxes, accounting standards, banking, securities
                and
                insurance); 

the
                impact of technological changes; 

acquisitions; 

changes
                in consumer spending and saving habits;
                and 

our
                success at managing the risks involved in the
                foregoing. 

29 

REPORT
        OF
        INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Board
        of
        Directors 

        LSB
        Financial Corp. 

        Lafayette,
        Indiana 

We
        have
        audited the accompanying consolidated statement of income, changes in
        shareholders  equity and cash flows of LSB Financial Corp. for the year ended
        December 31, 2003. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
        Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
        financial statements based on our audit. 

We
        conducted our audit in accordance with   the
        standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
        States)  .
        Those
        standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
        assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
        misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
        the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
        assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
        management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
        We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
        opinion. 

In
        our
        opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
        fairly,
        in all material respects, the results of operations and cash flows of LSB
        Financial Corp. for the year ended December 31, 2003 in conformity with
        U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 

Crowe
        Chizek and Company LLC 

Indianapolis,
        Indiana 

        January
        23, 2004 

30 

Report
        of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

Audit
        Committee, Board of Directors and Stockholders 

        LSB
        Financial Corp. 

        Lafayette,
        Indiana 

We
        have
        audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of LSB Financial Corp.
        as
        of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of
        income, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the two years in the
        period ended December 31, 2005. These financial statements are the
        responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
        opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 

We
        conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
        Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
        we plan
        and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
        statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
        on a
        test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
        statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
        and
        significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
        financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
        reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In
        our
        opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
        fairly,
        in all material respects, the financial position of LSB Financial Corp. as
        of
        December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations and its cash
        flows
        for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity
        with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
        America.  

Indianapolis,
      Indiana 

      February
      24, 2006 

31 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Consolidated
      Balance Sheets  

       December
      31, 2005 and 2004  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Assets  

See
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

32 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Consolidated
      Statements of Income  

       Years
      Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

See
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

33 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Consolidated
      Statements of Stockholders  Equity  

       Years
      Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)  

See
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

34 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows  

       Years
      Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

See
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

35 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Note
              1:     
             
                 Nature
                of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting
                Policies  

Nature
      of Operations   

LSB
      Financial Corp. ( Company ) is a thrift holding company whose principal activity
      is the ownership and management of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Lafayette
      Savings Bank (the  Bank ). The Bank is primarily engaged in providing a full
      range of banking and financial services to individual and corporate customers
      in
      Tippecanoe and surrounding counties in Indiana. The Bank is subject to
      competition from other financial institutions. The Bank is subject to the
      regulation of certain federal and state agencies and undergoes periodic
      examinations by those regulatory authorities. 

The
      Bank s wholly-owned subsidiaries, LSB Service Corporation (LSBSC) and Lafayette
      Insurance and Investments, Inc. (LI I) provide various financial services to
      its customers. A substantial portion of the loan portfolio is secured by single
      and multi-family residential mortgages. 

Principles
      of Consolidation   

The
      consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, the
      Bank,
      LSBSC and LI I. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have
      been eliminated in consolidation. 

Use
      of Estimates   

The
      preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
      generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make
      estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
      liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
      of
      the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
      during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
      estimates. 

Material
      estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to
      the
      determination of the allowance for loan losses, fair value of servicing rights
      and financial instruments. In connection with the determination of the allowance
      for loan losses, management obtains independent appraisals for significant
      properties. 

Cash
      Equivalents   

The
      Company considers all liquid investments with original maturities of three
      months or less to be cash equivalents. 

36 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Securities   

Available-for-sale
      securities, which include any security for which the Company has no immediate
      plan to sell but which may be sold in the future, are carried at fair value.
      Unrealized gains and losses are recorded, net of related income tax effects,
      in
      other comprehensive income.  

Amortization
      of premiums and accretion of discounts are recorded as interest income from
      securities. Realized gains and losses are recorded as net security gains
      (losses). Gains and losses on sales of securities are determined on the
      specific-identification method. 

Loans
      Held for Sale   

Mortgage
      loans originated and intended for sale in the secondary market are carried
      at
      the lower of cost or fair value in the aggregate. Net unrealized losses, if
      any,
      are recognized through a valuation allowance by charges to income. 

Loans   

Loans
      that management has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future
      or
      until maturity or payoffs are reported at their outstanding principal balances
      adjusted for any charge-offs, the allowance for loan losses, any deferred fees
      or costs on originated loans and unamortized premiums or discounts on purchased
      loans. Interest income is reported on the interest method and includes
      amortization of net deferred loan fees and costs over the loan term. Generally,
      loans are placed on non-accrual status at ninety days past due and interest
      is
      considered a loss, unless the loan is well-secured. Accrued interest for loans
      placed on non-accrual status is reversed against interest income. 

Allowance
      for Loan Losses   

The
      allowance for loan losses is established as losses are estimated to have
      occurred through a provision for loan losses charged to income. Loan losses
      are
      charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectability
      of a
      loan balance is confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the
      allowance. 

The
      allowance for loan losses is evaluated on a regular basis by management and
      is
      based upon management s periodic review of the collectability of the loans in
      light of historical experience, the nature and volume of the loan portfolio,
      adverse situations that may affect the borrower s ability to repay, estimated
      value of any underlying collateral and prevailing economic conditions. This
      evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are
      susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes
      available. 

37 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

A
      loan is
      considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is
      probable that the Company will be unable to collect the scheduled payments
      of
      principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of the loan
      agreement. Factors considered by management in determining impairment include
      payment status, collateral value and the probability of collecting scheduled
      principal and interest payments when due. Loans that experience insignificant
      payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired.
      Management determines the significance of payment delays and payment shortfalls
      on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances
      surrounding the loan and the borrower, including the length of the delay, the
      reasons for the delay, the borrower s prior payment record and the amount of the
      shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed. Impairment is measured
      on a loan-by-loan basis for commercial and construction loans by either the
      present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective
      interest rate, the loan s observable market price or the fair value of the
      collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. 

Large
      groups of smaller balance homogenous loans are collectively evaluated for
      impairment. Accordingly, the Company does not separately identify individual
      consumer and residential loans for impairment measurements. 

Premises
      and Equipment   

Depreciable
      assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is charged
      to expense using the straight-line and accelerated methods over the estimated
      useful lives of the assets ranging from 3 to 39 years. 

Federal
      Home Loan Bank Stock   

Federal
      Home Loan Bank stock is a required investment for institutions that are members
      of the Federal Home Loan Bank system. The required investment in the common
      stock is based on a predetermined formula. 

Foreclosed
      Assets Held for Sale   

Assets
      acquired through, or in lieu of, loan foreclosure are held for sale and are
      initially recorded at fair value at the date of foreclosure, establishing a
      new
      cost basis. Subsequent to foreclosure, valuations are periodically performed
      by
      management and the assets are carried at the lower of carrying amount or fair
      value less cost to sell. Revenue and expenses from operations and changes in
      the
      valuation allowance are included in net income or expense from foreclosed
      assets. 

38 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Servicing
      Rights   

Servicing
      rights on originated loans that have been sold are capitalized by allocating
      the
      total cost of the mortgage loans between the mortgage servicing rights and
      the
      loans based on their relative fair values. Capitalized servicing rights are
      amortized in proportion to and over the period of estimated servicing revenues.
      Impairment of mortgage-servicing rights is assessed based on the fair value
      of
      those rights. Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows based on
      a
      current market interest rate. For purposes of measuring impairment, the rights
      are stratified based on the predominant risk characteristics of the underlying
      loans. The predominant characteristic currently used for stratification is
      type
      of loan. The amount of impairment recognized is the amount by which the
      capitalized mortgage servicing rights for a stratum exceed their fair value
      and
      is recorded through a valuation allowance. 

Stock
      Options   

At
      December 31, 2005, the Company has a stock-based employee compensation
      plan, which is described more fully in Note 13. The Company accounts for this
      plan under the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25,
         Accounting
      for Stock Issued to Employees   ,
      and
      related interpretations. No stock-based employee compensation cost is reflected
      in net income, as all options granted under the plan had an exercise price
      equal
      to the market value of the underlying common stock on the grant date. The
      following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share
      if
      the Company had applied the fair value provisions of Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123,    Accounting
      for Stock-Based Compensation   ,
      to
      stock-based employee compensation. 

39 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Income
      Taxes   

Deferred
      tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the tax effects of differences
      between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities. A
      valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax assets if it is more
      likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Company
      files consolidated income tax returns with its subsidiary. 

Earnings
      Per Share   

Earnings
      per share have been computed based upon the weighted-average common shares
      outstanding during each year. Unearned ESOP shares and RRP shares which have
      not
      vested have been excluded from the computation of average shares outstanding.
      During 2005 and 2004, the Company paid a five percent stock dividend.
      Accordingly, all share and per share data have been restated to reflect the
      stock dividend for all years presented. 

Operating
      Segments   

While
      the
      chief decision-makers monitor the revenue streams of the various products and
      services, the identifiable segments are not material and operations are managed
      and financial performance is evaluated on a Company-wide basis. Accordingly,
      all
      of the financial service operations are considered by management to be
      aggregated in one reportable operating segment. 

Reclassifications   

Certain
      reclassifications have been made to the 2004 and 2003 financial statements
      to
      conform to the 2005 financial statement presentation. These reclassifications
      had no effect on net income. 

Note
      2:       Restriction
      on Cash and Due From Banks  

The
      Bank
      is required to maintain reserve funds in cash and/or on deposit with the Federal
      Reserve Bank. The reserve required at December 31, 2005 was $1,066. 

40 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Note
      3:       Securities  

The
      amortized cost and approximate fair values of securities are as
      follows: 

The
      amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities at
      December 31, 2005, by contractual maturity, are shown below. Expected
      maturities will differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have
      the
      right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment
      penalties. 

41 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Gross
      gains of $0, $11 and $0 resulting from sales of available-for-sale securities
      were realized for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, less tax expense of $4
      in
      2004. 

Certain
      investments in debt securities are reported in the financial statements at
      an
      amount less than their historical cost. Total fair value of these investments
      at
      December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $10,204 and $5,298, which is approximately
      88% and 67% of the Company s available-for-sale investment portfolio. These
      declines primarily resulted from recent increases in market interest
      rates. 

Based
      on
      evaluation of available evidence, including recent changes in market interest
      rates, credit rating information and information obtained from regulatory
      filings, management believes the declines in fair value for these securities
      are
      temporary.  

Should
      the impairment of any of these securities become other than temporary, the
      cost
      basis of the investment will be reduced and the resulting loss recognized in
      net
      income in the period the other-than-temporary impairment is
      identified. 

The
      following table shows our investments  gross unrealized losses and fair value,
      aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities
      have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at December 31,
      2005: 

The
      following table shows our investments  gross unrealized losses and fair value,
      aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities
      have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at December 31,
      2004: 

42 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Note
      4:       Loans
      and Allowance for Loan Losses  

Categories
      of loans at December 31, include: 

Activity
      in the allowance for loan losses was as follows: 

Impaired
      loans totaled $5,864 and $4,691 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
      An
      allowance for loan losses of $368 and $432 relates to impaired loans of $5,864
      and $4,504 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 

Interest
      of $169, $140 and $0 was recognized on average impaired loans of $3,268, $4,454
      and $1,684 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Interest of $25, $99 and
      $0
      was recognized on impaired loans on a cash basis during 2005, 2004 and 2003,
      respectively. 

At
      December 31, 2005 and 2004, accruing loans delinquent 90 days or more
      totaled $127 and $484, respectively. Non-accruing loans at December 31,
      2005 and 2004 were $8,432 and $4,207, respectively. 

43 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Note
      5:       Premises
      and Equipment  

Major
      classifications of premises and equipment, stated at cost, are as
      follows: 

Note
      6:       Loan
      Servicing  

Mortgage
      loans serviced for others are not included in the accompanying consolidated
      balance sheets. The unpaid principal balances of mortgage loans serviced for
      others was $157,551 and $158,343 at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
      respectively. 

The
      aggregate fair value of capitalized mortgage servicing rights at
      December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 approximated the carrying value.
      Comparable market values and a valuation model that calculates the present
      value
      of future cash flows were used to estimate fair value. For purposes of measuring
      impairment, risk characteristics including product type, investor type, and
      interest rates, were used to stratify the originated mortgage servicing
      rights. 

Activity
      in the valuation allowance for mortgage servicing rights was as
      follows: 

44 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Note
      7:       Deposits  

Deposits
      at year-end are summarized as follows:  

At
      December 31, 2005, scheduled maturities of certificates of deposit are as
      follows: 

Time
      deposits of $100 or more, including brokered deposits, were $106,159 and $76,620
      at December 31, 2005 and 2004. 

Deposits
      from related parties held by the Company at December 31, 2005 and 2004
      totaled $1,601 and $2,362, respectively. 

Total
      brokered deposits totaled approximately $67,138 and $50,145 at December 31,
      2005 and 2004, respectively. 

45 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)  

Note
      8:       Federal
      Home Loan Bank Advances  

Federal
      Home Loan Bank advances totaled $72,033 and $66,808 at December 31, 2005
      and 2004. At December 31, 2005, the advances range in interest rates from
      1.99% to 6.73% and are secured by mortgage loans totaling $104,448. 

Aggregate
      annual maturities of the advance at December 31, 2005, are: 

Advances
      totaling $19,500 may, at certain dates, be converted to adjustable rate advances
      by the FHLB. If converted, the advances may be prepaid without
      penalty. 

Note
      9:       Income
      Taxes  

The
      provision for income taxes includes these components: 

A
      reconciliation of income tax expense at the statutory rate to the Company s
      actual income tax expense is shown below: 

46 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

The
      tax
      effects of temporary differences related to deferred taxes shown on the balance
      sheets were: 

Retained
      earnings at December 31, 2005 and 2004, include approximately $1,861, for which
      no deferred federal income tax liability has been recognized. This amount
      represents an allocation of income to bad debt deductions for tax purposes
      only.
      Reduction of amounts so allocated for purposes other than tax bad debt losses
      or
      adjustments arising from carryback of net operating losses would create income
      for tax purposes only, which would be subject to the then-current corporate
      income tax rate. The deferred income tax liabilities on the preceding amounts
      that would have been recorded if they were expected to reverse into taxable
      income in the foreseeable future were approximately $737 at December 31, 2005
      and 2004. 

Note
      10:       Other
      Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

Other
      comprehensive loss components and related taxes were as follows: 

47 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)  

Note
      11:       Regulatory
      Matters  

The
      Bank
      is subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the
      federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can
      initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by
      regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the
      Bank s financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the
      regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Bank must meet specific
      capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the Bank s assets,
      liabilities, and certain off-balance-sheet items as calculated under regulatory
      accounting practices. The Bank s capital amounts and classification are also
      subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk
      weightings and other factors. 

Quantitative
      measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Bank
      to maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in the table below).
      Management believes, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, that the Bank meets
      all
      capital adequacy requirements to which it is subject. 

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, the most recent notification from the Office of Thrift
      Supervision categorized the Bank as well capitalized under the regulatory
      framework for prompt corrective action. To be categorized as well capitalized,
      the Bank must maintain minimum total risk-based, Tier I risk-based and Tier
      I
      leverage ratios as set forth in the table. There are no conditions or events
      since that notification that management believes have changed the Bank s
      category. 

The
      Bank s actual capital amounts and ratios are also presented in the
      table. 

48 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

The
      Bank
      is subject to certain restrictions on the amount of dividends that it may
      declare without prior regulatory approval. At December 31, 2005, approximately
      $2,561 of retained earnings were available for dividend declaration without
      prior regulatory approval. 

LSB
      converted from a mutual to a stock institution, and a  liquidation account  was
      established at $8,066, which was net worth reported in the conversion
      prospectus. Eligible depositors who have maintained their accounts, less annual
      reduction to the extent they have reduced their deposits, would receive a
      distribution from this account if the Bank liquidated. Dividends may not reduce
      shareholders  equity below the required liquidation account
      balance. 

Note
      12:       Employee
      Benefits   

The
      Bank
      maintains an ESOP which purchased 8% of the stock offered in the conversion
      using funds provided by an $824 loan from LSB which will be repaid by
      contributions to the ESOP by the Bank in the future. Pursuant to the ESOP,
      the
      shares are to be allocated to participants annually, over a 12-year period,
      based upon employee compensation levels during the year. The number of shares
      earned each year is determined by the ESOP loan agreement. Shares no longer
      required to be held as collateral for that loan are committed to be released
      and
      are earned by participants. Dividends paid on allocated shares are charged
      to
      retained earnings and dividends on unallocated shares are used to reduce the
      debt.  

ESOP
      expense for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $247, $239
      and $231, respectively. 

The
      LSB
      Recognition and Retention Plan (RRP) has awarded stock to certain officers
      and
      directors of the Company. Stock awarded under the RRP is restricted as to
      certain rights at the time of issuance. These restrictions are removed over
      a
      5-year period. If an employee leaves LSB prior to vesting, the remaining
      restricted shares are returned to the Company. During 2005 and 2004, no shares
      were forfeited by RRP participants. The cost of awarded shares is
      amortized     over
      the
      vesting period. Expense recorded for the RRP totaled $29, $29 and $29 for 2005,
      2004 and 2003. 

49 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Note
      13:       Stock
      Option Plan  

The
      Company has a fixed option plan under which the Company may grant options that
      vest over five years to selected employees for up to 187,717 shares of common
      stock. The exercise price of each option is intended to equal the fair value
      of
      the Company's stock on the date of grant. At December 31, 2005, there were
      no
      options available for grant as the plan expired on August 22, 2005. 

A
      summary
      of the status of the plan at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and changes
      during the years then ended is presented below: 

The
      fair
      value of options granted is estimated on the date of the grant using an
      option-pricing mode with the following weighted-average
      assumptions: 

50 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

The
      following table summarizes information about stock options under the plan
      outstanding at December 31, 2005: 

Note
      14:       Earnings
      Per Share  

Earnings
      per share (EPS) were computed as follows: 

There
      were no options outstanding at December 31, 2005 that were considered
      anti-dilutive. 

51 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

There
      were no options outstanding at December 31, 2004 that were considered
      anti-dilutive. 

There
      were no options outstanding at December 31, 2003 that were considered
      anti-dilutive. 

52 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Note
      15:       Disclosures
      About Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

The
      following table presents estimated fair values of the Company s financial
      instruments. The fair values of certain of these instruments were calculated
      by
      discounting expected cash flows, which involves significant judgments by
      management and uncertainties. Fair value is the estimated amount at which
      financial assets or liabilities could be exchanged in a current transaction
      between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Because
      no
      market exists for certain of these financial instruments and because management
      does not intend to sell these financial instruments, the Company does not know
      whether the fair values shown below represent values at which the respective
      financial instruments could be sold individually or in the
      aggregate. 

The
      following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each
      class of financial instruments. 

Cash
      and Cash Equivalents, Interest-Bearing Deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank
      Stock   

The
      carrying amount approximates fair value. 

Securities   

Fair
      values equal quoted market prices, if available. If quoted market prices are
      not
      available, fair value is estimated based on quoted market prices of similar
      securities. 

53 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Loans   

The
      fair
      value of loans is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using the
      current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar
      credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities. Loans with similar
      characteristics were aggregated for purposes of the calculations. 

Deposits   

Deposits
      include demand deposits, savings accounts, NOW accounts and certain money market
      deposits. The carrying amount approximates fair value. The fair value of
      fixed-maturity time deposits is estimated using a discounted cash flow
      calculation that applies the rates currently offered for deposits of similar
      remaining maturities. 

Interest
      Receivable and Interest Payable   

The
      carrying amount approximates fair value. 

Federal
      Home Loan Bank Advances   

Rates
      currently available to the Company for debt with similar terms and remaining
      maturities are used to estimate the fair value of existing debt. 

Commitments
      to Originate Loans, Letters of Credit and Lines of
      Credit   

Loan
      commitments and letters-of-credit generally have short-term, variable rate
      features and contain clauses which limit the Bank s exposure to changes in
      customer credit quality. Accordingly, their carrying values, which are
      immaterial at the respective balance sheet dates, are reasonable estimates
      of
      fair value. 

Note
      16:       Commitments
      and Contingent Liabilities  

Some
      financial instruments, such as loan commitments, credit lines, letters of
      credit, and overdraft protection, are issued to meet customer financing needs.
      These are agreements to provide credit or to support the credit of others,
      as
      long as conditions established in the contract are met, and usually have
      expiration dates. Commitments may expire without being used. Off-balance-sheet
      risk to credit loss exists up to the face amount of these instruments, although
      material losses are not anticipated. The same credit policies are used to make
      such commitments as are used for loans, including obtaining collateral at
      exercise of the commitment.  

54 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

At
      year-end, these financial instruments are summarized as follows:  

The
      commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long as
      there is no violation of any condition established under the contract.
      Generally, such commitments are for no more than 60 days. At December 31, 2005,
      the fixed rate loan commitments were at rates ranging from 5.50% to 8.25%.
      Unused portions of lines of credit include balances available on commercial
      and
      home equity loans and are variable rate.  

Note
      17:       Condensed
      Financial Information (Parent Company Only)  

Presented
      below is condensed financial information as to financial position, results
      of
      operations and cash flows of the Company: 

55 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)  

56 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Note
      18:       Recent
      Accounting Pronouncements  

Future
      Accounting Matters    

Share-Based
      Compensation   

In
      December 2004, FASB issued an amendment to SFAS 123 (SFAS 123R), which
      eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions
      using Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,    Accounting
      for Stock Issued to Employees   ,
      and
      generally requires that such transactions be accounted for using a fair
      value-based method. On April 14, 2005, the SEC amended the compliance date
      for
      SFAS 123R from the beginning of the first interim or annual period that begins
      after June 15, 2005 to the next fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005.
      The
      Company adopted SFAS 123R as of January 1, 2006. The effect on the Company s
      results of operations depends on the level of future option grants and the
      calculation of the fair value of the options granted at such future date, as
      well as the vesting periods provided and possible performance condition
      requirements, and so cannot currently be predicted for future awards.

SFAS
      123R
      applies to all awards granted after the effective date and to awards modified,
      repurchased, or cancelled after that date. The statement establishes standards
      for accounting for share-based payment transactions. Share-based payment
      transactions are those in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments
      for
      goods or services or in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for
      goods
      or services that are based on the fair value of the entity s equity instruments
      or that may be settled by the issuance of these equity instruments. SFAS 123R
      covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including stock
      options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation
      rights and employee stock purchase plans.  

As
      of
      January 1, 2006, the Company applied SFAS 123R using the modified prospective
      method. This method requires that compensation expense be recorded for all
      unvested stock options and restricted stock awards over the requisite service
      period (generally the vesting schedule). For liability-classified awards, the
      Company measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for an
      award
      based on its current fair value. The fair value is re-measured subsequently
      at
      each reporting date through the settlement date, and changes in fair value
      are
      recognized as compensation cost. For equity-classified awards, the grant date
      fair value is recognized in earnings over the requisite service period.

Earnings
      Per Share    

The
      FASB
      has issued a proposed amendment to SFAS No. 128,    Earnings
      Per Share   ,
      to
      clarify guidance for mandatorily convertible instruments, the treasury stock
      method, contingently issuable shares, and contracts that may be settled in
      cash
      or shares. The primary impact on the Company of the proposed Statement is the
      change to the treasury stock method for year-to-date diluted earnings per share.

57 

LSB
      Financial Corp.  

       Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements  

       December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

      (Dollars
      in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) 

Currently,
      SFAS No. 128 requires that the number of incremental shares included in the
      denominator be determined by computing a year-to-date weighted average of the
      number of incremental shares included in each quarterly diluted EPS computation.
      Under this proposed Statement, the number of incremental shares included in
      year-to-date diluted earnings per share would be computed using the average
      market price of common shares for the year-to-date period, independent of the
      quarterly computations. This computational change is not expected to have a
      significant impact on the Company s diluted earnings per share. 

Note
      19:       Quarterly
      Results of Operations (Unaudited)  

58 

LSB         F    INANCIAL         C    ORP.  

and  

L    afayette         S    avings         B    ank,    
      FSB  

D    irectors
      and          E    xecutive         O    fficers  

Directors   

Randolph
                  F. Williams  

                   President
                  and Chief Executive Officer, LSB Financial and Lafayette
                  Savings  

Mariellen
                  M. Neudeck 

                   Chairman
                  of the Board, LSB Financial and Lafayette Savings  

                   Vice
                  President, Greater Lafayette Health Services, Inc.,
                  retired  

James
                  A. Andrew 

                   President
                  and Owner, Henry Poor Lumber Co. and Homeworks  

Kenneth
                  P. Burns 

                   Executive
                  Vice President and Treasurer, Purdue University, retired  

Mary
                  Jo David 

                   Vice
                  President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary-Treasurer of LSB
                  Financial and Lafayette Savings  

Harry
                  A. Dunwoody 

                   Senior
                  Vice President of LSB Financial and Lafayette Savings  

Philip
                  W. Kemmer 

                   Transportation
                  Supervisor, Lafayette School Corp., retired  

Thomas
                  R. McCully 

                   Partner,
                  Stuart   Branigin  

Peter
                  Neisel 

                   Owner,
                  President and CEO, Schwab Corp., retired  

Jeffrey
                  A. Poxon 

                   Senior       Vice
                  President, Investments and Chief Investment Officer, The Lafayette
                  Life
                  Insurance Company  

Executive
      Officers   

Randolph
                    F. Williams 

                     President
                    and Chief Executive Officer  

Harry
                    A. Dunwoody 

                     Senior
                    Vice President  

Mary
                    Jo David 

                     Vice
                    President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary-Treasurer

59 

DIRECTORS
      AND OFFICERS  

James
        A. Andrew.   Mr. Andrew is President and owner of Henry
        Poor Lumber Co. and Homeworks, retailers of building materials.  He is also
        involved in residential and commercial land development. 

Kenneth
        P. Burns.   Mr. Burns served as Executive Vice
        President and the Treasurer of Purdue University prior to his retirement
        on
        August 31, 2005. 

Philip
        W. Kemmer.   Mr. Kemmer is currently employed by
        Greater Lafayette Public Transportation Corporation.  Formerly he served as
        Transportation Supervisor for the Lafayette School Corp. until his retirement
        from that position in July 2003.  Prior to joining the Lafayette School
        Corp. Mr. Kemmer was the business administrator for the Assembly of God Church
        from July 1995 through December 1999. 

Randolph  
        F. Williams.   Mr. Williams is President and
        Chief Executive Officer of LSB Financial and its wholly-owned subsidiary,
        Lafayette Savings.  Mr. Williams was appointed to the Board of Directors of
        LSB Financial in September 2001.  He was appointed President of LSB
        Financial in September 2001 and Chief Executive Officer in January 2002. 
Mr. Williams served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Delaware
        Place
        Bank in Chicago, Illinois from 1996 until joining LSB Financial.  Mr.
        Williams has over 25 years of banking-related experience. 

Mary
        Jo David.   Ms. David is Vice President, Chief Financial
        Officer and Secretary of LSB Financial and Lafayette Savings.  She has held
        these positions with the Company since its formation in 1994 and with Lafayette
        Savings since 1992 and was elected a Director of LSB Financial and Lafayette
        Savings in 1999. 

Harry
        A. Dunwoody.   Mr. Dunwoody has served as Senior Vice
        President of Lafayette Savings since 1989 and was elected as a Director of
        the
        Bank in 1993.  He has held the same positions with the Company since its
        formation in 1994.  He is responsible for residential and consumer lending
        originations for the bank. 

Thomas
        R. McCully .  Mr. McCully is a partner in the law firm
        of Stuart   Branigin LLP and has worked there since 1966. 

Mariellen
        M. Neudeck.   Ms. Neudeck, retired as of June 30,
        2001, was a Vice President of Greater Lafayette Health Services, Inc. where
        she
        was responsible for 18 professional services departments operating in two
        hospitals.  She was elected as Chairman of the Board of Lafayette Savings
        in 1993 and of LSB Financial in 1994. 

Peter
        Neisel.   Mr. Neisel, retired as of December 31, 2002,
        was the Owner, President and Chief Executive Officer of Schwab Corp., a
        manufacturer and seller of office equipment. 

Jeffrey
        A. Poxon.   Mr. Poxon is the Senior Vice
        President-Investments and Chief Investment Officer of The Lafayette Life
        Insurance Company. 

60 

SHAREHOLDER
      INFORMATION  

Form
      10-K Report      

A
        copy of
        LSB Financial s Annual Report on Form 10-K without exhibits for the fiscal year
        ended December 31, 2005, as filed with the SEC, will be furnished without
        charge
        to shareholders of LSB Financial upon written request to the Secretary, LSB
        Financial Corp., 101 Main Street, P.O. Box 1628, Lafayette, Indiana 47902,
        or by
        calling (765) 742-1064. Copies of the exhibits filed with the Form 10-K may
        be
        obtained by shareholders at a charge of $0.25 per page. 

61 

Common
      Stock  

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, there were approximately 979 holders of record of LSB
      Financial Common Stock and 1,547,806 shares of issued and outstanding common
      stock. LSB Financial's stock is quoted on the Nasdaq National Stock Market
      under
      the symbol  LSBI.  

The
      following
      table sets forth, for the periods shown, the high and low sale price of the
      common stock and cash dividends per share declared. All amounts have been
      adjusted to reflect stock dividends and stock splits declared by the Company
      to
      date. The last stock dividend was declared in 2005.  

(1) 

High
                and low sales prices of LSB Financial Common Stock have been adjusted
                to
                reflect a 5% stock dividend payable to shareholders of record on
                October
                7, 2005. 

Dividend
      payment decisions are made with consideration of a variety of factors including
      earnings, financial condition, market considerations and regulatory
      restrictions. Restrictions on dividend payments are described in Note 11 of
      the
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual
      Report. 

62 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 5
 lsb_10k21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES

Subsidiaries

EXHIBIT
      21  

SUBSIDIARIES
      OF THE REGISTRANT  

Parent 

Subsidiary 

Jurisdiction
                of Incorporation 

LSB
                Financial Corp. 

Lafayette
                Savings Bank, FSB 

Federal 

Lafayette
                Savings Bank, FSB 

L.S.B.
                Service Corporation 

Indiana 

Lafayette
                Savings Bank, FSB 

Lafayette
                Insurance and   Investments,
                Inc. 

Indiana 

The
      financial statements of LSB Financial Corp. are consolidated with those of
      its
      subsidiaries. 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 lsb_10k231.htm
 CONSENT OF CROWE CHIZEK

Consent of Crowe Chizek

EXHIBIT
      23.1  

Consent
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

We
      consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on
      Form
      S-8 (Reg. Nos. 33-98518 and 33-98516) of LSB Financial Corp. of our Report
      of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, dated January 23, 2004, on the
      consolidated statement of income, changes in shareholders  equity and cash flows
      of LSB Financial Corp. for the year ended December 31, 2003, which report is
      included in Form 10-K of LSB Financial Corp. for the year ended December 31,
      2005. 

Crowe
      Chizek and Company LLC 

Indianapolis,
      Indiana 

      March
      29,
      2006 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 7
 lsb10k232.htm
 CONSENT OF BKD

Consent of BKD

EXHIBIT
      23.2  

Consent
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

We
      consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on
      Form
      S-8 File Nos. 33-98518 and 33-98516 of LSB Financial Corp. of our Report of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, dated February 24, 2006 on the
      consolidated balance sheets of LSB Financial Corp. as of December 31, 2005
      and
      2004 and on the consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders 
equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, which
      report is included in Form 10-K of LSB Financial Corp. for the year ended
      December 31, 2005.  

Indianapolis,
      Indiana  

      March
      29,
      2006  

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 lsb_10k311.htm
 CEO CERTIFICATION

CEO Certification

Exhibit 31.1  

CERTIFICATION  

      I,
      Randolph F. Williams, certify that: 

1. 

I
                have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of LSB Financial Corp.
                (the
                 Registrant  

2. 

Based
                on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
                of a
                material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
                the
                statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
                were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
                report; 

3. 

Based
                on my knowledge, the consolidated financial statements, and other
                financial information included in this report, fairly present in
                all
                material respects the consolidated financial condition, results of
                operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods
                presented in this report; 

4. 

The
                Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
                establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
                defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the Registrant
                and have: 

(a)     Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)
           Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this
      report based on such evaluation; and  

(c)     Disclosed
      in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that
      have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

5. 

The
                Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
                most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
                to
                the Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the Registrant s
                board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
                functions): 

(a)     All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and 

(b)     Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting. 

Dated:
      March 30, 2006  

/s/
 Randolph
              F. Williams  

Randolph
                F. Williams 

                President
                and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 lsb_10k312.htm
 CFO CERTIFICATION

CFO Certification

Exhibit
      31.2  

CERTIFICATION  

I,
      Mary
      Jo David, certify that: 

1. 

I
                have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of LSB Financial Corp.
                (the
                 Registrant  

2. 

Based
                on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
                of a
                material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
                the
                statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
                were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
                report; 

3. 

Based
                on my knowledge, the consolidated financial statements, and other
                financial information included in this report, fairly present in
                all
                material respects the consolidated financial condition, results of
                operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods
                presented in this report; 

4. 

The
                Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
                establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
                defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the Registrant
                and have: 

(a)     Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)
           Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this
      report based on such evaluation; and  

(c)     Disclosed
      in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that
      have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

5. 

The
                Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
                most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
                to
                the Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the Registrant s
                board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
                functions): 

(a)     All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and 

(b)     Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting. 

Dated:
      March 30, 2006 

/s/
 Mary
              Jo David  

Mary
                Jo David 

                Vice
                President and Chief Financial
                Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 10
 lsb_10k32.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

906 Certification

Exhibit
        32  

CERTIFICATION  

By
        signing below, each of the undersigned hereby certifies pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
 
1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
        in
        his or her capacity as an officer of LSB Financial Corp. (the  Registrant ) that
        (i) this report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
        15(d)
        of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the information contained
        in
        this report fairly presents, in all material respects, the consolidated
        financial condition of the Registrant at the end of such period and results
        of
        operations of the Registrant for such period. 

Signed
        this 30th day of March, 2006. 

/s/
 Randolph
                F. Williams  
                 
               /s/
 Mary
                Jo David  

Randolph
                  F. Williams 

                  President
                  and Chief Executive Officer 

Mary
                  Jo David 

                  Vice
                  President and Chief Financial
                  Officer 

A
        signed
        original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
        authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
        in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required
        by Section 906, has been provided to LSB Financial Corp. and will be retained
        by
        LSB Financial Corp. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
        or
        its staff upon request. 

</EX-32>

