<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_1062216_0000950123-06-004010_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1086448</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>540026</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>334411</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>50</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-06-004010.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331153047
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-06-004010
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001062216
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				000000000

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-50642
		FILM NUMBER:		06728557

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 PHILIPS PARKWAY
		CITY:			MONTVALE
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07645
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2018027100

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WbMfolswH77opioVjD96y3rTwwCffExXKh4WhmUEMnpb13MVZOZU8l2UDxmtIKtU
 +2uEZRxDKZL+KFSxFL+Elg==

 0000950123-06-004010.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 y19213e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

10-K 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 

Or 

For the transition period from                      to 

Commission File Number 000-50642 

MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

100 Philips Parkway 
Montvale, New Jersey 07645 
(201) 802-7100  
(Address, including zip code, and telephone number, 
including area code, of registrant s principal executive offices)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  
None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  
Common Stock $0.001 par value

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.     Yes     No

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Securities Act.  
    Yes     No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 
    Yes     No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. 
Large Accelerated Filer     Accelerated Filer    
Non-Accelerated Filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act)     Yes     No

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June
30, 2005 was approximately $32,567,901 (based on the last reported sale price on the NASDAQ
National Market on that date).

As of March 15, 2006 the registrant had 37,758,140 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per
share, outstanding. The registrant does not have any non-voting stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
None.

MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP. 
2005 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

PART
I  

1 

Item 1.  Business 

1 

Item 1A.  Risk Factors 

23 

Item 2.  Properties 

34 

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings 

34 

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

34 

PART II  

35 

Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

35 

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data 

36 

Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

37 

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

46 

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

46 

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

67 

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures 

67 

Item 9B.  Other Information 

67 

PART III  

68 

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

68 

Item 11.  Executive Compensation 

71 

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

77 

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

80 

Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

81 

PART IV  

82 

Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

82 

This Annual Report on   Form 10-K  , including the sections labeled Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements that
you should read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes to financial statements that
we have included elsewhere in this report. These statements are based on our current expectations,
assumptions, estimates and projections about our business and our industry, and involve known and
unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industry s results,
levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results,
levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied in, or contemplated by, the
forward-looking statements. We generally identify these statements by words or phrases such as
 believe,   anticipate,   expect,   intend,   plan,   will,   may,   should,   estimate, 
 predict,   potential,   continue,  or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Our
actual results and the timing of events may differ significantly from the results discussed in the
forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on these statements. Factors
that might cause such a difference include those discussed below under the heading  Risk Factors, 
as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on   Form 10-K  . We disclaim any intent or
obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the
period covered by this report or otherwise. 

PART I 

Item 1. Business .

OVERVIEW 

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of innovative drug
candidates for the treatment of a broad range of central nervous system (CNS) conditions, many of
which exhibit significant impairment of memory and other cognitive functions. These conditions
include neurological diseases associated with aging, such as Alzheimer s disease, and also include
certain psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression. Although
therapies for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression
have been available for a number of years, many of the approved drugs for these disorders are not
effective in a large number of patients and can produce significant side effects.

Our potential CNS therapies are primarily designed to address biological targets within important
cellular pathways thought to underlie CNS disorders. As a consequence, we believe that our
approach could lead to the development of treatments for a number of major neurological and
psychiatric disorders and that the relative specificity with which we target these neuronal
signalling pathways provides an opportunity to develop drugs with reduced side effect profiles.

Through pioneering research conducted over more than 30 years, Nobel Laureate Dr. Eric Kandel, one
of our scientific founders, identified critical cellular pathways and biological targets involved
in memory formation. This research, which was published in the 1990s, served as the cornerstone of
our scientific foundation.

In order to identify and optimize promising drug candidates quickly and efficiently we combine:

our extensive knowledge of the pathways we believe are involved in memory formation
and other cognitive functions; 

our understanding of neurological and psychiatric disorders; 

an interdisciplinary drug discovery and development approach; and 

our focus on conducting  in vivo  and safety screening at early stages of the drug discovery process. 

We currently have drug candidates in clinical development for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease,
schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder. We also have drug candidates in preclinical development for
Alzheimer s disease and depression. Our early drug discovery pipeline includes compounds that we
are optimizing for the treatment of these and other CNS disorders.

We seek to leverage our pipeline of early development candidates through collaborations with
leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. To date, we have entered into two separate
collaborations with F. Hoffman   La Roche Ltd. / Hoffman   La Roche, Inc., or Roche, one for the
development of our PDE4 inhibitors, and the other for the development of our nicotinic alpha-7
agonists. We have also entered into a collaboration with Amgen Inc., or Amgen, for the development
of PDE10 inhibitors. In addition to our collaborations, we have entered into a development
agreement with The Stanley Medical Research Institute, or SMRI, for the development of MEM 1003 as
a treatment for bipolar disorder. As of December 31, 2005, we had received $59.1 million in

upfront license fees, research and development funding, milestone payments and equity investments
under our collaborations with Roche and Amgen and our development agreement with SMRI.

MARKET OVERVIEW 

According to the World Health Organization (WHO), over 180 million people worldwide suffer from CNS
disorders that exhibit significant impairment of memory and other cognitive functions. These
disorders include neurological diseases associated with aging, such as Alzheimer s disease and
certain psychiatric diseases including schizophrenia and depression. The cognitive deficits
associated with these disorders result in symptoms ranging from mild impairment of short-term and
long-term memory to the inability to engage in cogent conversation and perform routine tasks. We
expect the market for drugs treating these diseases to grow significantly over the next several
decades as the baby boomer generation ages, life expectancies increase and improved drugs and
diagnostic techniques are developed to address these diseases.

Alzheimer s disease is a degenerative neurological disorder that progressively impairs a person s
cognitive function and gradually destroys the brain. It is the number one cause of dementia, and
there is no known cure for Alzheimer s disease. The period of time from onset until patient death
averages eight years and can be as long as 20 years. The Alzheimer s Association reports that
approximately 4.5 million people in the US suffer from Alzheimer s disease, which represents
approximately 10% of the US population over the age of 65 and nearly half of those over the age of
85. According to the Alzheimer s Association, by 2050, the number of Americans with Alzheimer s
disease could range from approximately 11 to 16 million. National direct and indirect costs of
caring for individuals with Alzheimer s disease are at least $100 billion a year, according to
estimates used by the Alzheimer s Association and the National Institute on Aging.

Schizophrenia is a chronic psychiatric disorder characterized by difficulties differentiating
between real and imaginary experiences, thinking logically and managing emotional responses to
everyday social situations. According to IMS Health Incorporated, 2004 antipsychotics sales were
$14.1 billion worldwide. There are currently no drugs approved for the treatment of the cognitive
dysfunction associated with schizophrenia.

Bipolar disorder is a psychiatric condition that causes unusual shifts in a person s mood, energy,
and ability to function. According to the National Institute for Mental Health, or the NIMH, in
any given year bipolar disorder affects approximately 5.7 million American adults, or about 2.6% of
the US population age 18 and older. Bipolar disorder is a long-term illness that must be carefully
managed throughout a person s life. There are a number of drugs approved for the treatment of
various phases of bipolar disorder (mania, maintenance, depression), but there is still a
significant unmet need for agents with novel mechanisms of action and improved safety and
tolerability profiles.

Depression is a psychiatric condition characterized by excessive sadness, lack of energy and loss
of interest in day-to-day activities. In addition, cognitive deficits, such as difficulty
concentrating, remembering and making decisions, are common complaints of those suffering from the
disease and are now recognized as elements of depression. Depression can last for many years and
can require long periods of treatment. According to IMS Health, 2004 antidepressant sales were
$20.3 billion worldwide. There are currently no drugs approved for the treatment of the cognitive
dysfunction associated with depression.

SCIENTIFIC BACKGROUND 

Central nervous system and memory 

The CNS is comprised of a network of nerve cells, known as neurons, that enable sensation, memory,
emotion and other cognitive functions. Neurons are highly specialized cells that are capable of
communicating with each other through biochemical transmission across junctions called synapses.
For this transmission to occur, neurons secrete chemicals, known as neurotransmitters, that bind to
receptors on a neighboring neuron. Serotonin, dopamine and acetylcholine (ACh) are examples of
neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitter signaling can lead to the activation of a specific class of
molecules known as second messengers, which can both relay electrical signals and amplify their
strength. Cyclic adenosine monophosphate, or cAMP, cyclic guanosine monophosphate, or cGMP, and
calcium are examples of second messengers. Second messengers are known to play a key role in many
intracellular processes of direct relevance to the formation and stabilization of memories.

Coordinated communication across synapses is essential for the formation of both short-term
memories, which last for minutes or hours, and long-term memories, which last for days and years.
The formation of short-term memories appears to result from the transient release of
neurotransmitters across existing synaptic connections. The formation of long-term memories,
however, not only

2

requires synaptic neurotransmission, but also a subsequent cascade of cellular events that
culminates in protein synthesis, activation of existing synaptic connections and the formation of
new synaptic connections.

Through pioneering research conducted over more than 30 years, Nobel Laureate Dr. Eric Kandel, one
of our founders, identified critical cellular pathways involved in the formation of both short-term
and long-term memories. In addition, Dr. Kandel identified specific targets that are believed to be
critical to the process of long-term memory formation and certain classes of compounds that can
have restorative effects on the impairment of long-term memory. These findings were published in
the 1990s and served as the cornerstone of our scientific foundation.

Memory and cognitive disorders 

It is well recognized that memory loss and other cognitive impairments are key characteristics of
Alzheimer s disease and other dementias. It is less widely recognized, however, that memory loss
and other cognitive impairments frequently occur in psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia,
and depression. For example, many people who have Alzheimer s disease tend to suffer from
depression and, conversely, depressed patients tend to experience significant cognitive decline.
Symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, remembering and making decisions are recognized as
elements of depression and Alzheimer s disease. Likewise, common manifestations of schizophrenia
and Alzheimer s disease include the inability to correctly process new information, retrieve
information and react appropriately to environmental stimuli. The hallucinations and delusions of
schizophrenic people can be traced to misprocessed information or the inability to filter out and
decipher common background noises. In recognition of the possible involvement of cognitive
dysfunction in schizophrenia, the NIMH has established an initiative to address the impairments in
cognition that appear to be present in many schizophrenic patients.

UNMET THERAPEUTIC NEEDS 

Therapies for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression
have been available for a number of years. However, many of the approved drugs for these diseases
are not effective in a large number of patients, can produce significant side effects and, in the
case of Alzheimer s disease, lose their effectiveness over time. For example, only about 50% of
people taking acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, the most commonly prescribed drug class for
Alzheimer s disease, show even modest improvements in the major symptoms of the disease. Moreover,
the benefits derived from taking these drugs typically last for only six to nine months. Of
patients taking selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs, the largest category of
antidepressants, 30% to 45% have no clinical response. In addition, current therapies for the
treatment of schizophrenia, and depression do not address the cognitive impairments associated with
these disorders. In addition to efficacy limitations, the majority of patients taking currently
approved drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and
depression experience one or more side effects. These can include, depending on the drug,
headaches, nausea, nervousness, insomnia, agitation, weight gain and sexual dysfunction. Side
effects occur because the biological mechanisms targeted by these drugs are not only involved in
the neuronal pathways implicated in the disease but are also involved in multiple other bodily
functions. These side effects can be so severe at higher dosage levels that in order to make the
drug tolerable, the actual doses administered must be moderated. This, in turn, reduces the
effectiveness of the treatment.

We believe that therapies designed to address biological targets within the cellular pathways
critically involved in memory formation and other cognitive functions could be effective in
treating many major neurological and psychiatric disorders. We also believe that due to the
relative specificity of these targets, there are opportunities to reduce side effects.

THE MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS DRUG DEVELOPMENT APPROACH 

We are focused on the discovery and development of CNS drugs that impact biological targets
believed to play a critical role in memory formation and cognition and which may also be implicated
in other CNS conditions, such as bipolar disorder. Based on our understanding of neuronal pathways,
we are targeting specific subcategories of neurotransmitter receptors, specific enzymes that
regulate second messengers and protein channels that modulate the flow of second messengers such as
calcium. We screen, optimize and develop highly selective compounds for these targets. Through this
approach, we believe we can address many of the debilitating symptoms of several neurological and
psychiatric disorders and potentially slow or halt the progression of some of these diseases.
Compared with current alternatives for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease, schizophrenia, bipolar
disorder and depression, we believe that drug candidates we develop may provide enhanced efficacy
and may have an improved side effect profile.

Our interdisciplinary drug discovery and development approach enables us to generate drug
development programs focused on multiple targets and clinical indications. Through this approach,
we believe that we are able to identify and optimize promising drug candidates quickly and
efficiently. To accomplish this:

3

We use our extensive knowledge of the neuronal pathways involved in memory formation
to identify highly relevant targets in the cascade of events leading to long-term memory
formation. 

We have created a dynamic, interdisciplinary environment in which experts in
neuroscience, molecular biology, medicinal chemistry and preclinical drug development
work closely together to screen, identify and optimize drug candidates. 

We conduct iterative tests on our compounds to determine their pharmacokinetics,
including their ability to be absorbed, distributed and metabolized in the body and
their toxicity levels. In addition, we measure their biochemical and physiological
effects in the body and their mechanisms of action, such as their ability to penetrate
the blood-brain barrier. 

Beginning at the earliest stages of drug discovery and continuing throughout the drug
development process, we screen our compounds to eliminate those that are not specific to
an identified target and therefore either exhibit increased side effects or cannot be
optimized for a particular disease. In this process we use many neurobehavioral animal
models and other sophisticated screening tools. 

We complement our scientific disciplines with leadership by individuals who have
extensive expertise and experience in drug discovery and development, related
technologies and collaboration management. 

We design our drug discovery process with the goal of significantly enhancing our ability to
develop high quality drug candidates on an accelerated basis and to reduce our risk of failure in
the clinical trial process. We believe that this approach helped us to secure our collaborations
with Roche and Amgen, each of which was entered into following preclinical tests of our compounds,
and our development agreement with SMRI. As of December 31, 2005, we had received $59.1 million in
upfront license fees, research and development funding, milestone payments and equity investments
under our collaborations with Roche and Amgen and our development agreement with SMRI.

THE MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS STRATEGY 

Our goal is to be a leading biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of
drug candidates for the treatment of CNS disorders, many of which exhibit significant impairment of
memory and other cognitive functions. In order to achieve this goal, we:

Aggressively pursue the discovery and development of drug candidates in large disease
markets in which there are significant unmet medical needs . We are initially focused on
the discovery and development of drug candidates for major CNS disorders for which the
market opportunities are extensive and current therapies generally provide limited
effectiveness and undesirable side effects. These diseases include Alzheimer s disease,
schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression. We intend to apply our expertise in the
future to encompass a wider spectrum of neurological and psychiatric disorders by
expanding the application of existing compounds and optimizing new compounds for these
and other disorders such as vascular dementia, mild cognitive impairment (MCI),
Parkinson s disease, age associated cognitive decline, memory impairment from coronary
artery bypass grafting, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, chemotherapy-induced
cognitive impairment, obsessive compulsive disorder and alcohol-induced cognitive
impairment. 

Leverage our extensive understanding of neuronal pathways and our interdisciplinary,
accelerated drug development approach to yield multiple promising drug candidates.  We
use our knowledge of the critical pathways involved in memory formation to identify
multiple targets that we believe are highly relevant to many different CNS disorders. We
optimize compounds to act on targets that affect neuronal signaling pathways which are
involved in multiple CNS disorders. We also seek to optimize compounds against multiple
targets implicated in the same disorder. For example, for the treatment of Alzheimer s
disease, we have multiple drug candidates in preclinical and clinical development that
act on different targets, including regulating cAMP, regulating neuronal calcium and
acting as a partial agonist of the nicotinic alpha-7 receptor. In addition, one of
these drug candidates regulating calcium is also being evaluated as a candidate for the
treatment of bipolar disorder. Compounds in our PDE10 inhibitor program target the
regulation of cAMP and cGMP and may be useful in the treatment of various neurological
and psychiatric disorders. 

Establish collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to
advance our drug candidates through clinical development and commercialization . We seek
to leverage our pipeline of early-stage development candidates through collaborations
with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We believe that our focus on
drug candidates with large market opportunities helps us secure these types of
collaborations. We also believe that our 

4

rigorous approach to preclinical testing enables us to partner our programs relatively
early in the development process and on terms more in line with those achieved at later
stages of clinical development. We have collaborations with Roche for our PDE4
inhibitors and nicotinic alpha-7 agonists and with Amgen for our PDE10 inhibitors. We
are exploring the potential for additional collaborations for the development of MEM 1003
and MEM 1414 and/or MEM 1917. 

Seek to selectively in-license or acquire additional compounds . We seek to
selectively augment our internal drug discovery program through the selective
in-licensing or acquisition of preclinical and clinical development stage compounds that
we believe are relevant to the pathways involved in memory formation and cognition or
that otherwise complement our development pipeline. We believe that our expertise in
these pathways enables us to identify promising compounds that can be converted to
promising CNS drug candidates. 

OUR DRUG DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS 

Our drug development pipeline currently includes four programs (an L-type calcium channel
modulator, nicotinic alpha-7 agonists, PDE4 inhibitors and PDE10 inhibitors) with drug candidates
in clinical and preclinical stages, and several other compounds with potential in our early stage
pipeline. All of our drug candidates are small molecules designed for oral dosing. Our compounds
that we have designated as drug candidates are as follows:

Stage of  

Drug candidate  
       
      Mechanism  
       
      Target indication  
       
      development  

MEM 1003 

Neuronal L-type 
calcium channel 
modulator

Alzheimer s disease   
Bipolar 
disorder

Phase 2a   
Phase 2a ready 

MEM 3454 

Nicotinic 
alpha-7 partial 
agonist

Schizophrenia 
and/or Alzheimer s 
disease

Phase 2a ready 

MEM 1414 

PDE4 inhibitor

Alzheimer s disease

Phase 1 
completed 

MEM 1917 

PDE4 inhibitor

Alzheimer s disease

Preclinical 
completed 

MEM 63908 

Nicotinic alpha-7 
partial agonist

Alzheimer s disease

Preclinical 

5

MEM 1003 for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease and bipolar disorder 

Overview of Alzheimer s disease 

Alzheimer s disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder for which there is no known cure.
Later stages of Alzheimer s disease involve severe loss of memory and other cognitive functions,
including loss of awareness of recent experiences and of surroundings, and the inability to perform
basic tasks. Patients with Alzheimer s disease also suffer from significant personality and
behavioral changes such as paranoia, delusions, hallucinations and compulsive, repetitive
behaviors.

The exact cause of Alzheimer s disease is currently unknown. The brains of all Alzheimer s
patients exhibit two characteristic pathological abnormalities: amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary
tangles. Plaques are clumps of protein that form deposits around neurons, while tangles are
composed of modified tau proteins that accumulate inside neurons. Plaques and tangles are thought
to interfere with normal neurotransmitter function and to have toxic effects on neurons.
Preclinical data from several laboratories suggests that the amyloid protein from which plaques are
formed disrupts the function of the nicotinic alpha-7 receptor, which modulates neurotransmitter
activity known to be required for the formation of long-term memories and possibly other cognitive
functions as well. Tau protein may be modified by calcium-sensitive enzymes which make it
susceptible to forming aggregates, the formation of which may be reduced by calcium channels
modulators.

Other pathological abnormalities present in Alzheimer s patients involve dysfunction of
neurotransmitters. Alzheimer s patients exhibit a deficiency of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine,
or ACh. This neurotransmitter is involved in short-term memory, alertness, and attention, and
consequently reduced ACh levels are thought to be associated with cognitive impairment. In
addition, post-mortem studies of Alzheimer s patients have identified changes in the
neurotransmitter glutamate, suggesting that over-stimulation of glutamate is in part responsible
for neuronal degeneration.

Alzheimer s patients also exhibit characteristic neuronal imbalances in the second messengers
calcium and cAMP. Clinical research indicates that cAMP plays a role in memory, suggesting that
drugs directed at this target will have beneficial effects on the treatment of memory loss
associated with Alzheimer s disease. One of the earliest manifestations of Alzheimer s disease is
an impaired regulation of calcium within CNS neurons. While small amounts of calcium are essential
for memory formation and other cognitive functions, too much calcium causes a wide variety of toxic
symptoms. Neuronal calcium levels are regulated by specific proteins known as L-type calcium
channels. Abnormal regulation of these channels is believed to be an early step in the Alzheimer s
disease process, first impairing the pathways required for memory and other cognitive functions and
eventually causing the death of the neurons.

Continuing studies of Alzheimer s disease suggest that it is a highly complex disease that
implicates numerous neurobiological pathways, presenting multiple opportunities for therapeutic
intervention.

Current therapies for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease 

The principal treatments currently approved for Alzheimer s disease belong to a class of drugs
called acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. Cholinergic neurons, or neurons that synthesize and release
ACh, are among the first to be affected by Alzheimer s disease. Therefore it was originally
thought that addressing the ACh deficit would have a significant therapeutic impact on Alzheimer s
disease. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors are designed to impede the breakdown of ACh by an enzyme
called acetylcholinesterase and work to keep levels of ACh high, despite the damage or death of
cells producing ACh. Despite the relationship between ACh and Alzheimer s disease,
acetylcholinesterase inhibitors are not particularly effective in either treating the symptoms or
stopping the progression of the disease. Only about 50% of patients taking acetylcholinesterase
inhibitors for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease experience even a modest improvement in
symptoms. For those who show improvements, these benefits typically last for only six to nine
months.

Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors produce a variety of side effects, including nausea, vomiting, loss
of appetite, diarrhea and muscle cramps. These side effects significantly limit the drug dosage
that can be safely administered, thereby restricting the ability to dose at levels that might
further slow the deterioration of neurons and impact the progression of the disease.

Another category of drugs, NMDA-receptor antagonists, is designed to mitigate the impact of
excessive glutamate release by blocking N-methyl-D-aspartate, or NMDA, receptors. There is only one
drug in this class that has been approved in the US for treatment of moderate to severe cases of
Alzheimer s disease.

6

There have also been numerous attempts to develop drugs for Alzheimer s disease that directly
target the characteristic plaques and tangles. While there are drug development programs that
continue to focus on this mechanism of action, no drug candidates from these programs have been
approved in the US.

MEM 1003 for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease 

MEM 1003, a CNS-optimized dihydropyridine, is a neuronal L-type calcium channel modulator that we
are developing for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease. By blocking L-type calcium channels, MEM
1003 may regulate the flow of calcium.

We have conducted preclinical tests of MEM 1003 in vitro as well as in animal models. In our in
vitro tests, MEM 1003 significantly blocked and regulated the function of neuronal L-type calcium
channels in brain slices and single cell cultures. In addition, we have conducted animal tests of
MEM 1003 to assess its effect on learning and memory in four different species of both healthy and
cognitively impaired animals of varying ages, including aged non-human primates. In each of these
tests, MEM 1003 improved memory and learning.

In July 2003 we completed dose-escalating, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 1a and 1b trials,
known as our Phase 1a and 1b UK trials, with 125 healthy volunteers in the United Kingdom to
evaluate the safety and tolerability profile resulting from single or multiple doses of MEM 1003.
Over a dose range of up to 180 milligrams, given twice daily, which was the maximum dose tested,
MEM 1003 was generally well tolerated. For doses of MEM 1003 up to the maximum tested, neither
young nor elderly (over age 55) volunteers experienced any clinically significant side effects.

In addition to testing safety, we assessed cognitive enhancement in 40 of the volunteers from our
Phase 1b UK trial. Both young and elderly healthy volunteers were tested using the Cognitive Drug
Research (CDR) battery. In these tests, there were statistically significant positive effects on
several of the cognitive measures of longer-term aspects of memory.

In September 2005, we completed a Phase 1b safety and tolerability study in patients with
Alzheimer s disease under a US Investigational New Drug (IND) application, known as our Phase 1b
safety and tolerability study, to assist us in assessing the differences in the safety and
tolerability profile of MEM 1003 in healthy volunteers and Alzheimer s patients for purposes of
designing the Phase 2a study. The Phase 1b safety and tolerability study was a single-center,
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study and consisted of two segments, a
double-blind dose escalation segment and a double-blind multiple dose treatment segment. In the
first segment of the study MEM 1003 or placebo was administered to 49 patients two times on one
day. Patients in this segment of the study were treated at escalating doses of MEM 1003 that
reached 120 milligrams per dose two times per day. In the double-blind multiple dose treatment
segment, 32 patients received 120 milligrams of MEM 1003 or placebo twice daily for a period of ten
days. Vital signs such as heart rate, diastolic and systolic blood pressure both supine and
standing were measured at various times during each segment of the study. During the second
segment, cognitive function was measured using the CDR battery and the Alzheimer s Disease
Assessment Scale   cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog).

MEM 1003 was safe and generally well tolerated in the Phase 1b safety and tolerability study. The
results of this study also indicated that 10 days of exposure to MEM 1003 did not result in a
statistically significant increase or decrease in cognition.

In November 2005, we commenced a Phase 2a multi-center, randomized, double-blind,
placebo-controlled study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of two dose levels of MEM 1003 in
approximately 180 patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer s disease under our US IND, known as our
Phase 2a AD clinical trial. Patients participating in this Phase 2a AD clinical trial are
randomized at enrollment into one of three treatment groups   30 milligrams of MEM 1003 twice a
day, 90 milligrams of MEM 1003 twice a day or placebo twice a day. During the double-blind
treatment segment of the study, patients receive MEM 1003 or placebo for a period of 12 weeks,
which is followed by a four week single-blind placebo treatment. The primary outcome measure of
the trial is a twelve-week change in patients  ADAS   cog scores. Secondary measures will assess
changes in activities of daily living, behavior and global function.

We are experiencing slower than anticipated enrollment in the Phase 2a AD clinical trial. As a
result, while we still expect to complete this Phase 2a AD clinical trial in the first half of
2007, we will not be able to achieve this goal unless the rate of patient enrollment significantly
increases during this time frame. We are currently exploring alternatives for increasing the
enrollment rate in the Phase 2a AD clinical trial.

We are funding the Phase 2a AD clinical trial for MEM 1003 ourselves. However, we are also
exploring the potential for a collaboration for MEM 1003.

7

Overview of bipolar disorder 

Bipolar disorder is characterized by profound cyclical changes in a person s mood, energy and
ability to function. It involves dramatic mood swings   from overly  high  and/or irritable to sad
and hopeless, and then back again, often with periods of normal mood in between. Severe changes in
energy and behavior go along with these changes in mood. The periods of highs and lows are called
episodes of mania and depression, respectively and typically recur throughout a person s life.
Between episodes, most people with bipolar disorder are free of symptoms, but as many as one-third
of people have some residual symptoms. A small percentage of people experience chronic unremitting
symptoms despite treatment. The diagnosis of bipolar disorder is based on the presence   or a past
history   of manic or hypomanic episodes together, in most cases, with episodes of depression.
Symptoms can vary significantly from episode to episode in terms of intensity, duration and the
rapidity of cycling.

Bipolar disorder typically develops in late adolescence or early adulthood. However, some people
have their first symptoms during childhood, and some develop them late in life. It is often not
recognized as an illness, and people may suffer for years before it is properly diagnosed and
treated.

The classic form of this illness, which involves recurrent episodes of mania and depression, is
called bipolar I disorder. Some people, however, never develop severe mania but instead experience
milder episodes of hypomania that alternate with depression; this form of the illness is called
bipolar II disorder. When four or more episodes of illness occur within a 12-month period, a person
is said to have rapid-cycling bipolar disorder. Some people experience multiple episodes within a
single week, or even within a single day. Rapid cycling tends to develop later in the course of
the illness and is more common among women than among men.

Current therapies for the treatment of bipolar disorder 

Because bipolar disorder is a recurrent illness, long-term preventive treatment is strongly
recommended and almost always indicated. The cyclical character of bipolar disorder has lead to
segmentation of the market and the labeled indications (acute mania, maintenance and bipolar
depression). Accepted mood stabilizers include lithium, valproate (Depacote), tegretol and other
anti-convulsant agents. Atypical antipsychotic medications, including clozapine, olanzapine,
risperidone, quetiapine, and ziprasidone have been approved for use in bipolar disorder. The
initial labelling for these products has been in the treatment of acute mania, but many of them are
now being studied for the longer-term  maintenance  indication as well.

MEM 1003 for the treatment of bipolar disorder 

In December 2005, we entered into a development agreement with SMRI, pursuant to which we plan to
conduct a Phase 2a clinical trial of MEM 1003 in acute mania in bipolar disorder. We refer to this
trial as our Phase 2a bipolar disorder trial. We currently plan to commence this trial in the
first half of 2006.

The molecular and cellular basis for bipolar disorder is poorly understood and there are no animal
models that faithfully reproduce the cyclic course of illness that is the hallmark of this
condition. Most of the drugs currently approved for the treatment of bipolar disorder were first
developed and approved as either anti-psychotics (and only, later, as anti-manic agents in bipolar
disorder) or anti-epileptics (and only, later, as mood stabilizers in bipolar disorder). Lithium
has been used as a treatment for bipolar disorder for decades, but the specific biochemical
mechanism of lithium s action is still unknown. These current therapies are not efficacious in all
patients and/or show only limited benefit. In addition, they often produce a variety of side
effects.

Studies with certain readily accessible tissues (e.g. platelets, lymphocytes and olfactory
epithelial neurons, or even post-mortem brain samples) have revealed elevated intracellular calcium
levels, abnormal calcium signaling responses or changes in the expression of genes related to
calcium signaling pathways in patients with bipolar disorder, when compared to normal controls. It
has been postulated that at least part of the efficacy of some mood stabilizers may be based on the
normalization of calcium levels in the cells of bipolar disorder patients that can be seen with
chronic treatment.

A number of case studies and open label trials have reported positive results when using calcium
channel blockers as a treatment for acute mania. We believe that a CNS-optimized dihydropyridine
(like MEM 1003) if tested in a well-controlled randomized clinical trial may be able to achieve
efficacy and may demonstrate a superior safety profile in this indication.

MEM 3454 for the treatment of schizophrenia and/or Alzheimer s disease 

Overview of schizophrenia 

Schizophrenia is a neurological brain disorder that interferes with a person s ability to think
clearly, manage emotions, make decisions, and relate to others. Specific symptoms include delusions
and hallucinations, an inability to sort and interpret incoming

8

sensations and a corresponding inability to respond appropriately, and an altered sense of self. No
single defect appears to be responsible for schizophrenia. Rather, multiple genetic and
environmental factors seem to contribute to disturbances in brain function.

Current therapies for the treatment of schizophrenia 

Current drug treatments for schizophrenia modulate primarily the level of the neurotransmitter
dopamine by blocking the actions of this neurotransmitter at the receptor level. This approach is
based on the belief that decreasing the activity of the receptor negates the impact of the increase
in the neurotransmitter. Other drug therapies target multiple neurotransmitter systems and
receptors. Approximately 30% of individuals with schizophrenia do not respond to current
medications at all and, even for those who benefit, these drugs often do not address the social
withdrawal, affective changes and emotional behavior associated with the disease. Moreover,
existing drugs are not designed to address or resolve the cognitive impairments associated with
this disease. Current drug therapies for schizophrenia produce a variety of side effects. In
particular, some of these antipsychotic drugs may result in weight gain, which can lead to an
increase in the incidence of Type II diabetes and stroke in patients with schizophrenia.

MEM 3454 

MEM 3454 is a partial agonist of the nicotinic alpha-7 receptor that we are developing as a
potential therapy for schizophrenia and/or Alzheimer s disease. Studies have shown that
schizophrenic patients can experience relief of symptoms through the administration of nicotine,
which binds to nicotinic receptors. We believe that these nicotinic receptors play a significant
role in long-term memory formation and other cognitive functions. Nicotine, however, is associated
with significant side effects, including cardiovascular disease, and cannot effectively be used as
a therapeutic agent.

One of the nicotinic receptors is the nicotinic alpha-7 receptor. The nicotinic alpha-7 receptor is
a highly specialized receptor found in the CNS, particularly in the hippocampal region of the
brain. This receptor modulates neurotransmitter activity known to be required for the formation of
long-term memories, and we believe that it plays an important role in other cognitive functions as
well. The nicotinic alpha-7 receptor has been linked genetically with schizophrenia. We believe
that compounds acting on the nicotinic receptor could be beneficial in the treatment of
schizophrenia. In addition, given the role of the nicotinic receptor in cognitive function, we
believe it could also be beneficial for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease.

An agonist is a molecule that binds to a receptor and mimics the action of the transmitter specific
for that receptor. Full agonists tend to lose their ability to induce activity after repeated
administration. Partial agonists, on the other hand, do not typically result in the same
desensitization. We have combined our knowledge of receptor action in the brain with our
understanding of nicotinic alpha-7 receptors to develop partial agonists for this receptor. MEM
3454 is the lead compound from our nicotinic alpha-7 partial agonist series.

MEM 3454 has demonstrated efficacy in several preclinical animal models of schizophrenia. MEM 3454
generated positive results in preclinical models of antipsychotic drug action, including the
animals  ability to process information in a coordinated fashion. MEM 3454 has also demonstrated
activity in multiple animal models of cognition. In addition, in a preclinical test administering
MEM 3454 for seven days, there was no evidence of weight gain in the animal models.

In February 2006, we completed a Phase 1 clinical trial program for MEM 3454 in healthy volunteers
under Clinical Trial Applications that we filed with Health Canada. The single-center Phase 1
program consisted of four segments: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the
safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of single ascending doses of MEM 3454, which involved 56
healthy young male volunteers; a standard food interaction study, which involved 12 volunteers; a
single ascending dose study, which involved 15 elderly volunteers; and a randomized, double-blind,
placebo-controlled multiple ascending dose (MAD) study to investigate the safety, tolerability and
pharmacokinetics of three doses of MEM 3454 (15 milligrams, 50 milligrams, and 150 milligrams once
per day for 14 days), which involved 48 healthy young male and female volunteers. The MAD study
included cognition testing using the CDR battery. Preliminary cognitive data from the MAD study of
the Phase 1 clinical trial program demonstrated that a 15 milligram dose of MEM 3454, administered
once daily for a period of 13 days showed a statistically significant positive effect on the
Quality of Episodic Secondary Memory (QESM), one of the study s primary efficacy variables. QESM
is a composite score derived from memory tests in the CDR battery that measure the efficiency with
which study participants are able to remember words and pictures. This effect at 15 milligrams is
consistent with our preclinical results for MEM 3454.

The other doses administered in the study did not show a similarly statistically significant
positive effect, although there was a trend toward efficacy at the 50 milligram dose. Other
domains in the CDR battery measure other cognitive effects such as psychomotor speed and attention,
and while trends toward improvement were also seen on these domains at 15 milligrams of MEM 3454,
the results were not as substantial as those obtained for the QESM domain.

9

We currently anticipate commencing a Phase 2 clinical trial of MEM 3454 in schizophrenia or
Alzheimer s disease in the first half of 2006.

Under our Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement, Roche has the right to obtain an exclusive
license for MEM 3454 following the completion of Phase 2a clinical trials for this drug candidate,
by making payments to us upon our achievement of certain developmental milestones. If, at any
point during the development of MEM 3454, Roche chose not to maintain its license option with
respect to this drug candidate, we would not receive further milestone payments or other support
from Roche for its continued development.

MEM 1414 for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease 

MEM 1414 is a PDE4 inhibitor for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease. PDE4 inhibitors are
designed to inhibit the activity of PDE4, the enzyme which breaks down neuronal cAMP. Studies have
shown that administering PDE4 inhibitors can have a restorative effect on memory loss in animal
models, including those of Alzheimer s disease. Based on these findings, in addition to our own
research on the neuronal pathways involved in Alzheimer s disease, we believe that we may be able
to treat this disease by increasing the levels of neuronal cAMP.

In preclinical tests of cognition in several species, MEM 1414 reversed memory deficits and
demonstrated significant and sustained improvements in cognitive function over a wide dose range.
Furthermore, after a single dose applied to a rat model, positive effects on long-term memory were
sustained over a three-month period.

In February 2005, Roche completed a Phase 1 clinical trial program for MEM 1414. The Phase 1
program consisted of four trials: a double blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the safety,
tolerability and pharmacokinetics of single ascending doses of MEM 1414, in which 32 volunteers
received MEM 1414; a bioequivalence study, in which 15 volunteers received MEM 1414; a scopolamine
challenge study, in which 38 volunteers received MEM 1414, and a MAD study, in which 40 healthy
elderly volunteers received MEM 1414 for 14 days. At all doses tested in this Phase 1 clinical
trial program, MEM 1414 was safe and generally well tolerated. There were no clinically
significant abnormal laboratory findings and there were no serious adverse events reported in the
SAD study that were attributable to the drug. The pharmacokinetics of MEM 1414 were linear at the
dose ranges tested and the drug was rapidly absorbed after oral administration. Food and age had
no significant effect on the bioavailability of MEM 1414. A total of 31 volunteers in the MAD
study reported adverse events and these were randomly distributed among each of the dose groups and
the placebo groups. The majority of the events were mild and only a few were classified as
moderate in intensity. None of the reported moderate adverse events required treatment or dose
adjustment and there were no subject withdrawals during the MAD study.

In April 2005, Roche decided not to pursue further clinical development of the two named compounds
under our 2002 Roche Agreement, MEM 1414 and its back-up candidate, MEM 1917. In August 2005, we
reacquired the rights to MEM 1414 from Roche. We have evaluated the data that we received from
Roche and are currently exploring the potential for a new collaboration for MEM 1414. Any further
development of MEM 1414 will be funded largely through such a collaboration. We cannot assure you
that we will be successful in securing a new collaboration partner for MEM 1414 or that we will
continue its development on our own.

MEM 1917 for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease and depression 

MEM 1917 is a PDE4 inhibitor and a back-up candidate to MEM 1414 for the treatment of Alzheimer s
disease. As is the case with MEM 1414, MEM 1917 is designed to inhibit the activity of PDE4, the
enzyme that breaks down neuronal cAMP.

MEM 1917 is also a potential candidate for the treatment of depression. We believe that the
pathways involved in memory formation may also be implicated in depression, although this link is
not fully established or understood. If there are shared pathways in memory formation and
depression, increasing levels of cAMP by inhibiting the action of PDE4 may remediate the neuronal
imbalances and the cognitive impairments that occur in depressed patients.

Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and dual uptake inhibitors are the principal drugs
currently approved for depression. These drugs work by impeding the brain s breakdown of serotonin,
a key neurotransmitter that is depleted in depressed patients and, in the case of dual uptake
inhibitors, a second neurotransmitter norepinephrine as well. These existing drugs can produce
several side effects, including headaches, nausea, nervousness, insomnia, agitation and sexual
dysfunction, which significantly limit the dosage that can be safely administered. This, in turn,
can reduce the effectiveness of these drugs. Another major drawback of these therapies is their
relatively slow onset, requiring several weeks of administration before a patient may experience a
therapeutic effect. We believe that PDE4 inhibitors, through their impact on cAMP, may provide the
potential for a safer and faster-acting therapy than current therapies for depression.

10

In multiple animal behavior models of cognitive impairment, MEM 1917 has reversed memory deficits.
In addition, in several animal models of depression, MEM 1917 has demonstrated efficacy in both
short-term and long-term tests of antidepressant activity.

In August 2005, we reacquired the rights to MEM 1917 from Roche, following Roche s earlier decision
not to pursue the clinical development of this drug candidate. We have evaluated the data that we
received from Roche and are currently exploring the potential for a new collaboration for MEM 1917.
Any further development of MEM 1917 will be funded largely through such a collaboration. We
cannot assure you that we will be successful in securing a new collaboration partner for MEM 1917
or that we will continue its development on our own.

MEM 63908 for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease 

MEM 63908 is a partial agonist of the nicotinic alpha-7 receptor that we are developing as a
potential treatment for Alzheimer s disease.

Among other pathological abnormalities, Alzheimer s patients typically exhibit amyloid plaques,
which are clumps of protein that form deposits around neurons. Preclinical data from several
laboratories suggests that the amyloid protein from which these plaques are formed disrupts the
function of the nicotinic alpha-7 receptor. We believe that as a partial agonist of the nicotinic
alpha-7 receptor, MEM 63908 could overcome the effect of the amyloid protein and thereby be
beneficial in the treatment of Alzheimer s disease.

We have conducted animal tests of MEM 63908 to assess its effect on learning and memory. We used
various behavior assays to test the effect of MEM 63908 on memory and learning. In these tests,
MEM 63908 improved learning and memory in healthy and aged cognitively impaired animals. MEM 63908
has also demonstrated a favorable profile in toxicological and safety studies.

Under our Amended and Restated 2003 Agreement with Roche, Roche has an exclusive license to MEM
63908.

PDE10 Inhibitor Program 

PDE10 is an enzyme that has been shown to be present at high levels in neurons in areas of the
brain that are closely associated with many neurological and psychiatric disorders. PDE10 degrades
the intracellular signaling molecules cAMP and cGMP, molecules that are responsible for improving
the function of many different cells in the body, including neurons. By inhibiting PDE10, levels
of cAMP and cGMP are increased within neurons and the ability of these neurons to function properly
is thereby improved. We believe that PDE10 inhibitors may be useful in treating a range of
neurological and psychiatric disorders. We have identified two chemical series of compounds that
have demonstrated effectiveness in the selective inhibition of PDE10 activity.

Under our 2005 Amgen Agreement, Amgen has an exclusive license to any PDE10 inhibitors that we
develop.

Drug Discovery Programs 

In addition to our preclinical and clinical drug candidates, we continue to work on new targets and
new chemistries. We are testing a number of compounds  in vitro  and in animal models for efficacy,
safety and toxicity. Our pipeline includes additional compounds that we are exploring for the
treatment of Alzheimer s disease, schizophrenia and depression. We intend to apply our expertise
in the future to encompass a wider spectrum of neurological and psychiatric disorders by expanding
the application of existing compounds and optimizing new compounds for these and other disorders
such as vascular dementia, MCI, Parkinson s disease, age associated cognitive decline, memory
impairment from coronary artery bypass grafting, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder,
chemotherapy-induced cognitive impairment, obsessive compulsive disorder and alcohol-induced
cognitive impairment.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

Our drug discovery programs are designed to yield effective and safe drug candidates. By
performing benchmark safety and efficacy tests early in the process and only advancing the most
promising drug candidates, we believe that we are able to accelerate the overall drug development
timeline and provide higher quality drug candidates with reduced risk of failure in clinical
trials. We strive to achieve a high level of productivity in our drug discovery and development
programs in part through the close integration of our research group and development group.

Our research efforts focus on identifying new molecular targets that play a role in the formation,
modification and stabilization of synaptic connections in the human brain. We clone these targets
and study their functions by developing and applying various assays. To discover active compounds,
we screen the targets against libraries of compounds that embody properties that would make them

11

suitable for use as CNS drugs. Compounds are tested and optimized in an iterative process designed
to produce highly specific, orally available drug candidates suitable for CNS indications. Set
forth below is a summary description of the five principal components of our drug selection
process.

Target selection 

We select targets that we believe have an important role within the pathways involved in long-term
memory formation, are well distributed in the relevant areas of the brain, and are within the class
of proteins that are suitable as drug targets. These targets may regulate neurotransmitter
signaling, modulate second messengers that carry the signal from the synapse to the rest of the
neuron, or sensitize the receptors and channels in the synapse.

CNS chemistry 

Using internal and external chemistry resources, we employ a combination of medicinal,
combinatorial and analytical chemistry procedures to maximize the chances of discovering specific
and efficacious lead compounds. To produce lead optimization candidates, we employ an iterative
process in which medicinal chemists who synthesize novel chemical entities work with our
neurobiologists and pharmacologists to improve the desirable features of the compound, while
reducing the potential for undesired characteristics. We select compounds strategically, and
synthesize focused chemical libraries based on their degree of target specificity, binding
properties and biological functionality.

Animal model screening processes 

We have developed a series of assays that act within progressively more complex and realistic
biological environments in order to systematically evaluate potential drug candidates for their
effect on memory and other cognitive functions. The process begins with cell-based assays performed
in test tubes, which assist us in understanding the biochemical effect of compounds. Next,
proprietary assays are used to measure electrical activity in brain slices of rats and mice. These
sophisticated neurobehavioral assays allow us to determine the neurophysiological effect of
compounds before using more complex and expensive animal models. Finally, we have developed animal
behavior models, using both young and old rats and mice that allow us to assess different aspects
and phases of long-term memory and cognition. We use naturally-aged impaired mice and rats for
these studies, which we believe ensures a more realistic physiology than would be available in
young animals with artificially-induced age characteristics. We believe that the animal models we
have developed and employ enhance our ability to predict promising drug candidates on a more
focused and informed basis.

Preclinical safety and pharmacokinetics 

Our safety specialists study the interaction of our potential drug candidates with the intended
target as well as with the rest of the body. They measure the ability of the compound to be
absorbed and to reach the intended target, and they determine how the drug is metabolized within,
and removed from, the body. They also study the potential for side effects.

An anatomical and functional feature of the brain that makes it difficult to formulate CNS-specific
therapeutics is the blood-brain barrier. This barrier can prevent drugs from entering the brain
from blood vessels. We have significant expertise and experience in using rat and mouse models to
assess the plasma/brain ratios of compounds in a steady state, which is indicative of a compound s
ability to penetrate the blood-brain barrier. We control these analytical tests by conducting these
analyses in our own laboratories, which are designed to meet Good Laboratory Practice standards, as
mandated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

Bioinformatics and information technology systems 

We deploy an advanced informatics infrastructure to support our research and development efforts.
Our hardware infrastructure includes a high-speed internal network with data integrity and security
measures. Our software infrastructure is tailored to address our specific needs, including research
logistics, scientific data management and analysis. Productivity-enhancing systems have been put in
place to handle many routine aspects of conducting pharmaceutical research. An enterprise-wide
scientific data management system captures critical information on chemical structures and
associated biological data to create a shared knowledge-base designed to accelerate the drug
development process. We employ scientists cross-trained in information technology to assess and
implement commercially available scientific computing tools or to develop new tools internally.

12

COLLABORATIONS, DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS AND IN-LICENSES 

We seek to enter into collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and we
believe that this enables us to leverage these companies  resources to exploit our drug candidates
on a global basis, while allowing us to remain focused on early stage development and discovery of
drug candidates. Another important component of our strategy is to augment our internal drug
discovery programs through the selective in-licensing or acquisition of preclinical and clinical
development stage compounds that we believe are relevant to the pathways involved in memory
formation and other cognitive functions or that otherwise complement our development pipeline.

We have two separate collaborations with Roche, one for the development of our PDE4 inhibitors, and
the other for the development of our nicotinic alpha-7 agonists. We also have a collaboration with
Amgen for the development of PDE10 inhibitors. In addition to our collaborations, we have a
development agreement with SMRI for the development of MEM 1003 as a treatment for bipolar
disorder. In June 2001, we in-licensed our lead candidate for the treatment of Alzheimer s
disease, MEM 1003, from Bayer AG, or Bayer.

2002 Roche Agreement 

In July 2002, we entered into an agreement with Roche for the development of PDE4 inhibitors for
the treatment of neurological and psychiatric indications, and potentially other indications.
Under this agreement, we granted Roche a worldwide, exclusive, sub-licensable license to our patent
rights and know-how with respect to any PDE4 inhibitor developed under the agreement, for the
prevention and treatment of diseases, in all indications, for either human or veterinary use. In
addition, Roche provided us with research and development funding under this agreement, initially
for a two-year period, which was extended in August 2004 for an additional two years. In February
2006, in connection with an amendment to our 2003 Roche Agreement described below, we further
amended the 2002 Roche Agreement to terminate Roche s obligation to make research and development
funding payments in support of the PDE4 research collaboration.

Roche has paid us a total of $25.1 million through December 31, 2005 under the 2002 Roche
Agreement, comprised of an upfront license fee of $8.0 million, research and development funding of
$13.1 million, and milestone payments totalling $4.0 million.

Roche is obligated to make milestone payments to us if we achieve specified development, regulatory
and commercialization milestones (including sales level milestones following a product s launch)
for certain indications. These indications include neurological, psychiatric and non-CNS
indications for our PDE4 inhibitors, as well as any neurological or psychiatric indication for any
PDE4 inhibitor developed by Roche without using our technology. We are also entitled to royalties
based on a specified percentage of net sales of products, which increases at increasing net sales
levels, during the term of the agreement. Royalty payments will expire generally on a
country-by-country basis on the later to occur of (i) the expiration of the last to expire patent
containing a composition of matter claim in a given country and (ii) ten years following the launch
of the product in that country.

Two of our drug candidates for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease, MEM 1414 and MEM 1917, were
designated as drug candidates under the 2002 Roche Agreement. In August 2005, we amended the 2002
Roche Agreement to reacquire the right to develop and commercialize MEM 1414 and MEM 1917,
following Roche s earlier decision not to pursue further clinical development of these candidates.
Under the terms of the amendment, Roche has an option, exercisable following the completion of
Phase 2 clinical trials for each of these drug candidates, to continue that drug candidate s
development and commercialization. If Roche does not exercise this option with respect to a drug
candidate, then Roche will have no further rights or interest with respect to that drug candidate.

If Roche exercises its option to obtain an exclusive license to continue the development of and
commercialize either MEM 1414 and/or MEM 1917, we will be entitled to receive an upfront payment
and certain development-related milestone payments for development events occurring after the
initiation of Phase 3 for each licensed drug candidate. We will also be entitled to royalties
based on worldwide net sales.

Under our 2002 Roche Agreement, as amended, if Roche decides to offer to a third party a right to
co-promote any product covered by the agreement (not including MEM 1414 and MEM 1917 products),
Roche will be obligated to first offer this co-promotion opportunity to us. Our co-promotion
option will terminate in the event of our change of control. Under the terms of amendments to the
agreement in August 2005 and February 2006, if Roche exercises its license option with respect to
MEM 1414 and/or MEM 1917, we will have co-promotion rights, which are assignable with Roche s prior
written consent, in (i) the US or (ii) in the US and the European Union, subject to our fulfilment
of certain conditions, including contributing a percentage of Phase 3 actual global development
costs. In such case, Roche shall be relieved of its obligation to pay us royalties for sales of
that drug candidate in the applicable co-promotion territory during the co-promotion term. The
co-promotion term for any drug candidate that Roche licenses from us will be ten years from the
first commercialization of that drug candidate in the US and if we exercise our co-promotion right
in the US; the co-promotion term in the EU, if applicable, will be ten years from the first
commercialization of that drug candidate in

13

the EU, unless, in either case, earlier terminated by us under certain circumstances. If Roche
exercises its option to obtain an exclusive license to continue the development of and
commercialize either MEM 1414 and/or MEM 1917 and we do not exercise our co-promotion right, if
any, with respect to either MEM 1414 or MEM 1917 or we do not enter into a co-promotion agreement
with Roche, then Roche will have the sole right to commercialize that drug candidate.

The 2002 Roche Agreement may be terminated by either party following an uncured material breach by
the other party. In addition, we have the right to terminate the agreement on a product-by-product
or region-by-region basis, or in its entirety in certain cases, if Roche does not use reasonable
diligence to develop, obtain regulatory approvals for, manufacture or commercialize products in
certain key countries. Roche has the right to terminate the agreement on a region-by-region or
product-by-product basis or in its entirety. In addition, if we do not consent to a proposed
sublicense by Roche to a third party, Roche may also terminate under certain circumstances for the
territory to which such proposed sublicense relates. Unless it is earlier terminated, the
agreement will terminate on the date of expiration of all royalty and other payment obligations
under the agreement.

Upon the termination of the agreement as to any country, region or product, the rights and licenses
granted to Roche under the agreement as to such country, region or product will terminate, except
that Roche can use collaboration technology other than for PDE4 inhibitors. In addition, at our
request, Roche is required to transfer certain filings, rights, approvals, agreements and data
relating to such product to us at no expense. Further, upon any such termination, we would have a
non-royalty bearing license under related Roche intellectual property rights to commercialize such
product or in such country or region.

Amended and Restated 2003 Roche collaboration 

In August 2003, we entered into a second collaboration with Roche for the development of nicotinic
alpha-7 agonists for the treatment of CNS indications including schizophrenia and Alzheimer s
disease. We refer to this agreement as the original 2003 Roche Agreement. This agreement was
amended and restated on February 27, 2006 and, unless otherwise noted, the agreement, as amended
and restated, is described in this section. Under the terms of the Amended and Restated 2003 Roche
Agreement, we have granted to Roche a worldwide, exclusive, sublicensable license to all of our
patent rights and know-how with respect to our nicotinic alpha-7 agonists, other than MEM 3454, for
the prevention and treatment of diseases, in all indications, for either human or veterinary use.
With respect to MEM 3454, Roche has the option to obtain a license following our completion of the
Phase 2a clinical trial for this drug candidate. Roche maintains this license option by paying
pre-specified license rights maintenance fees to us.

Under the terms of the Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement, we will collaborate with Roche in
conducting certain early stage research and development activities with respect to compounds being
developed under a predefined research workplan. We are responsible for conducting Phase 1 clinical
trials for such compounds and Roche is responsible for development from Phase 2a onwards and for
commercialization. We will receive an aggregate of $1.75 million of research and development
funding in 2006. Subject to the determination by the parties that certain specified preclinical
criteria have been achieved, we will be eligible to receive an aggregate of approximately $2.3
million (based on 1USD: 1.31 CHF) in research and development funding in 2007. Subject to
specified exceptions, we have the right to terminate our research and development obligations if,
prior to March 31, 2007, Roche has not committed to provide the 2007 research and development
funding.

Under the Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement, Roche has paid us a total of $28.0 million
through December 31, 2005, comprised of an upfront license fee of $10 million, research and
development funding of $6.0, a milestone payment of $2.0 million and an equity investment. In the
equity investment, Roche purchased shares of our series Roche preferred stock for an aggregate of
$10.0 million (which converted into 925,926 shares of common stock on the closing date of our
initial public offering), and received warrants to purchase 115,740 shares of common stock at an
exercise price of $12.96 per share.

The Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement obligates Roche to make milestone payments to us upon
our achievement of specified development, regulatory and commercialization milestones (including
sales level milestones) for compounds other than MEM 3454 that are developed under the agreement.
The level of milestone payments is based upon whether the compound is covered by certain of our
patent rights and/or is specified by us as of the effective time of the agreement, on the one hand,
or otherwise is developed by Roche or by Roche and us jointly pursuant to the collaboration, on the
other hand. We are also entitled to receive royalties based on a specified percentage of net sales
of products developed under the agreement. The royalties increase at increasing net sales levels
and are subject to reduction under certain circumstances. If Roche exercises the license option
for MEM 3454, we are entitled to receive milestone payments and royalties on net sales of products
containing MEM 3454 at the rates provided for in the original 2003 Roche Agreement. The royalty
term expires for a particular product (including for products containing MEM 3454) on the later to
occur of (i) the expiration of the last to expire of the applicable patent that covers the product
and contains a composition of matter claim in a given country, and (ii) ten years following the
launch of the product in that country.

14

If Roche exercises the license option for MEM 3454, we will have the right to co-promote in the US
any product containing MEM 3454. This co-promotion right will be subject to the terms of a
separate co-promotion agreement to be negotiated and the payment by us of a specified percentage of
Roche s budgeted Phase 3 global development costs for that product. If we exercise our
co-promotion right with respect to a product containing MEM 3454, we will be entitled to a
specified percentage of the gross profits from US sales of that product in exchange for a reduction
in royalties on US sales otherwise payable to us by Roche.

Either party may terminate the agreement upon the failure to cure a material breach after sixty
(60) days notice. Roche may also terminate the agreement upon six or twelve months  notice (i) on
a region-by-region basis, or (ii) on a product-by-product basis with respect to one or more
regions. Roche may also elect not to maintain its option to license MEM 3454. Upon a change of
control of our company, Roche has the right to terminate our participation in the research and
development collaboration, although any such termination would not affect Roche s financial
obligations under the agreement.

Subject to specified exceptions, if the Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement is terminated, in
whole or in part prior to the date on which all royalty and other payment obligations under the
agreement expire, the applicable licenses granted by us to Roche under the agreement will
terminate. Roche would then be required to transfer to us certain filings, rights, approvals,
agreements and data relating to compounds developed in the collaboration, including those based on
MEM 3454, at no expense to us. Additionally, upon termination of the agreement under specified
circumstances, we would have the right to negotiate to obtain from Roche an exclusive
royalty-bearing license with respect to certain of Roche s rights in compounds that were jointly
developed and certain related Roche and jointly developed intellectual property rights, know-how
and property.

2005 Amgen Agreement 

On October 14, 2005, we entered into a Collaboration and License Agreement with Amgen for the
development of PDE10 inhibitors primarily intended for neurological and psychiatric indications.
Under the terms of the agreement, we granted to Amgen a worldwide, exclusive, sublicensable license
to our PDE10 inhibitor intellectual property and to any PDE10 intellectual property jointly
developed by us and Amgen, for the prevention and treatment of diseases, in all indications, for
all uses. We and Amgen also granted certain licenses to each other related to non-PDE10 technology
arising from our research collaboration.

Under the terms of the agreement, we received a $5.0 million up-front fee in November 2005 and are
receiving research and development funding as well. We and Amgen are conducting a collaborative
preclinical research program relating to PDE10 inhibitors for a two-year period in accordance with
a predefined research workplan. Subject to Amgen s right to terminate the agreement or terminate
specified rights thereunder, we are entitled to receive (i) $3.3 million in research funding during
the first year of the research collaboration, and (ii) a minimum of $1.8 million in research
funding during the second year of the research collaboration. Amgen is also obligated to make
milestone payments to us for the achievement of pre-specified research, development, regulatory
approval and sales milestones relating to PDE10 inhibitors.

During the term of the agreement, we are also entitled to royalties based on a specified percentage
of net sales of products. These royalties increase at increasing net sales levels and are subject
to reduction under certain circumstances. The royalty term will expire for Primary Products (as
defined) on the later to occur of (i) the expiration of the last to expire of a patent that covers
a product and either contains a composition of matter claim in a given country or satisfies other
specified criteria and (ii) ten years following the launch of the Primary Product in that country.
The royalty term for Secondary Products (as defined) is ten years following the launch in that
country. The determination as to whether a product is a Primary Product or a Secondary Product,
and the determination of the royalty term for each Product, is to be determined on a country by
country basis.

If we experience a change of control, certain of our rights and certain of Amgen s obligations
under the agreement are automatically terminated (subject to reinstatement in certain cases)
including, in certain circumstances, Amgen s obligations to use commercially reasonable efforts to
develop and commercialize PDE10 inhibitors under the agreement. A  change of control  includes,
among other events, the acquisition of more than 20% of our securities by certain third parties.
Amgen may reinstate any one or more of these rights and obligations.

Amgen has the right to terminate the agreement upon 60 days  written notice for any reason. Either
party may terminate the agreement upon written notice following an uncured material breach. Unless
earlier terminated, the agreement ends on the date all royalty and other payment obligations under
the agreement terminate, at which time Amgen shall have fully paid up license rights under the
agreement. In addition, in the event of an uncured material breach by us, Amgen has the right to
terminate certain of Amgen s obligations and certain of our rights under the agreement. If the
2005 Amgen Agreement terminates, except as otherwise provided, all licenses granted under the
agreement by us to Amgen terminate on the effective date of termination, other than (i) a license
from us to Amgen covering PDE10 inhibitor technology for Amgen s internal research purposes only
and (ii) a license from us

15

to Amgen, on a non-exclusive basis, covering non-PDE10 technology developed in the course of the
collaboration. In addition, under certain circumstances, we have the right, at any time during the
90-day period following the termination of the agreement, to cause Amgen to enter into good faith
discussions for a limited period regarding Amgen s licensing to us certain Amgen rights relating to
PDE10. Such right does not apply to a termination by Amgen of the agreement by reason of (i) our
change of control or (ii) our material uncured breach or (iii) early termination of the agreement
for safety concerns as to PDE10 or a relevant compound or product.

The Stanley Medical Research Institute Development Agreement 

On December 20, 2005, we entered into a development agreement with SMRI for the development of MEM
1003 as a treatment for bipolar disorder or schizophrenia. Under the terms of the SMRI Agreement,
we are eligible to receive up to $3.2 million in funding from SMRI to support the development of
MEM 1003 for the treatment of bipolar disorder or schizophrenia over the development term of three
years, which term may be extended for additional one-year periods. We received $960,000 of this
funding in exchange for the issuance of 440,367 shares of our common stock and a warrant to
purchase 154,128 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $2.62 per share that becomes
exercisable on June 17, 2006 and expires on December 19, 2010. We are eligible to receive the
remaining $2.24 million as milestones payments upon our achievement of certain milestones related
to the Phase 2a trial in bipolar disorder, which we currently plan to commence in the first half of
2006. If we fail to achieve the third milestone by December 31, 2007, then we will be required to
refund to SMRI the portion of the $2.24 million of development funding advanced by SMRI as of that
date.

Under the terms of the development agreement, SMRI is entitled to receive royalties on (i) annual
net sales, by us and our affiliates, of MEM 1003 for the treatment of schizophrenia or bipolar
disorder and (ii) royalty payments received by us from licensees of MEM 1003. We have the right to
fulfill our royalty payment obligations to SMRI at various times throughout the term of the
development agreement by making a lump sum payment of a pre-specified amount which amount varies
based upon when such payment is made. The maximum amount of royalties payable by us to SMRI under
the agreement is capped at a specified amount. SMRI is also entitled to receive a percentage of
cash fees or other payments received by us from any third party to whom we license certain
inventions developed under the development agreement.

SMRI may terminate the development agreement in specified circumstances, including (i) if it
believes that reasonable progress is not occurring in the accordance with the development plan, or
(ii) if we enter into a strategic alliance covering MEM 1003. We may terminate the development
agreement if we enter into a strategic alliance covering MEM 1003 or if we transfer or sell all or
substantially all of our business to which the development agreement relates. In the event that we
terminate the development agreement, certain of SMRI s rights under the development agreement will
survive, including our right to receive royalty payments thereunder.

Bayer AG In-license 

In June 2001, we entered into an agreement with Bayer for an exclusive, worldwide, sub-licensable
license under certain Bayer patents and know-how to MEM1003 for the treatment of human peripheral
and CNS-related disorders. We have also exercised an option to acquire a non-exclusive, world-wide
license to certain Bayer patents and know-how relating to certain controlled release formulations
developed for Bayer for an unrelated product. Under the agreement, we must use commercially
reasonable efforts to develop products using the compound covered by this agreement and to
commercialize those products in the US, Japan and four countries of the European Union to be
selected by us. Bayer is under no obligation to provide us with any assistance in the development
and commercialization of products covered by the agreement.

Under the license agreement, we made an upfront payment of $250,000 to Bayer as well as milestone
payments of $750,000 upon the initiation of Phase 1 clinical trials and $1.0 million upon the
commencement of Phase 2a clinical trials. We are required to make additional payments of up to
$18.0 million upon the achievement of specified milestones. We are also obligated to pay royalties
during the term of the agreement based on a specified percentage of worldwide net sales of products
covered by the license agreement, which increases at increasing net sales levels and varies
depending on whether the sales are made by us or by a sub-licensee. Royalty payment obligations
will end on a country by country basis upon the expiration of the last patent rights in a given
country or after ten years from the first commercial sale of a product covered by the license
agreement in a given country, whichever is longer.

The license agreement may be terminated by either party following an uncured breach by the other
party. Bayer also has the right to terminate the license agreement if we fail to make timely
payments of any amounts due to Bayer under the license agreement. Unless otherwise terminated, the
agreement terminates upon the expiration of the last-to-expire patent rights granted under the
agreement. Issued patents from the US, Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain and Spain, the
largest markets in which patents covered by the

16

agreement have been issued, expire in late 2014 through 2015, although they are eligible for patent
term extensions of up to five years. Patent applications are pending in Japan and Canada. Upon
termination of the license agreement for any reason, other than an uncured breach by Bayer, all
rights and licenses granted to us under the license agreement will terminate. In addition, upon
termination of the license agreement as a result of our uncured breach, at Bayer s request we will
also have to disclose and transfer all of the rights we may have to the data and results, including
any inventions, of our development efforts relating to MEM 1003.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection
for our drug candidates, technology and know-how, to operate without infringing the proprietary
rights of others and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. Our policy is to
seek to protect our chemical compounds and technologies by, among other methods, filing US and
foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that
are important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how,
continuing technological innovation and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our
proprietary position. We, or our licensors, file patent applications directed to all drug
candidates in an effort to establish intellectual property positions regarding new chemical
entities relating to our product candidates as well as uses of new chemical entities in the
treatment of CNS disorders. In total, as of March 15, 2006, we owned or licensed from Bayer seven
issued US patents, 47 pending US patent applications, 114 issued foreign patents and 239 pending
foreign patent applications.

The patent positions of companies like ours are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and
factual questions. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary position for our technology
will depend on our success in obtaining effective patent claims and enforcing those claims once
granted. We do not know whether any of our patent applications or those patent applications that we
license will result in the issuance of any patents. Our issued patents and those that may issue in
the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or
circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products or
the length of term of patent protection that we may have for our products. In addition, the rights
granted under any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages against competitors
with similar compounds or technology. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop
similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us in a manner that does not infringe
our patents or other intellectual property. Because of the extensive time required for development,
testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our drug
candidates or those developed by our collaborators can be commercialized, any related patent may
expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any
advantage of the patent.

We may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade
secrets are difficult to establish and enforce. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and
processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific
advisors and other contractors. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate
remedies for any breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be
independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or
contractors use technology or know-how owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as
to the rights in related inventions.

MEM 1003 

As a result of our in-licensing agreement with Bayer, we have rights to several patents and patent
applications, including five issued US patents, one pending US patent application, 110 issued
foreign patents, and 23 pending foreign patent applications relating to MEM 1003. Issued patents
from the US, Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain and Spain, the largest markets in which patents
covered by the Bayer agreement have been issued, expire in late 2014 through 2015, although they
are eligible for patent term extensions of up to five years.

PDE4 inhibitors 

We have two issued US patents, 19 pending patent applications in the US, four issued foreign
patents, and 166 pending foreign patent applications for both chemistries and research tools
relating to our PDE4 inhibitors, including MEM 1414 and MEM 1917. We have identified four different
classes of chemical compounds that act as PDE4 inhibitors. One issued patent and several pending
applications include claims relating to compounds as well as the methods of manufacturing and using
them. One issued US patent and several pending patent applications are drawn to research tools
relating to materials and methods useful for screening relating to PDE4.

17

Nicotinic alpha-7 agonists 

We have 11 pending US patent applications and 43 pending foreign patent applications for both
chemistries and research tools relating to our nicotinic alpha-7 partial agonists, including MEM
3454 and MEM 63908. Our patent applications relate to five classes of nicotinic alpha-7 partial
agonists as well as related research tools including genes and methods useful for screening.

PDE10 inhibitors 

We have 13 pending US patent applications and five pending foreign patent applications for both
chemistries and research tools relating to our PDE10 inhibitors. Our patent applications relate to
four classes of PDE10 inhibitors as well as related research tools including genes and methods
useful for screening.

General research tools 

We have three pending patent applications in the US and two pending foreign patent application
relating to our general research tools. These patent applications relate to research tools,
including methods and genes, which are applicable to different programs.

COMPETITION 

The development and commercialization of new drugs and drug delivery technologies is highly
competitive. We and/or our collaborators will face competition with respect to any of our products
developed or commercialized in the future from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty
pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. Many of our competitors possess
greater financial, managerial, scientific and technical resources and have longer operating
histories and established reputations for successfully developing and marketing drugs, all of which
put us at a competitive disadvantage. We face and will continue to face competition in the
discovery, in-licensing, development and commercialization of our drug candidates, which could
severely impact our ability to generate revenue or achieve significant market acceptance of our
drug candidates. Furthermore, new developments, including the development of other drugs,
technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, such as vaccines, occur in the
pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments may render our drug candidates or
technologies obsolete or non-competitive.

Therapies for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression
have been available for a number of years. However, many of the approved drugs for these diseases
appear to have limited efficacy in the overall patient population, can produce significant side
effects leading to poor tolerability and, in the case of Alzheimer s disease, may lose their
effectiveness over time.

There are currently five drugs approved for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease in the United
States (four are acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and one is an NMDA antagonist). None of these
drugs provides permanent remission or a cure. Aricept is the market leader with worldwide sales of
$1.7 billion in 2005. Our potential products would face competition from Aricept (Eisai / Pfizer)
and drugs from other companies such as Novartis, Johnson   Johnson, and Forest Labs.

There are a number of antipsychotic drugs that have been approved for use in the treatment of
schizophrenia, and in some cases, mania associated with bipolar disorder. While the atypical
antipsychotics have proven effective in schizophrenia and bipolar mania, many produce a variety of
adverse side effects, including weight gain that can lead to poor tolerability and low patient
compliance. Zyprexa (Eli Lilly) is the market leader with worldwide sales of $4.7 billion in 2005.
Our potential products for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder would compete with
products marketed by companies such as Eli Lilly, Johnson   Johnson, AstraZeneca, BMS and Pfizer.
Lithium and several other drugs, first developed as anti-epileptic medications by companies such as
Shire, Abbott and GlaxoSmithKline, have been approved for use as mood stabilizers in bipolar
disorder.

Antidepressants and mood stabilizers have combined worldwide sales of $19.8 billion in 2005. Our
potential products for the treatment of depression would compete with currently approved tricyclic
antidepressants, SSRI s and monoamine oxidase inhibitors from the major pharmaceutical companies.
None of these currently approved products has been shown to address the cognitive disorders
associated with depression.

We are aware that there are many drugs under development by both large pharmaceutical companies and
small biotechnology companies for Alzheimer s disease, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and
depression. Many of these entities have significant experience in preclinical testing, human
clinical trials, product manufacturing, marketing and distribution and the regulatory approval
process. Many companies also have substantially greater resources and are developing or using
technologies that may be competitive with our products and technologies.

We believe that our ability to successfully position ourselves within this competitive
environment will depend on, among other things:

efficacy, safety and reliability of our drug candidates; 

18

the speed at which we or our collaborators develop drug candidates; 

completion of clinical development and laboratory testing of our drug candidates; 

timing and scope of regulatory approval of our drug candidates; 

our or our collaborators  ability to manufacture and sell commercial quantities of approved products in the market; 

product acceptance by physicians and other health care providers; 

skills of our employees and our ability to recruit and retain skilled employees; 

protection of our intellectual property; and 

availability of capital resources to fund development and commercialization activities by us and our collaborators. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

Government authorities in the US and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things,
the research, development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, promotion, advertising, distribution,
marketing, and export and import of pharmaceutical products such as those we are developing. We
cannot assure you that any of our drug candidates will prove to be safe or effective, will receive
regulatory approvals or will be successfully commercialized.

US regulatory approval 

In the US, drugs and drug testing are regulated by the FDA, as well as state and local government
authorities. Before our products may be marketed in the US, we must comply with the Federal Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act, which generally involves the following:

preclinical laboratory and animal tests performed under the FDA s Good Laboratory
Practices regulations; 

submission and acceptance of an IND application, which must become effective before
clinical trials may begin in the US; 

adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and
efficacy of the drug candidate in our intended use; 

development of manufacturing processes which conform to FDA-mandated current Good
Manufacturing Practices (GMPs); and 

FDA review and approval of a New Drug Application (NDA) prior to any commercial sale
or shipment of a product. 

The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we
cannot be certain that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. In addition,
final regulatory approval and/or the speed of regulatory approval may depend on conditions and
events prevailing in the pharmaceutical industry that are outside our control.

Preclinical tests 

Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of the drug candidate, its chemistry, formulation
and stability, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety, toxicity and efficacy of
the drug candidate. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information,
analytical data and other available information about the drug candidate, are submitted to the FDA
as part of an IND. An IND is a request for FDA authorization to administer an investigational drug
to humans. Such authorization must be secured prior to interstate shipment and administration of
any new drug that is not the subject of an approved new drug application. Preclinical tests and
studies can take several years to complete, and despite completion of those tests and studies the
FDA may not permit clinical testing to begin.

19

The IND process 

The FDA requires a 30-day waiting period after the filing of each IND application before clinical
trials may begin. This waiting period is designed to allow the FDA to review the IND to determine
whether human research subjects will be exposed to unreasonable health risks. At any time during
this 30-day period or at any time thereafter, the FDA may raise concerns or questions about the
conduct of the trials as outlined in the IND and impose a clinical hold. In this case, the IND
sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can begin or
continue. The IND application process may become extremely costly and substantially delay
development of our drug candidates. Moreover, positive results of preclinical tests will not
necessarily indicate positive results in clinical trials.

Prior to initiation of clinical studies, an independent Institutional Review Board (IRB) at each
medical site proposing to conduct the clinical trials must review and approve each study protocol
and study subjects must provide informed consent.

Clinical trials 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap:

Phase 1: The drug candidate is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or
patients and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, distribution, excretion
and metabolism. 

Phase 2: The drug candidate is introduced into a limited patient population to: (1)
assess the efficacy of the drug in specific, targeted indications; (2) assess dosage
tolerance and optimal dosage; and (3) identify possible adverse effects and safety
risks. 

Phase 3: These are commonly referred to as pivotal studies. If a drug candidate is
found to have an acceptable safety profile and to be potentially effective in Phase 2
trials, new clinical trials will be initiated to further demonstrate clinical efficacy,
optimal dosage and safety within an expanded and diverse patient population at
geographically dispersed clinical study sites. 

We cannot be certain that we will successfully complete Phase 1, Phase 2 or Phase 3 testing of our
drug candidates within any specific time period, if at all. Clinical testing must meet
requirements for IRB oversight, informed consent and good clinical practices. The FDA, and the IRB
at each institution at which a clinical trial is being performed, may suspend a clinical trial at
any time for various reasons, including a belief that the subjects are being exposed to an
unacceptable health risk.

The NDA process 

If clinical trials are successful, the next step in the drug regulatory approval process is the
preparation and submission to the FDA of an NDA. The NDA is the vehicle through which drug sponsors
formally propose that the FDA approve a new pharmaceutical for marketing and sale in the US. The
NDA must contain a description of the manufacturing process and quality control methods, as well as
results of preclinical tests, toxicology studies, clinical trials and proposed labeling, among
other things. A substantial user fee must also be paid with the NDA, unless an exemption applies.
Every new drug must be the subject of an approved NDA before US commercialization begins.

Upon submission of the NDA, the FDA will make a threshold determination of whether the application
is sufficiently complete to permit review, and if not will issue a refuse to file letter. If the
application is accepted for filing, the FDA will attempt to review and take action on the
application in accordance with performance goal commitments the FDA has made in connection with the
user fee law. These timing commitments will vary depending on whether an NDA is for a priority drug
or not, and in any event are not a guarantee that an application will be approved or even acted
upon by any specific deadline. The review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests
for additional information or clarification. The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee for
review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved, but the FDA
is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee. The FDA may deny or delay approval of
applications that do not meet applicable regulatory criteria or if the FDA determines that the
clinical data do not adequately establish the safety and efficacy of the drug. In addition, the FDA
may approve a drug candidate subject to the completion of post-marketing studies, referred to as
Phase 4 trials, to monitor the effect of the approved product. The FDA may also grant approval
with restrictive product labeling, or may impose other restrictions on marketing or distribution
such as the adoption of a special risk management plan. The FDA has broad post-market regulatory
and enforcement powers, including the ability to levy fines and civil penalties, suspend or delay
issuance of approvals, seize or recall products, and withdraw approvals.

20

Manufacturing and post-marketing requirements 

If approved, a drug may only be marketed in the dosage forms and for the indications approved in
the NDA. Special requirements also apply to any drug samples that are distributed in accordance
with the Prescription Drug Marketing Act. The manufacturers of approved products and their
manufacturing facilities will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA
and other authorities where applicable, and must comply with ongoing requirements, including the
FDA s GMP requirements. Once the FDA approves a product, a manufacturer must provide certain
updated safety and efficacy information, submit copies of promotional materials to the FDA
periodically, and make certain other required reports. Product and labeling changes, as well as
certain changes in a manufacturing process or facility or other post-approval changes, may
necessitate additional FDA review and approval. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory
requirements subjects the manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as warning
letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, voluntary recall of a product, injunctive
action or possible civil penalties. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with
regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the
product occur following approval. Because we intend to contract with third parties for the
manufacturing of our products, our ability to control third-party compliance with FDA requirements
will be limited to contractual remedies and rights of inspection. Failure of third-party
manufacturers to comply with GMP or other FDA requirements applicable to our products may subject
us to fines and could result in, among other things, total or partial suspension of production,
failure of the government to grant approval for marketing, and withdrawal or suspension of
marketing approvals.

The FDA s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted which could
prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates. Moreover, increased attention to the
containment of health care costs in the US and in foreign markets could result in new government
regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict the
likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future
legislative or administrative action, either in the US or abroad.

We are also subject to various laws and regulations regarding laboratory practices, the
experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous
substances in connection with our research.

Foreign regulatory approval 

We will have to complete approval processes, similar or related to the US approval processes, in
virtually every foreign target market for our products in order to conduct clinical or preclinical
research and to commercialize our drug candidates in those countries. The approval procedures and
the time required for approvals vary from country to country and may involve additional testing.
Foreign approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, regulatory approval
of prices is required in most countries other than the US. We face the risk that the resulting
prices would be insufficient to generate an acceptable return to us or our collaborators.

In common with the US, the various phases of preclinical and clinical research are subject to
significant regulatory controls within the European Union. Variations in the national regimes
exist. However, most jurisdictions require regulatory and IRB approval of interventional clinical
trials. Most European regulators also require the submission of adverse event reports during a
study and a copy of the final study report.

Under European Union regulatory systems, marketing authorizations may be submitted either under a
centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure is currently mandatory for
products developed by means of a biotechnological process and optional for new active substances
and other  innovative medicinal products with novel characteristics.  It provides for the grant of
a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The
decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of national approval decisions. Under this
procedure, the holder of a national marketing authorization may submit applications in other
European Union member states, requesting them to mutually recognize the marketing authorization
already granted. Within 90 days of receiving the applications and assessment report, each member
state must decide whether to recognize the existing approval.

Where possible, we plan to choose the appropriate route of European regulatory filing in an attempt
to accomplish the most rapid regulatory approvals. However, the chosen regulatory strategy may not
secure regulatory approvals or approvals of the chosen product indications. In addition, these
approvals, if obtained, may take longer than anticipated.

Other regulatory matters 

In the US, our research, manufacturing, distribution, sales, promotion, and other activities
following any product approval are subject to regulation by regulatory authorities in addition to
the FDA, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice, the Centers for
Medicare   Medicaid Services, other divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services, and
state and local governments. Among other laws and requirements, our sales, marketing and
scientific/educational programs will need to comply with

21

the anti-kickback provisions of the Social Security Act, the False Claims Act, the privacy
provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, and similar state
laws, each as amended. Our pricing and rebate programs will need to comply with pricing and
reimbursement rules, including the Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1990, and the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, each as amended. If products
are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services
Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of our activities are potentially
subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. Finally, certain
jurisdictions have other trade regulations from time to time to which our business is subject to,
such as, technology or environmental export controls and political trade embargoes.

We are also subject to federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working
conditions, manufacturing and laboratory practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control,
disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We may incur significant costs to comply
with such laws and regulations now or in the future.

Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet these applicable regulatory requirements can result
in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, private  qui tam  actions brought
by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government, or refusal to allow us to enter into
supply contracts, including government contracts.

MANUFACTURING 

In general, our strategy is to produce small quantities (up to gram quantities) of our compounds
for preclinical testing and to contract with third parties for manufacturing of larger quantities.
All of our compounds are small molecules, generally require no special manufacturing processes and
use relatively accessible raw materials. Due to their relative ease of manufacture, we can choose
among several suppliers. We currently outsource the production of MEM 1003 and MEM 3454 to third
parties. Under the Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement, we are responsible for the clinical
supply of MEM 3454, through Phase 2a or beyond if Roche does not exercise its option to license MEM
3454, and MEM 63908, through Phase 1. We will outsource the production of MEM 63908 to a third
party. We are also responsible for the production of the clinical supply of MEM 1414 and MEM 1917,
and should we require quantities above those already produced by Roche, we would outsource
production to a third party. Under the 2005 Amgen Agreement, Amgen is responsible for supplying
all PDE10 inhibitor compounds for preclinical and clinical testing.

EMPLOYEES 

As of March 15, 2006, we had 62 full-time employees. Of our workforce, 50 employees are engaged in
research and development and 12 are engaged in business development, finance and administration.
None of our employees is represented by labor unions or covered by collective bargaining
agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our employee relations to be
good.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES 

Our research and development expenses were $33.7 million in 2005, $27.0 million in 2004, and $22.6
million in 2003.

CORPORATE INFORMATION 

We were incorporated on March 19, 1997 in the state of Delaware. Our website address is
www.memorypharma.com.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website (www.memorypharma.com under the  Investors   SEC
Filings  captions) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

22

Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the
risks and uncertainties described below and the other information contained in this report. If any
of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, prospects, financial
condition and operating results would likely suffer, possibly materially. In that event, the
market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. 

Risks Relating to our Business  

We
expect to continue to incur substantial losses, and we may never
achieve profitability. 

We began operations in 1998 and have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our
current business and our prospects. We have incurred substantial and increasing operating losses
in each year since inception, and we may never achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2005, we
had an accumulated deficit of approximately $152.1 million, of which $19.5 million related to
preferred stock dividends that were forfeited upon the conversion of our redeemable convertible
preferred stock on April 8, 2004, the closing date of our initial public offering. We expect to
incur substantial net losses for the foreseeable future as we significantly expand our clinical
trial activity, increase the number of our development programs, and potentially in-license and
acquire technologies. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenue or obtain external
financing to pay these costs. Moreover, these losses have had, and are expected to continue to
have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and stockholders  equity.

All of our revenue to date has been derived from license fees, milestone payments and research and
development funding under our collaboration agreements with third parties. Substantially all of
the potential revenue under these agreements depends on our reaching specified milestones or
achieving product sales, neither of which is within our control. We cannot assure you that any
external financing we seek will be available on favorable terms, if at all. We have not completed
the development of any drugs, and we do not expect that any drugs resulting from our or our
collaborators  research and development efforts will be commercially available for a significant
number of years, if at all. We do not know whether or when we will become profitable because of
the significant uncertainties with respect to our ability to generate revenue from the sale of
products based on our drug candidates.

We will need additional financing, which may be difficult to obtain. Our failure to obtain
necessary financing would adversely affect our development programs and other operations. 

Based on our current business plan, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents,
marketable securities, payments for research and development services and other payments required
to be made by our collaboration partners should be sufficient to fund our anticipated levels of
operations through the first quarter of 2007. We will, therefore, need to raise additional equity
or other financing to finance our future requirements. We may not be able to obtain additional
financing on acceptable terms or at all.

If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis or to enter into agreements with
collaboration partners, we will have to reduce or delay our efforts with respect to certain of our
drug development candidates and our exploratory research programs. We are funding or contemplating
funding the development of several of our drug candidates and programs. Our most significant
commitment currently is to MEM 1003, for which we are funding a multi-center Phase 2a AD clinical
trial.

Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:

the number of compounds and drug candidates that we advance through the development process; 

the funding from our collaborations with Roche and Amgen; 

whether we are able to enter into a collaboration with regard to MEM 1003 and the terms of any such collaboration; 

the scope and results of our and our collaborators  clinical trials; 

the costs involved in utilizing third party contract research organizations for preclinical studies and clinical trials; 

the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals; 

the availability of third parties, and the cost, to manufacture compounds for clinical trial supply; 

the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing
patent claims and other patent-related costs, including litigation costs and the results
of such litigation; and 

the cost of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and
distribution. 

In addition, if we are not able to obtain adequate equity or other financing to fund the
development of our drug candidates and programs, we may have to obtain capital through arrangements
with collaborators that require us to relinquish greater rights to our technologies or drug
candidates than we might otherwise have done.

23

Failure to raise adequate capital in a timely manner would have a material adverse effect on our
business, operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. If we raise
additional capital by issuing equity securities, our then existing stockholders will experience
significant dilution.

Our drug candidates and programs are novel and in the early stages of development. As a result, it
is difficult to predict accurately if and when we will achieve the development goals we establish
for these drug candidates and programs. 

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of novel drug
candidates based on our understanding of the role played by certain biological targets in memory
formation and cognition. Our current drug candidates are at an early stage of development
including MEM 1003, our most clinically advanced drug candidate. Our drug candidates will require
significant additional development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory clearances
and additional investment by us or our collaborators before they can be commercialized. From time
to time, we may establish and announce certain development goals for our drug candidates and
programs; however, given the complex nature of the drug discovery and development process, it is
difficult to predict accurately if and when we will achieve these goals. For example, while we have
announced that we currently anticipate commencing the Phase 2a clinical trial of MEM 3454 in the
first half of 2006, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve this development goal on
the time schedule that we have planned.

Our drug discovery and development methods are unproven and may not lead to commercially viable
drugs for any of several reasons. For example, we may fail to identify appropriate targets or
compounds, our drug candidates may fail to be safe and effective in preclinical and clinical
trials, or we may have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue discovery and development
efforts for new drug candidates. In addition, because we have limited resources, we are focusing on
targets, compounds and indications that we believe are the most promising. As a result, we may
forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with other targets, compounds and indications.

The diseases we are targeting are poorly understood, which increases our chances of failure. 

Our drug development programs target a broad range of CNS conditions, many of which exhibit
significant impairment of memory and other cognitive functions. These conditions include
neurological diseases associated with aging, such as Alzheimer s, and also include certain
psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression. These diseases and
their causes are poorly understood. There are no approved drugs that treat these diseases through
the mechanisms used by our drug candidates, and there is only a limited scientific understanding of
the relationships between these diseases and the neurological pathways targeted by our drug
candidates. These uncertainties increase the risk that one or more of our drug development
programs may fail.

Our preclinical and clinical testing results may not be predictive of future trial results and may
not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of future clinical trials. If subsequent study or
trial results are unfavorable or insufficient, we may be forced to stop developing drug candidates
that we currently believe are important to our future. 

The results of preclinical studies and early stage clinical trials of our drug candidates are not
necessarily predictive of the results of subsequent preclinical studies or later stage clinical
trials. Our approach to drug development involves rigorous preclinical testing with a variety of in
vitro assays and animal models in order to obtain early indications of safety and efficacy. We have
invested in and continue to invest substantial resources in this capability. However, our drug
candidates are at an early stage of development and only one drug candidate has progressed into a
Phase 2a clinical trial. As a result, we cannot determine whether our preclinical testing
methodologies are predictive of clinical safety or efficacy. In addition, early stage clinical
trials may not be predictive of future trial results. For example, while the preliminary cognitive
data from the multiple ascending dose study of MEM 3454 demonstrated a statistically significant
positive effect on one of the primary efficacy variables of that study at a certain dose level, we
cannot assure you that future clinical trials of MEM 3454 will demonstrate similar results. Furthermore, we
cannot assure you that the data collected from the preclinical studies and clinical trials of our
drug candidates will be sufficient to support regulatory approval of our future clinical trials by
the FDA or by similar agencies in other countries.

As we or our collaborators obtain results from further preclinical or clinical trials, we or our
collaborators may elect to discontinue or delay preclinical studies or clinical trials for certain
products in order to focus our resources on more promising products. We or our collaborators may
also change the indication being pursued for a particular drug candidate or otherwise revise the
development plan for that compound. For each of our programs being developed under a collaboration
agreement, we develop multiple drug candidates for the same class of compounds and for the same
indication. Over the course of preclinical studies, these candidates may not prove to be
sufficiently different to warrant pursuing them individually for the same indication, or at all.
Moreover, drug candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety
and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical or initial clinical testing.

If our clinical trials or those of our collaborators are unsuccessful, or if we experience
significant delays in these trials, our ability to commercialize our products will be impaired. 

Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our drug candidates, they must be subjected to
extensive clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. The clinical trials
of any drug candidates that we develop must comply with regulation by numerous federal, state and
local government authorities in the US, principally the FDA, and by similar agencies in other
countries. The requirements that clinical trials must meet include IRB, or ethics committee
oversight, informed consent and good clinical practices. Securing FDA approval requires the
submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information for each
therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate s safety and efficacy. In order for us or
our collaborators to conduct human clinical trials in the US for our drug candidates, we or they
must obtain and maintain an effective IND. While we have obtained an IND for MEM 1003 in
Alzheimer s disease, we cannot assure you that we or our collaborators will be successful in
obtaining an IND for any other drug candidate. In connection with obtaining and maintaining an
IND, we or our collaborators may be required to provide the FDA with supplementary information
regarding our preclinical testing of these drug candidates and the clinical trials conducted in
foreign countries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfactorily address any
concerns the FDA may have. If we are unable to satisfy the FDA with respect to a certain drug
candidate, we may be prevented from proceeding with the development of that drug candidate in the
US.

In October 2005 we completed a Phase 1b safety and tolerability study of MEM 1003 in Alzheimer s
patients. In that trial, MEM 1003 was found to be safe and generally well-tolerated. In November
2005, following our submission to the FDA of certain preclinical toxicology data and the results of
the Phase 1b safety and tolerability study, we commenced a Phase 2a AD clinical trial for MEM 1003.
We cannot assure you that the additional studies and clinical trials that we conduct will support
our earlier results for MEM 1003. From time to time during the clinical development of a drug
candidate, we will be required to provide the FDA with supplementary preclinical data to support
proceeding with later stage clinical trials. If we are unable to satisfy the FDA with the results
of the studies we have conducted, are currently conducting or plan to conduct with respect to MEM
1003, we may face delays in completing the Phase 2a AD clinical trial or future clinical trials for
MEM 1003 in the US, or we could be prevented from proceeding with MEM 1003 in the US.

24

It takes years to complete the testing of a product, and failure can occur at any stage of testing.
For example, our testing may be delayed or halted due to any of the following:

any preclinical test or clinical trial may fail to produce safety and efficacy
results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; 

preclinical and clinical data could be interpreted in different ways, which could
delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; 

negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical test or clinical study or adverse
medical events during a clinical trial could cause delays in the completion of the
preclinical test or clinical study, or could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial
to be repeated, additional tests to be conducted or a program to be terminated, even if
other studies or trials relating to the program are successful; 

the FDA or foreign regulatory authority could impose conditions on the scope or
design of a clinical trial; 

the FDA or foreign regulatory authority could place a clinical hold on a trial if,
among other reasons, it requires further information regarding certain results or events
during preclinical tests or clinical trials, or it finds that patients enrolled in the
trial are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or
injury; 

the FDA or foreign regulatory authority might not approve the manufacturing processes
or facilities that we utilize, or the processes or facilities of our collaborators; 

we may encounter delays in obtaining IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a
prospective study site or in revising a clinical trial protocol after the clinical trial
has commenced; 

any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to
restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially
viable; 

we or our collaborators may encounter delays based on changes in regulatory agency
policies during the period in which we develop a drug or the period required for review
of any application for regulatory agency approval; 

our clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our compounds or
result in marketable products; and 

we or our collaborators may encounter delays in obtaining a sufficient supply of a
drug candidate for use in our clinical trials either due to the amount of time required
to manufacture a sufficient supply for larger clinical trials or as a result of
manufacturing or quality assurance issues. 

In addition, we or our collaborators may encounter delays based on our inability to enroll or
retain a sufficient number of healthy volunteers or patients to complete our clinical trials. This
could affect both our ability to complete a clinical trial in the time frame we have planned and
its validity or statistical significance. Enrollment depends on many factors, including: the size
of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of volunteers/patients
to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study and whether recruitment from the same
patient population is ongoing for clinical trials by other companies. Enrollment has become
particularly challenging for clinical trials that involve patients with Alzheimer s disease. Over
the course of the Phase 2a AD clinical trial for MEM 1003 that we commenced in November 2005, we
anticipate dosing up to approximately 180 patients with Alzheimer s disease at multiple centers
across the US. However, as with our Phase 1b safety and tolerability study for MEM 1003, we are
experiencing slower than anticipated enrollment in the Phase 2a AD clinical trial. As a result,
while we still expect to complete this Phase 2a AD clinical trial in the first half of 2007, we
will not be able to achieve this goal unless the rate of patient enrollment significantly increases
during this time frame. We are currently exploring alternatives for increasing the enrollment rate
in the Phase 2a AD clinical trial. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving
and maintaining a level of patient enrollment sufficient to complete the Phase 2a AD clinical trial
on the time schedule that we have planned. Delays in planned patient enrollment for a clinical
study result in increased costs, program delays or both, which could have a harmful effect on our
ability to develop products.

We cannot assure you that our clinical trials will commence, proceed or be completed on schedule.
For example, we currently anticipate commencing the Phase 2a bipolar disorder clinical trial for
MEM 1003 during the first half of 2006 and completing this trial by the end of 2006. However, we
cannot assure you that we will be successful in commencing and completing this clinical trial in
the time frame that we have planned. Delays in our clinical trials or rejection of data from a
clinical trial will result in increased development costs and could have a material adverse effect
on the development of our drug candidates.

We may not be able to succeed in our business model of seeking to enter into collaborations at
early stages of development. We currently do not have a collaboration partner for MEM 1003, our
most clinically advanced drug candidate. 

Our current strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing our drug candidates includes
securing collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies relatively early in the
drug development process and for these collaborators to undertake some or all of the clinical
development and commercialization of our drug candidates. Although we have entered into three
collaborations to date, each for a program still in the preclinical stage of development, it may be
difficult for us to find third parties that are willing to enter into collaborations for our other development programs or programs at an
early stage. If we are not able to enter into additional collaborations, we could be required to
undertake and fund further development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing activities for
these programs, at our own expense. If we do enter into other collaborations or arrangements for
our other programs, we may not accurately assess the commercial potential or target market for a
program and may relinquish valuable rights to that program.

We have funded our MEM 1003 program on our own and, as part of that program, are currently funding
a multi-center Phase 2a AD clinical trial for MEM 1003, while continuing to explore the potential
for a collaboration for this drug candidate. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in
entering into a collaboration for MEM 1003 on favorable terms, if at all. If, following the
completion of the Phase 2a AD clinical trial, we have been unable to find a collaboration partner
for MEM 1003, we may at that time choose to continue the development of MEM 1003 at our own
expense. If we do so, our requirements for capital will substantially increase. Such capital might
not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Alternatively, we would have to delay,
substantially reduce or cease our efforts on certain of our drug candidates and/or our development
or exploratory programs.

25

We are dependent upon our collaboration partners to conduct clinical trials and to manufacture,
market and sell our products. 

Based on our strategy of securing collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies
that would undertake later-stage clinical development and commercialization of our products, we
have entered into three collaborations to date, two with Roche and one with Amgen. These
collaborations are for compounds representing three of our four development programs. We do not
have day-to-day control over the activities of our collaboration partners, and we are unlikely to
control the activities of any other collaborators with which we enter into agreements. Roche and
Amgen have, and any other collaborators will have, significant discretion in determining the
efforts and amount of resources that they dedicate to our collaborations. In addition, either Roche
or Amgen or any other future collaboration partner may adhere to criteria for determining whether
to proceed with clinical development of a particular compound that leads them to terminate a
clinical development program under circumstances where we might have continued such a program. For
example, in April 2005, Roche decided not to pursue further clinical development of the two named
PDE4 inhibitor drug candidates that were being developed under the 2002 Roche Agreement, MEM 1414
and its back-up candidate, MEM 1917. In August 2005, we reacquired the rights to MEM 1414 and MEM
1917 from Roche and are currently exploring the potential for a new collaboration for these drug
candidates. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in securing a new collaboration
partner for these drug candidates or that we will continue their development on our own. In
addition, we cannot assure you that Roche will choose to pursue the clinical development of any
other PDE4 inhibitor compounds that have been identified through our collaboration under the 2002
Roche Agreement.

Our ability to generate milestone payments and royalties from our collaborators depends on our
collaborators  ability to establish the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, obtain
regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of products developed from our drug candidates.
In addition to testing and seeking regulatory approval, we are dependent on our collaborators for
the manufacturing of clinical scale quantities of some of our drug candidates and would be
dependent on them in the future for commercial scale manufacturing, distribution and direct sales.
Our collaborators may not be successful in manufacturing our drug candidates on a commercial scale
or in successfully commercializing them.

Under our collaboration agreements, our collaboration partners  termination rights include the
ability to terminate the collaboration with us at any time, with or without cause, on relatively
short notice. Future collaboration partners, if any, are also likely to have the right to
terminate the collaboration on relatively short notice. In addition, under our Amended and Restated
2003 Roche Agreement, Roche has the right to obtain an exclusive license for MEM 3454 following the
completion of Phase 2a clinical trials by making payments to us upon our achievement of certain
developmental milestones. If Roche does not exercise its option to an exclusive license to MEM
3454 or if after acquiring the license Roche terminates development of MEM 3454 before it is
commercialized, we would not receive further milestone payments or be eligible for royalties with
respect to MEM 3454. Our 2005 Amgen Agreement provides that upon the occurrence of certain events,
including a change of control (which, under certain circumstances, could be triggered by a sale of
20% of our shares), certain rights and obligations under that agreement terminate (subject to
reinstatement in certain cases), including our right to participate in the collaboration and
Amgen s obligations to fund our research and development and to use commercially reasonable efforts
to develop and commercialize PDE10 inhibitors. If Roche, Amgen or any future collaborator
terminates its collaboration with us or fails to perform or satisfy its obligations to us, the
development or commercialization of our drug candidates being developed under those collaborations
would be significantly delayed or halted and our ability to realize milestone payments and royalty
revenue would be adversely affected.

Our collaborations are subject to many risks, which could prevent us from developing and
commercializing our drug candidates. 

We are dependent on our collaboration partners for drug development and commercialization. Our
existing collaborations and any future collaboration may not be scientifically or commercially
successful. In addition, any collaboration partner may be unwilling or unable to fulfill its
obligations to us, including its development and commercialization responsibilities in respect of
our drug candidates. Additional risks that we face in connection with our collaborations include
the following:

our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others,
products and services that are similar to or competitive with the products that are the
subject of the collaboration with us; 

collaborators may underfund or not commit sufficient resources to the testing,
marketing, distribution or other development of our products; 

our collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property
rights or they may utilize our proprietary information in such a way as to invite
litigation that could jeopardize or potentially invalidate our proprietary information
or expose us to potential liability; 

our collaborators may encounter conflicts of interest, changes in business strategy
or other business issues which could adversely affect their willingness or ability to
fulfill their obligations to us (for example, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies
historically have re-evaluated their priorities following mergers and consolidations,
which have been common in recent years in these industries); and 

disputes may arise between us and our collaborators delaying or terminating the
research, development or commercialization of our drug candidates, resulting in
significant litigation or arbitration that could be time-consuming and expensive, or
causing our collaborators to act in their own self-interest and not in the interest of
our stockholders. 

26

Collaborations with pharmaceutical companies and other third parties often are terminated or
allowed to expire. The termination of any collaboration that we enter into could adversely affect
the future prospects of drug candidates being developed under that collaboration and our ability to
commercialize those drug candidates. Any termination or expiration of a collaboration would
adversely affect us financially and could harm our business reputation. In such event, we might be
required to devote additional resources to a development program or a drug candidate, seek a new
collaborator, or abandon the development of a drug candidate, or an entire development program, any
of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

In addition to our collaborations, we are dependent on certain license relationships. 

We have in-licensed technology that is important to our business, and we may enter into additional
licenses in the future. For example, we hold a license from Bayer for intellectual property
relating to MEM 1003. Our license from Bayer imposes on us development and commercialization
obligations, milestone and royalty payment obligations and other obligations. Other licenses to
which we are a party contain, and we expect that any future in-licenses will contain, similar
provisions. If we fail to comply with these obligations to Bayer or to any other licensor, the
licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to
commercialize drug candidates or technologies that were covered by the license. Also, the milestone
and other payments associated with these licenses could make it less profitable for us to develop
drug candidates utilizing these drug candidates and technologies.

In the event that our license agreements are terminated, we may not be able to obtain licenses for
alternative drug candidates or technologies on terms favorable to us, if at all. If any of our
licensors terminates or breaches its agreement with us, such termination or breach could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

We face intense competition in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. 

The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive. There are a number of
companies that focus on the CNS disease markets that we are addressing. We face competition from
major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies
worldwide. Additionally, various large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and
public agencies are developing and using technologies to address the treatment of cognitive
disorders. Many of our competitors possess greater financial, managerial, scientific and technical
resources than we do and have significantly more experience in preclinical testing, human clinical
trials, product manufacturing, the regulatory approval process and marketing and distribution than
we do, all of which put us at a competitive disadvantage. We face and will continue to face
competition in the discovery, in-licensing, development and commercialization of our drug
candidates, which could severely impact our ability to generate revenue or achieve significant
market acceptance of our drug candidates. Furthermore, new developments, including the development
of other drugs and technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, such as
vaccines, occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments could render our
drug candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We are aware that there are a number of drugs under
development by both large pharmaceutical companies and small biotechnology companies for additional
treatments of Alzheimer s, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression.

We depend on our key scientific and other key personnel and have recently experienced turnover in
our key senior management. If we are not able to retain our key scientific and other key personnel
or recruit additional scientific and technical personnel, our business will suffer. 

Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key
scientific and technical personnel, particularly James R. Sulat, our President and Chief Executive
Officer and Dr. David A. Lowe, our Chief Scientific Officer. Our employment agreements with these
executive officers are terminable by us or the executive without notice. The loss of the services
of one or more of our key employees or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel
could have an adverse impact on our business and prospects. We do not carry key man life insurance
on any of our key personnel.

27

We have experienced turnover in our senior management and we have also added new members to our
senior management team. If we continue to experience turnover of senior management, our business,
our stock price and investor confidence in us may be adversely affected.

In addition, we face competition for research scientists and technical staff from other companies,
academic institutions, government entities, nonprofit laboratories and other organizations. To
pursue our product development plans, we will need to hire additional management personnel and
additional qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development. If we cannot
continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the
continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our operations or grow.

If third-party contract research organizations do not perform in an acceptable and timely manner,
our preclinical testing or clinical trials could be delayed or unsuccessful. 

We do not have the ability to conduct our preclinical testing or clinical trials independently and
have limited experience in conducting clinical trials. In addition to our collaborators, we rely
and will continue to rely on preclinical and clinical investigators, third-party contract research
organizations and consultants to perform some or all of the functions associated with preclinical
testing or clinical trials. From time to time, preclinical and clinical investigators, third-party
contract research organizations and consultants have not performed in a manner that we believed was
acceptable or timely. In each case we have discussed and resolved these issues with the vendor, and
none of these issues have led to a material delay or other material adverse effect on our
preclinical testing or clinical trials. However, the failure of any vendor to perform in an
acceptable and timely manner in the future, including in accordance with any applicable regulatory
requirements or preclinical testing or clinical trial protocol, could cause a delay or other
material adverse effect on our preclinical testing, clinical trials and ultimately on the timely
advancement of our development programs.

If we or our collaborators cannot locate acceptable contractors to run a portion of our or our
collaborators  preclinical testing or clinical trials or enter into favorable agreements with them,
or if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, satisfy FDA and
other US and foreign legal and regulatory requirements for the conduct of preclinical testing and
clinical trials or meet expected deadlines, our preclinical or clinical development programs and
those of our collaborators could be delayed and otherwise adversely affected.

If we or our collaborators fail to obtain regulatory clearance for our current or future drug
candidates, we will be unable to market and sell any products and therefore may never be able to
generate product revenue or be profitable. 

We or our collaborators will be required to obtain from the FDA and to maintain an effective IND to
conduct human clinical trials in the US and must obtain and maintain regulatory approval for
commercial distribution. This process is expensive, uncertain and takes many years. In order to
obtain regulatory clearance to conduct clinical trials in the US and eventually obtain approval in
the US, we or our collaborators must provide the FDA with data sufficient to demonstrate the safety
and efficacy of each drug candidate. None of our drug candidates is currently approved for sale by
the FDA or by any other regulatory agency in the world, and our drug candidates may never be
approved for sale or become commercially viable. If we, either alone or with collaborators, are
unable to successfully complete clinical trials of any of our current or future drug candidates, or
if the results of these trials are not positive or are only modestly positive, we or our
collaborators may not be able to obtain marketing approval for any drugs or may obtain approval for
indications that are not as broad as we wanted. If this occurs, our business will be materially
harmed, our ability to generate revenue will be severely impaired and our stock price may decline.

In addition, during the clinical development of our drug candidates, the policies of the FDA may
change and additional regulations may be enacted which could prevent or delay regulatory approval
of our drug candidates. Moreover, increased attention to the containment of health care costs in
the US and in foreign markets could result in new government regulations that could have a material
adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse
governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either
in the US or abroad.

Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our
products abroad. 

We intend to have our products marketed outside the US. In order to market our products in the
European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we or our collaborators must obtain separate
regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval
procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain
approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval
process entails all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We and our collaborators
may fail to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA
does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign

28

regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries
or by the FDA. We and our collaborators may not be able to file for, and may not receive, necessary
regulatory approvals to commercialize our products in any market. If we or our collaborators fail
to obtain these approvals, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be
materially and adversely affected.

Our potential products may not be commercially viable if we or our collaborators fail to obtain an
adequate level of reimbursement for these products by Medicare and other third-party payors or if
the pricing for these products is set at unsatisfactory levels by foreign countries. 

Our commercial success will depend in part on third-party payors such as government health
administration authorities, including Medicare, private health insurers and other organizations
agreeing to reimburse patients for the costs of our products. Significant uncertainty exists as to
the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Because most persons suffering
from Alzheimer s disease are elderly, we expect that coverage for any products that we and our
collaborators successfully develop to treat Alzheimer s disease in the US will be provided
primarily through the Medicare program. Our business would be materially adversely affected if the
Medicare program were to determine that our drugs are  not reasonable and necessary  and deny
reimbursement of our or our collaborators  prospective products. Our business could also be
adversely affected if the Medicare program or other reimbursing bodies or payors limit the
indications for which our or our collaborators  prospective products will be reimbursed to a
smaller set of indications than we believe is appropriate.

In some foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of
prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing
negotiations with governmental authorities can take 6 to 12 months or longer after the receipt of
regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some
countries, we or our collaborators may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the
cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. If reimbursement for our products
in foreign countries is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at
unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed.

If physicians and patients do not accept our product candidates, we may be unable to generate
significant revenue. 

Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, they still may not gain market acceptance
among physicians, patients and the medical community, which would limit our ability to generate
revenue and would adversely affect our results of operations. Physicians will not recommend
products developed by us or our collaborators until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the
safety and efficacy of our products as compared to other available treatments. In addition,
competitors may be more effective in marketing their drugs. Even if the clinical safety and
efficacy of products developed from our drug candidates is established, physicians may elect not to
recommend these products for a variety of factors, including the reimbursement policies of
government and third-party payors.

We have no manufacturing capacity and depend on third parties to supply us with the compounds under
development, to develop effective formulations and to manufacture our products. 

We have no manufacturing experience, and we currently lack the resources and capability to develop
formulations and manufacture any of our drug candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. We do
not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our drug
candidates under development, and we do not currently intend to do so in the foreseeable future. As
a result, we are dependent on third parties, including our collaboration partners, for the
formulation and manufacture of clinical and commercial scale quantities of our drug candidates. If
we or our collaborators are unable to secure an adequate supply of our compounds under development,
or if the third parties we contract with are unable to develop effective formulations or to timely
manufacture our drug candidates for our clinical trials in accordance with our specifications and
timely deliver the drug candidates to the appropriate clinical trial sites, we may encounter delays
in our clinical trials. Although we believe that there are an adequate number of suppliers for
compounds such as ours, we could experience a shortage of suppliers, or an interruption in supply
if a supplier relationship were terminated, that could have an adverse effect on our or our
collaborators  ability to supply products. In addition, in the event of a natural disaster,
equipment failure, power failure, strike or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace our
third-party manufacturers in a timely manner.

Manufacturing of our products must meet applicable regulatory standards. 

We, our collaborators and our third-party manufacturers are required to adhere to federal current
GMP requirements. Under these requirements, our drug candidates must be manufactured and our
records maintained in a prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing, quality control
and other activities. Furthermore, the manufacturing facilities used by us or our collaborators

29

must pass a pre-approval inspection by the FDA and foreign authorities before obtaining marketing
approval, and will be subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding foreign
regulatory authorities. These inspections may result in compliance issues that could prevent or
delay marketing approval, result in interruption or shortage of clinical or commercial product or
require the expenditure of money or other resources to correct. We cannot control these
manufacturing facilities  compliance with FDA requirements and may be limited to certain
contractual remedies and rights of inspection. If these manufacturing facilities fail to comply
with applicable regulatory requirements, we may not be granted approval for marketing, and we
could, among other things, be subject to fines, total or partial suspension of production,
withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions
and criminal prosecution.

We face the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain insurance. 

Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the development
of drugs. If the use of one or more of our or our collaborators  drugs harms people, we may be
subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by clinical trial
participants, consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our
products. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials up to an aggregate of
$10.0 million annually, with a deductible of $25,000 per claim. We believe that this coverage is
consistent with industry practice, but we cannot predict all of the possible harms or side effects
that may result and, therefore, the amount of insurance coverage we currently hold may not be
adequate to cover all liabilities we might incur. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to
include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our drug candidates in
development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for
any products approved for marketing. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or
otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant
liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. If we
are sued for any injury allegedly caused by our or our collaborators  products, our liability could
exceed our total assets and our ability to pay the liability. A successful product liability claim
or series of claims brought against us would decrease our cash and could cause our stock price to
fall.

Our or our collaborators  products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market.
We or they may be subject to penalties if we or they fail to comply with post-approval regulatory
requirements or experience unanticipated problems with any approved products. 

If we or our collaborators obtain marketing approval for a product, that product, along with the
associated manufacturing processes, any post-approval clinical data and the advertising and
promotional activities for the product will be subject to continual regulatory requirements, review
and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Even if regulatory approval of a
product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the
product may be marketed or to other restrictive conditions of approval. Furthermore, any approval
may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety
or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products,
supplier processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in:

product recalls; 

revocation of previously granted approvals; 

the need to conduct additional clinical trials; and 

fines and other censures. 

We or our collaborators may be slow to adapt, or we or they may not be able to adapt, to changes in
existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies.

Our business activities require compliance with environmental laws. If we violate these laws, we
could be subject to significant fines, liabilities or other adverse consequences. 

Our research and development programs involve the controlled use of hazardous materials.
Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state and local laws governing the use, handling and
disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and
disposing of these materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by state
and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or
injury from these materials. In addition, our collaborators may not comply with these laws. In the
event of such an accident or failure to comply with environmental laws, we could be held liable for
damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our assets and resources.

30

Risks
Relating to Intellectual Property  

If we are unable to obtain intellectual property protection for our chemical compounds and research
tools, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected. 

Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection
for our drug candidates, technology and know-how. Our policy is to seek to protect our chemical
compounds and technologies by, among other methods, filing US and foreign patent applications
related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the
development of our business. We, our collaborators or our licensors file patent applications
directed to all drug candidates in an effort to establish intellectual property positions regarding
new chemical entities relating to our drug candidates as well as uses of new chemical entities in
the treatment of CNS disorders.

The patent positions of companies like ours are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and
factual questions. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary position for our technology
will depend on our success in obtaining effective patent claims and enforcing those claims once
granted. We do not know whether any of our patent applications or those patent applications that we
license will result in the issuance of any patents. Our issued patents and those that may be issued
in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or
circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products for
the length of term of patent protection that we may have for our or our collaborators  products. In
addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with competitive
advantages against competitors with similar compounds or technologies. Furthermore, our competitors
may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us in a
manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. Because of the extensive
time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible
that, before any of our products or those developed by our collaborators can be commercialized, any
related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization,
thereby reducing any advantages of the patent.

We rely on trade secrets and other confidential information to maintain our proprietary position. 

In addition to patent protection, we also rely on protection of trade secrets, know-how and
confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and
proprietary information, we have entered into confidentiality agreements with our employees,
consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These
agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to
the individual by us during the course of the individual s relationship with us be kept
confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also provide that
inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our
exclusive property. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and
individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. In the event of
unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements,
even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential
information. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use technology or
know-how owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related
inventions.

Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential
information. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and could
have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth
prospects.

We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our
collaborators or licensors, which could be expensive and time consuming. 

Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. To counter
infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be
expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a
patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using
the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. An adverse
determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk
of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not
issuing.

Interference proceedings brought by the US Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to
determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our
collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if
successful, may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. We may not be
able, alone or with our

31

collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in
countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the US.

Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with
intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could
be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this
kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or
other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these
results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common
stock.

Under our agreement with Bayer, we have the first right, but not the obligation, to enforce the
patent rights covered under the agreement with respect to infringement or interference by any third
party. Under our collaborations with Roche, Roche generally has the first right to bring an action
with respect to the infringement of patent rights covered under the applicable agreement. In the
event that Roche does not exercise this right, we retain the right to bring the infringement
action. Under our Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement, prior to Roche exercising its right
to obtain a license for MEM 3454, we will have the first right to bring an action with respect to
the infringement of patent rights related to MEM 3454. Under our 2005 Amgen Agreement, Amgen has
the sole and exclusive right to enforce the patent rights under that agreement. We may not prevail
in any litigation or interference proceeding in which we are involved. Even if we do prevail, these
proceedings can be very expensive and distract our management.

Third parties may own or control patents or proprietary rights that are infringed by our
technologies or drug candidates. 

Our success depends in part on avoiding the infringement of other parties  patents and proprietary
rights as well as avoiding the breach of any licenses relating to our technologies and products. In
the US, patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older
applications are not published until the patent issues. As a result, there may be patents of which
we are unaware, and avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. We may inadvertently infringe
third-party patents or proprietary rights. These third parties could bring claims against us, our
collaborators or our licensors that even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur
substantial expenses and, if resolved against us, could additionally cause us to pay substantial
damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, our collaborators or our
licensors, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or
sales of any infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe,
unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Such a license may not be available on
acceptable terms, or at all, particularly if the third party is developing or marketing a product
competitive with the infringing product. Even if we, our collaborators or our licensors were able
to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the
same intellectual property. We also may be required to pay substantial damages to the patent holder
in the event of an infringement. Under some circumstances in the US, these damages could be triple
the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we have supplied infringing products to third
parties for marketing or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products,
we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to
the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost
sales or damages paid to the patent holder.

Any successful infringement action brought against us, our collaborators, or our licensors may also
adversely affect marketing of the infringing product in other markets not covered by the
infringement action, as well as our marketing of other products based on similar technology.
Furthermore, we may suffer adverse consequences from a successful infringement action against us,
our collaborators or our licensors even if the action is subsequently reversed on appeal, nullified
through another action or resolved by settlement with the patent holder. The damages or other
remedies awarded, if any, may be significant. As a result, any infringement action against us, our
collaboration partners or our licensors would likely delay the regulatory approval process, harm
our competitive position, be very costly and require significant time and attention of our key
management and technical personnel.

Risks Related to our Common Stock  

Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates have the ability to significantly influence
all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. 

As of March 15, 2006, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned
shares representing approximately 27.7% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these
executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting as a group, have substantial influence
over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of
directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other
significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying
or preventing a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other
stockholders.

32

Our stock price is subject to fluctuation, which may cause an investment in our stock to suffer a
decline in value. 

The trading price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide
fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control,
including:

announcements regarding the results of preclinical tests or clinical studies involving our drug candidates; 

disputes, modifications, terminations or other developments regarding our collaborations; 

announcements regarding new collaborations or changes to current collaborations; 

announcements regarding technological innovations or new products by us, our
collaboration partners or our competitors; 

changes in the market valuations of similar companies; 

conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; 

developments relating to patents and other intellectual property rights, including
disputes with licensors or other third parties, litigation matters and our ability to
obtain patent protection for our chemical compounds or technologies; 

FDA or international regulatory actions; 

additions to or departures of our key personnel; 

actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; 

changes in financial estimates by, or expectations of securities analysts; and 

sales of our common stock. 

In addition, public companies in general and companies listed on The Nasdaq National Market in
particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or
disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been
particular volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology and other life sciences
companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our
common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility
in the market, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such
litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of
management s attention and resources.

Antitakeover provisions that we have in place could entrench our management team and delay or
prevent an acquisition. These provisions could adversely affect the price of our common stock
because purchasers cannot acquire a controlling interest. 

Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or Certificate of
Incorporation, and Amended and Restated Bylaws, or Bylaws, and applicable provisions of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party
from acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions
include:

a classified Board of Directors; 

limitations on the removal of directors; 

limitations on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders; 

the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and 

the ability of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series
of preferred stock without stockholder approval. 

33

The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote
is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation. In
addition, absent approval of our Board of Directors, our Bylaws may only be amended or repealed by
the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to
vote. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of
Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from
consummating a merger with or acquisition of us. These provisions may have the effect of
entrenching our management team and preventing a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to
stockholders. As a result, these provisions may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares
to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a
control premium could reduce the market price of our common stock.

If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline. 

If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market
perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our
common stock could decline significantly. All of the shares sold in our initial public offering in
April 2004 and in our PIPE financing in September 2005 are freely tradable without restriction or
further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our  affiliates  as
that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Substantially all other shares of our
common stock are saleable under Rule 144 under the Securities Act.

Because we do not intend to pay dividends, you will benefit from an investment in our common stock
only if it appreciates in value. 

We have paid no cash dividends on any of our capital stock to date, and we currently intend to
retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a
result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The success of your
investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is
no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you
purchased your shares.

Item 2. Properties .

We currently lease approximately 66,200 square feet of laboratory and office space in Montvale, New
Jersey. Our lease will expire in 2014 if not renewed. We occupy approximately 54,700 square feet
of this space, with approximately 46,500 square feet used for research and development activities
and approximately 8,200 square feet used for general administrative purposes. In 2004 we built out
and expanded into an additional 17,400 square feet for research and development purposes. An
additional 11,500 square feet are available to us for future expansion.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings .

We currently are not a party to any legal proceedings.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders .

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2005.

34

PART II 

Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities .

Our common stock has been quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol MEMY since our
initial public offering on April 5, 2004. Prior to that date, there was no public market for our
common stock. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low bid
prices per share of our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market.

As of March 15, 2006, we had approximately 190 holders of record of our common stock.

Dividend Policy 

We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate declaring
or paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to
retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our
business.

Equity Compensation Plan Information 

The following table provides information as of December 31, 2005 with respect to shares of our
common stock that may be issued under our existing equity compensation plans:

(1) 
       
     Includes options to purchase shares of our common stock under our Amended and Restated 2004
Stock Incentive Plan (the  2004 Plan ) and shares of common stock issued under our 2004
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ). Under the 2004 Plan, the 

35

total number of shares available for issuance automatically increases on January 1 of each year
by an amount equal to the lesser of (x) 1,750,000 shares (an increase of 250,000 shares); (y) 5%
of our outstanding shares on January 1 of each year; or (z) an amount to be determined by our
Board of Directors. 

(2) 
       
     Excludes purchase rights accruing under the ESPP, which has a stockholder-approved reserve of
145,480 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2005. Under the ESPP, eligible employees
may purchase shares of our common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10% of their
eligible compensation. The price paid by the employee is 85% of the fair market value on the
offering date or the last day of the purchase period. There are two purchase periods per
year. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the offering periods commenced on February 1 and
August 1. 

(3) 
       
     Represents shares available as of December 31, 2005 for future issuance under the 2004 Plan
and the ESPP. 

(4) 
       
     Represents warrants to purchase 4,167 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $5.25
per share, which expire in March 2010. 

Item 6. Selected Financial Data .

The following data has been derived from our audited financial statements, including the
consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the related consolidated statements of
operations for the three years ended December 31, 2005 and related notes appearing elsewhere in
this report. The statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 and
the balance sheet data as of December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 are derived from our audited
consolidated financial statements that are not included in this report. You should read the
selected financial data set forth below in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and our financial statements and related notes
included elsewhere in this report.

36

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations .

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and related
notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

OVERVIEW 

Since our incorporation in March 1997, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to the
discovery and development of innovative drug candidates for the treatment of a broad range of CNS
conditions, many of which exhibit significant impairment of memory and other cognitive functions.
These conditions include neurological diseases associated with aging, such as Alzheimer s disease,
and also include certain psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and
depression. We currently have a number of clinical and preclinical drug candidates in development,
as well as other drug discovery programs, addressing specific CNS targets. We do not currently
have any commercial products for sale and do not anticipate having any commercial products for sale
within the foreseeable future. We seek to leverage our pipeline of early development candidates
through collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.

We have entered into two separate collaborations with Roche for clinical development, one for PDE4
inhibitors and the other for nicotinic alpha-7 agonists. As of December 31, 2005, we had received
$53.1 million in upfront licensing fees, research and development funding, milestone payments and
an equity investment under these collaborations.

Under our 2002 Roche Agreement, Roche provided us with research and development funding, initially
for a two-year period, which was extended in August 2004 for an additional two years. In February
2006, in connection with an amendment to the 2003 Roche Agreement, we further amended the 2002
Roche Agreement to terminate Roche s obligation to make research and development funding payments
in support of the PDE4 research collaboration. In August 2005, we amended the 2002 Roche Agreement
to reacquire the right to develop and commercialize MEM 1414 and MEM 1917, the two named drug
candidates under that agreement, following Roche s earlier decision not to pursue further clinical
development of these candidates. We have evaluated the data that we received from Roche and are
currently exploring the potential for a new collaboration for MEM 1414 and MEM 1917. Any further
development of MEM 1414 and MEM 1917 will be funded largely through such a collaboration.

In February 2006, we amended and restated our original 2003 Roche Agreement. Under the terms of
the Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement, we have granted to Roche a worldwide, exclusive,
sublicensable license to all of our patent rights and know-how with respect to our nicotinic
alpha-7 agonists, other than MEM 3454, for the prevention and treatment of diseases, in all
indications, for either human or veterinary use. With respect to MEM 3454, Roche has the option to
obtain a license following our completion of the Phase 2a clinical trial for this candidate. Roche
maintains this license option by paying pre-specified license rights maintenance fees to us. We
will receive an aggregate of $1.75 million of research and development funding in 2006. Subject to
the determination by the parties that certain specified preclinical criteria have been achieved, we
will be eligible to receive an aggregate of approximately $2.3 million in research and development
funding in 2007. On May 3, 2005, we announced that we had received a $2.0 million milestone
payment from Roche related to MEM 3454, a drug candidate being developed under our 2003 Amended and
Restated Roche Agreement. Roche elected to make this first milestone payment in order to maintain
its option to obtain an exclusive license for MEM 3454. The payment was triggered by our
preclinical work on MEM 3454, which satisfied a set of criteria that was pre-defined by Roche, and
the initiation of a Phase 1 clinical trial for MEM 3454 in February 2005.

37

On October 14, 2005, we entered into the 2005 Amgen Agreement for the development of PDE10
inhibitors for neurological and psychiatric disorders. Under the terms of the agreement, we
received a $5.0 million up-front fee in November 2005 and are receiving research and developing
funding as well. Under the terms of the 2005 Amgen Agreement, Amgen is obligated to make milestone
payments to us if we achieve pre-specified research, development, regulatory approval and sales
milestones for certain PDE10 inhibitors to be developed under the agreement. In addition, we are
eligible to receive royalties that will increase with increasing sales levels on worldwide sales of
marketed products from the collaboration.

On December 20, 2005, we entered into a development agreement with SMRI, pursuant to which we plan
to conduct a Phase 2 bipolar disorder clinical trial of MEM 1003. Under the terms of the
development agreement, we are eligible to receive up to $3.2 million in funding from SMRI to
support the development of MEM 1003 for the treatment of bipolar disorder or schizophrenia over the
development term of three years, which term may be extended for additional one-year periods. We
received $960,000 of this funding in exchange for the issuance of 440,367 shares of our common
stock and a warrant to purchase 154,128 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $2.62
per share that becomes exercisable on June 17, 2006 and expires on December 19, 2010. We are
eligible to receive the remaining $2.24 million as milestone payments upon our achievement of
certain milestones related to the Phase 2a trial in bipolar disorder, which we currently plan to
commence in the first half of 2006. If we fail to achieve the third milestone by December 31,
2007, then we will be required to refund to SMRI the portion of the $2.24 million of development
funding advanced by SMRI as of that date.

On September 23, 2005, we completed a private placement in which we issued 16,112,158 shares of
common stock, at a price of $1.90 per share, and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 5,639,232
shares of common stock, resulting in net proceeds of $29.0 million. We refer to this as our
September 2005 Private Placement.

Since our inception, we have incurred substantial losses, and as of December 31, 2005, we had an
accumulated deficit of $152.1 million, of which $19.5 million related to preferred stock dividends
that were forfeited upon the conversion of our redeemable convertible preferred stock upon the
closing of our initial public offering on April 8, 2004. These losses and accumulated deficit have
resulted from the significant costs incurred in the research and development of our compounds and
technologies, including payroll and payroll-related costs, manufacturing costs of preclinical and
clinical grade materials, facility and facility-related costs, preclinical study costs, clinical
trial costs, and general and administrative costs. We expect that our losses will continue for the
foreseeable future as we continue to support our research, development and clinical trial
activities to support our drug discovery and development programs.

Under our June 2001 agreement with Bayer for the in-license of MEM 1003, we had paid $2.0 million
in upfront and milestone payments as of December 31, 2005. We are required to make additional
payments to Bayer of up to $18.0 million in the event that we achieve specified milestones and to
pay royalties on sales of any products incorporating MEM 1003.

Because a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future will depend on achieving
development and clinical milestones, and potentially, from entering into new collaborations, our
revenue may vary substantially from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter. Our operating expenses
may also vary substantially from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter based on the timing and level
of our preclinical and clinical activities performed directly by us versus by our collaboration
partners. We have funded our MEM 1003 program in Alzheimer s disease on our own and, as part of
that program, are currently funding a multi-center Phase 2a clinical trial for MEM 1003, while
continuing to explore the potential for a collaboration for this drug candidate. We cannot assure
you that we will be successful in entering into a collaboration for MEM 1003 on favorable terms, if
at all. If, following the completion of a Phase 2a trial, we have been unable to find a
collaboration partner for MEM 1003, we may, at that time, choose to continue the development of MEM
1003 at our own expense. If we do so, our requirements for capital will substantially increase. We
believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful because
of the range of factors that could affect our results from one year or quarter to the next and
should not be relied on as indicative of our future performance.

REVENUE 

To date, our revenue has been derived from our collaborations with Roche and Amgen. Any additional
revenue that we may receive in the future is expected to consist primarily of upfront license fees,
milestone payments, research and development funding and royalty payments from either Roche, Amgen,
or from other collaborations that we enter into. Because a substantial portion of our revenues for
the foreseeable future will depend on achieving development and clinical milestones, and
potentially, from entering into new collaborations, our revenue may vary substantially from
year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter.

38

RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE 

Research and development expense consists primarily of costs associated with our internal research
and development activities, including salaries and related expenses for personnel, costs of
facilities and equipment, fees paid to contract research organizations and consultants in
connection with our preclinical studies and clinical trials, including for services such as the
independent monitoring of our clinical trials and the evaluation of data from our clinical trials,
costs of materials used in research and development, upfront and milestone payments under our
in-licensing agreement, consulting, license and sponsored university-based research fees paid to
third parties, and depreciation of capital assets used to develop our drug candidates.

We expense both internal and external research and development costs as incurred. We expect our
research and development expense to increase as we continue to develop our drug candidates.

We do not have the ability to conduct all of the preclinical testing of our compounds or clinical
trials of drug candidates on our own. In addition to our collaborators, we rely and will continue
to rely on clinical investigators, third-party contract research organizations and consultants to
perform some or all of the functions associated with preclinical testing or clinical trials. The
failure of any vendor to perform in an acceptable and timely manner in the future, or in accordance
with any FDA regulations, could cause a delay or other material adverse effect on our preclinical
testing, clinical trials and ultimately on the timely advancement of our development programs. If
we or our collaborators cannot locate acceptable contractors to conduct a portion of our or our
collaborators  clinical trials or enter into favorable agreements with them, or if these third
parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, satisfy FDA and other US and
foreign legal and regulatory requirements for the conduct of preclinical testing and clinical
trials or meet expected deadlines, our preclinical or clinical development programs and those of
our collaborators could be delayed and otherwise adversely affected.

To illustrate the material nature of our reliance on third-party clinical research organizations,
the following table shows, from inception through December 31, 2005, the total out-of-pocket
payments made by us to third parties for clinical supplies, preclinical study support and clinical
trials associated with our five compounds currently in preclinical and clinical development. The
table excludes internal costs for each of the drug candidates and out-of-pocket payments made by
our collaboration partners.

We expect that a large percentage of our research and development expenses in the future will
be incurred in support of our current and future preclinical and clinical development programs.
These expenditures are subject to numerous uncertainties in timing and cost to completion. We test
compounds in numerous preclinical studies for safety, toxicology and efficacy. We then conduct
early stage clinical trials for each drug candidate. If we are not able to engage a collaboration
partner prior to the commencement of later stage clinical trials, we may fund these trials
ourselves. As we obtain results from trials, we may elect to discontinue or delay clinical trials
for certain products in order to focus our resources on more promising products. Completion of
clinical trials by us or our collaborators may take several years or more, but the length of time
generally varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of a
drug candidate. The cost of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project as a
result of differences arising during clinical development, including, among others:

39

the number of sites included in the trials; 

the cost associated with recruiting patients; 

the length of time required to enroll suitable patients; 

the number of patients that participate in the trials; 

the duration of patient follow-up that seems appropriate in view of results; and 

the efficacy and safety profile of the drug candidates. 

None of our drug candidates has received FDA or foreign regulatory marketing approval. In order to
achieve marketing approval, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies must conclude that our and our
collaborators  clinical data establishes the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates.
Furthermore, our strategy includes entering into collaborations with third parties to participate
in the development and commercialization of our products, such as our collaborations with Roche and
Amgen. In the event that third parties have control over the preclinical development or clinical
trial process for a drug candidate, the estimated completion date would largely be under the
control of that third party rather than under our control. We cannot forecast with any degree of
certainty which of our drug candidates will be subject to future collaborations or how such
arrangements would affect our development plan for those drug candidates or our capital
requirements.

As a result of the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine the duration and
completion costs of our research and development projects or when, and to what extent, we will
receive cash inflows from the commercialization and sale of a product.

GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE 

General and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries and other related costs for
personnel serving executive, business development, finance, accounting, information technology,
administrative and human resource functions. Other costs include facility costs not included in
research and development expense, depreciation, insurance, professional fees for legal and
accounting services, and the legal costs of pursuing patent protection of our intellectual
property.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Year Ended December 31, 2005 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 

Revenue 

We do not currently have any commercial products for sale and do not anticipate having any
commercial products for sale within the foreseeable future. To date, our revenue has been derived
from our collaborations with Roche and Amgen. Any additional revenue that we may receive in the
future is expected to consist primarily of upfront license fees, milestone payments, research and
development funding and royalty payments from either Roche, Amgen or from other collaborations we
enter into.

Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $11.1 million, representing the currently
recognizable portion of upfront license fees, milestone payments, and research and development
funding from our collaboration agreements with Roche and Amgen. This represented a 13.3% increase
from revenue of $9.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, primarily attributable to
revenue from our 2005 Amgen Agreement.

40

Research and development expense  

Research and development expense increased by $6.7 million, or 24.8%, to $33.7 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005 from $27.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This increase is
attributable to $5.8 million of increased spending relating to the clinical trials for MEM 1003 and
MEM 3454, a $1.3 million non-cash compensation charge associated with the modification of a former
executive officer s stock option agreements, and the $1.0 million milestone payment to Bayer upon
the commencement of the Phase 2a AD clinical trial for MEM 1003, offset by reduced spending of
$800,000 on external research support and $600,000 on lab materials and supplies.

Research and development costs are charged to operations as incurred and include an allocation of
indirect costs of $6.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $5.8 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004. Indirect costs principally represent facility and information technology
related costs.

General and administrative expense  

General and administrative expense increased by $1.0 million, or 13.5%, to $8.4 million for the
year ended December 31, 2005 from $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase
was primarily the result of $2.0 million in increased costs related to legal and patent fees for
the maintenance and expansion of our intellectual property portfolio, and other costs associated
with being a public company, such as board of director fees, investor relations and public
relations costs, accounting and auditing fees, and increased director and officer insurance
premiums. These increases were offset by a reduction in non-cash compensation costs of $1.0
million related to a reduction in grants of stock options to consultants.

Unrealized loss on warrants  

In connection with our September 2005 Private Placement, we issued warrants to purchase an
aggregate of 5, 639, 232 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $2.22 per share. In
accordance with EITF No. 00-19, the warrants have been recorded as a liability and valued at fair
value on the date of issuance. For the year ended December 31, 2005, as a result of an increase in
the fair market value of our common stock since the date of the issuance of the warrants, we
recognized an unrealized loss of $1.6 million in accordance with EITF No. 00-19. Refer to Note 7,
 September 2005 Private Placement. 

Interest income and interest expense  

Interest income increased by $364,000, or 54.7%, to $1.0 million for the year ended December 31,
2005, from the year ended December 31, 2004. Interest expense decreased by $143,000, or 33.9%, to
$279,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, from the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase
in interest income was attributable to higher investment balances and higher interest rates during
2005. The decrease in interest expense was related to the repayment in 2005 of equipment notes.

Income taxes  

For the year ended December 31, 2005, we recognized a tax benefit of $216,000, which represented
proceeds received for the sale of $3.2 million of state net operating loss carryforwards, offset by
$12,000 in state taxes and other adjustments. Our 2004 tax benefit of $249,000 represented
proceeds received for the sale of $3.6 million of state net operating loss carryforwards, offset by
$9,000 in state taxes and other adjustments.

Preferred stock dividends and accretion  

There were no preferred stock dividends and accretion for the year ended December 31, 2005 as
compared to $2.0 million for preferred stock dividends and accretion for the same period in 2004.
This change was attributable to the conversion of our preferred stock in connection with our
initial public offering in April 2004. Upon the closing of our initial public offering on April 8,
2004, all of our preferred stock converted into common stock, and all related accrued dividends
were forfeited.

41

Year Ended December 31, 2004 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 

Revenue  

Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $9.8 million, representing the currently
recognizable portion of upfront license fees, milestone payments, and research and development
funding under our 2002 and 2003 Roche Agreements. This represented a 28.4% increase from revenue
of $7.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, primarily attributable to revenue from our
2003 Roche Agreement.

Research and development expense  

Research and development expense increased by $4.4 million, or 19.2%, to $27.0 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004 from $22.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Of this increase,
$3.0 million was attributable to fees related to our increased use of consulting and outside
service providers in connection with our preclinical and clinical activities, and $1.4 million was
attributable to an increase in occupancy costs associated with our expanded facility. In general,
we expect that research and development expenses will continue to increase as we increase the
number of drug candidates and indications for which we conduct preclinical tests and clinical
trials.

Research and development costs are charged to operations as incurred. Research and development
costs include an allocation of indirect costs of $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004
and $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Indirect costs principally represent
facility and information technology costs.

General and administrative expense  

General and administrative expense increased by $300,000, or 4.2%, to $7.4 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004 from $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase was
primarily the result of $460,000 in higher personnel and personnel-related costs as we hired
personnel appropriate for a public company, an increase of $450,000 for insurance premiums, an
increase in occupancy costs of $219,000 related to our expanded facility, $229,000 in legal fees
relating to the maintenance and expansion of our intellectual property portfolio, and $179,000 of
cost associated with our 401(k) matching benefit to employees that began in 2004. These increases
were offset by a decrease in non-cash compensation expense of $1.2 million related to the grant of
stock options to consultants and employees in 2003. More stock options were granted at current
market prices in 2004 relative to stock options granted in 2003. Therefore, we recognized less
non-cash compensation expense in 2004.

Interest income and interest expense  

Interest income increased by $215,000, or 47.8%, to $665,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004,
from the year ended December 31, 2003. Interest expense decreased by $31,000, or 6.87%, to
$422,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004, from the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase
in interest income was attributable to higher investment balances, due to our receipt of the net
proceeds from our initial public offering in April 2004. The decrease in interest expense was
related to the repayment in 2004 of two equipment notes.

Income taxes  

For the year ended December 31, 2004, we recognized a tax benefit of $258,000, which represented
the proceeds received for the sale of $3.6 million of state net operating loss carryforwards and
was offset by $9,000 in state taxes and other adjustments. Our 2003 tax benefit of $186,000
represented proceeds of $209,000 received during 2003 for the sale of $4.7 million of state net
operating loss carryforwards, and was offset by a $23,000 provision for minimum taxes for New
Jersey.

Preferred stock dividends and accretion  

Preferred stock dividends and accretion decreased by $5.5 million, or 73.3%, to $2.0 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004 from $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. This
decrease was attributable to the conversion of our preferred stock in connection with our initial
public offering in April 2004. Upon the closing of our initial public offering on April 8, 2004,
all of our preferred stock converted into common stock, and all related accrued dividends were
forfeited.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

We have financed our operations since inception through the sale of equity securities, payments
received under our collaboration and development agreements, equipment financings and interest
income. From inception through December 31, 2005, we have raised net proceeds of $163.1 million
from the sale of equity securities. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we have received $29.0
million in upfront and milestone payments, $17.4 million in research and development funding, $10.3
million from equipment financings, $1.7

42

million from the reimbursement of external research costs and $4.6 million in interest income. To
date, inflation has not had a material effect on our business.

At December 31, 2005, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $44.1 million as
compared to $41.1 million at December 31, 2004. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities are highly liquid investments and consist of term deposits and investments in money
market funds with commercial banks and financial institutions, short-term commercial paper,
corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities and government obligations.

Net cash used in operating activities was $25.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. This
primarily reflects the net loss of $31.7 million and working capital uses of $1.3 million offset by
an unrealized loss on warrants of $1.6 million, an increase of $2.3 million of deferred revenue, a
non-cash charge for depreciation expense of $2.2 million, a non-cash stock based compensation
charge of $1.3 million for the modification to vested stock options granted to a former executive
officer, and a $0.1 million charge for other employee stock based compensation costs. Net cash
provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $4.4 million, which
represents a decrease in our net investment in marketable securities of $5.4 million, offset by
funds used for capital expenditures of $1.0 million. Net cash provided by financing activities
during the year ended December 31, 2005 was $29.4 million which consisted of $30.6 million of
proceeds primarily from the issuance of common stock and warrants in our 2005 Private Placement and
$0.8 million of borrowings to finance equipment purchases, offset by $1.9 million used in the
repayment of equipment notes.

The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2005, our contractual obligations for operating
lease payments in connection with the lease of our current facility, equipment notes and contract
research organization obligations. This table should be read in conjunction with the notes
accompanying our financial statements.

The contract research organization obligations in the above table represent firm commitments to
utilize the services of certain service providers in conjunction with the planning, design and
implementation of our clinical trials for MEM 1003 and MEM 3454 in 2006. We expect to incur
increased contract research organization costs as we increase the number of drug candidates and
indications for which we conduct preclinical tests and clinical trials beyond 2006. However, as of
December 31, 2005, we did not have any contractual obligations beyond December 31, 2006. In
addition, the nature of the work being conducted under our agreements with contract research
organizations is such that work may be stopped with very short notice. In such event, we will not
be liable for the full amount of the contract. Our contractual obligations may vary depending upon
the results of underlying studies, the completion of preclinical work and/or clinical trials and
certain other variables that may yield a result that differs from our estimate.

In connection with our in-license agreement with Bayer for MEM 1003, we are required to make
additional payments of up to $18.0 million to Bayer upon our achievement of specified milestones
and to pay royalties to Bayer upon sales of any products incorporating MEM 1003. The other amounts
due to Bayer have not been included in the above table as a result of the uncertainty of when, if
ever, these milestones will be achieved.

We expect to incur losses from operations for the foreseeable future. We expect to incur
increasing research and development expenses, including expenses related to additional preclinical
testing and clinical trials. We are funding or contemplating funding the development of several of
our drug candidates and programs. Our most significant commitment currently is to MEM 1003, for
which we are funding a multi-center Phase 2a clinical trial in Alzheimer s disease. We believe that
our existing cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities, together with payments required
to be made by our collaboration partners will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses,
repayment of equipment notes and capital equipment requirements through the first quarter of 2007.
Our future cash requirements will depend on many factors, including:

the number of compounds and drug candidates that we advance through the development process; 

43

the funding we receive from our collaborations; 

whether we are able to enter into a collaboration with regard to MEM 1003, and the terms of any such collaboration; 

the scope and results of our and our collaborators  clinical trials; 

potential in-licensing or acquisition of other compounds or technologies; 

the costs involved in utilizing third party contract research organizations for preclinical studies and clinical trials; 

the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals; 

the availability of third parties, and the cost, to manufacture compounds for clinical trial supply; 

the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing
patent claims and other patent-related costs, including litigation costs and the results
of such litigation; and 

the cost of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and
distribution. 

Currently we have no committed sources of capital. To the extent our capital resources are
insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will need to raise additional capital by
selling equity or by incurring additional indebtedness to fund our operations. We cannot assure you
that additional equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If
adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate our
research and development programs, reduce our commercialization efforts, or obtain funds through
arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain drug
candidates that we might otherwise seek to develop or commercialize independently. Additionally,
any future equity funding may dilute the ownership of our equity investors.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our
financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America (US GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments,
including those related to revenue recognition, accrued expenses, research and development and the
fair value of our equity securities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various
other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which
form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are
not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions.

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the judgments and estimates used in
the preparation of our financial statements.

Revenue recognition  

We recognize revenue relating to our collaborations in accordance with the SEC s Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition. Revenues under such collaborations may include the receipt
of non-refundable license fees, milestone payments and research and development funding. Deferred
revenue consists of payments received in advance of revenue recognition under such collaborations.

Given the various types of payments to us under our collaboration agreements, we must evaluate
these agreements to determine units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes. Under the
terms of our 2002 Roche Agreement, because we have licensed to Roche certain intellectual property
and we have continuing performance obligations, we are recognizing the non-refundable upfront
license fees and performance milestone payments as revenue ratably over the period in which we
expect to obtain FDA approval of the first compound to be developed under the collaboration. As a
result of Roche s decision, in April 2005, not to pursue the further development of the two named
drug candidates under our PDE4 inhibitor collaboration, MEM 1414 and its back-up MEM 1917, we have
reassessed the expected period for the development of the first compound under the 2002 Roche
Agreement. Solely for purposes of revenue recognition under our 2002 Roche Agreement, we have
estimated the period until approval by the FDA of the first compound under that collaboration as
ending in the second quarter of 2014.

44

We apply the provisions of EITF No. 00-21  Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple
Deliverables,  prospectively to the original 2003 Roche Agreement using a single unit of
accounting, since under that agreement, Roche had the right to enter into a license. As of
December 31, 2005, revenue under the original 2003 Roche Agreement was recognized over the
five-year period that Roche had to obtain a sub-licensable license to our patent rights and
know-how for any nicotinic alpha-7 agonist that we developed. Revenue was being recognized over
this period based on the level of effort expended in a period as compared to our estimated effort
over the full five-year period. Milestone payments and research and development funding received
under the original 2003 Roche Agreement were recognized prospectively over the remaining term of
the agreement based on level of effort. On February 27, 2006, we amended and restated the 2003
Roche Agreement to grant to Roche a worldwide, exclusive, sublicensable license to all of our
patent rights and know how with respect to our nicotinic alpha-7 agonists, other than MEM 3454.
With respect to MEM 3454, Roche continues to have the option to obtain a license to MEM 3454
following our completion of the Phase 2a clinical trial for this drug candidate. We are currently
evaluating the prospective impact of the terms of the Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement on
revenue recognition, including the period over which revenue will be recognized under the amended
agreement.

In accordance with EITF No. 00-21, under the terms of our 2005 Amgen Agreement, we are recognizing
the non-refundable upfront license fee and performance milestone payments as revenue ratably over
the two-year term of the agreement. We will recognize revenue over the two-year term based on the
level of effort expended in a period as compared to our estimated efforts over the full period.

We periodically review the estimated development periods for our compounds and our estimated
research efforts and, to the extent such estimates change, the impact of such change is recorded
prospectively. Payments received from our collaboration partners for research and development
funding that are deemed to be a separate unit of accounting, as defined by EITF No. 00-21, are
recognized as such research and development services are performed. Otherwise, the payments are
recognized over the term of the applicable collaboration agreement or drug candidate s estimated
approval period.

Accrued expenses  

As part of the process of preparing financial statements, we are required to estimate accrued
expenses. This process involves identifying services that have been performed on our behalf and
estimating the level of service performed and the associated cost incurred for such service where
we have not been invoiced or otherwise notified of actual cost. This is done as of each balance
sheet date in our financial statements. Examples of estimated accrued expenses include:

professional service fees, such as attorneys  and accountants  fees; 

preclinical and clinical contract research organization fees; 

fees to be paid to data management organizations and investigators in conjunction with clinical trials; and 

fees to be paid to contract manufacturers in conjunction with the production of the
clinical supply of our drug candidates. 

In connection with the above services, our estimates are most affected by our projections of the
timing of services provided relative to the actual level of services performed by such service
providers. The majority of our service providers invoice us monthly in arrears for services
performed. In the event that we do not identify certain costs that have begun to be incurred or we
under- or over-estimate the level of services performed or the costs of such services, our actual
expenses could materially differ from such estimates. The date on which certain services commence,
the level of services performed on or before a given date, and the cost of such services are often
subjective determinations. We make these judgments based upon the facts and circumstances known to
us in accordance with US GAAP.

Research and development expense  

Research and development expense consists primarily of costs associated with our internal research
and development activities, including salaries and related expenses for personnel, costs of
facilities and equipment, fees paid to contract research organizations and consultants in
connection with our preclinical studies and clinical trials, including for services such as the
independent monitoring of our clinical trials and the evaluation of data from our clinical trials,
costs of materials used in research and development, upfront and milestone payments under our
in-licensing agreement, consulting, license and sponsored university-based research fees paid to
third parties, and depreciation of capital assets used to develop our drug candidates.

45

Stock-based compensation  

We have elected to follow Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees , and related interpretations, in accounting for our stock-based employee
compensation plans, rather than the alternative fair value accounting method provided for under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation . In the notes to our financial statements, we provide pro forma disclosures in
accordance with SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,
Transition and Disclosure, and related pronouncements .

We account for stock options and warrants granted to non-employees based on the fair value of the
stock option or warrant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model based on assumptions for
expected stock price volatility, expected term of the option, risk-free interest rate and expected
dividend yield at the grant date. Prior to April 5, 2004, our common stock was not publicly
traded. As a result, in valuing our common stock, stock options and warrants issued prior to that
date, we considered the pricing of private equity sales, company-specific events, independent
valuations, economic trends and the rights and preferences of the security being valued. Since our
initial public offering, the fair value of stock-based compensation has been based on the price of
our common stock on the measurement date.

Recently issued Accounting Standard  

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS 123 (revised 2004)
statement, Share-Based Payment, (SFAS 123R), which addresses the accounting for share-based awards
to employees, including those made under employee stock purchase plans. SFAS 123R requires
companies to recognize the fair value of stock options and other stock-based compensation to
employees in their statements of operations. The effective date of SFAS 123R for us is January 1,
2006. Because we currently account for our stock-based compensation plans in accordance with APB
Opinion No. 25, which does not require expensing compensation cost in our statement of operations,
the adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements
beginning in the first quarter of 2006.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk .

We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculation or trading purposes. However, we
are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates. We currently do not hedge interest
rate exposure. Our current policy is to maintain an investment portfolio consisting mainly of US
money market funds, government obligations, mortgage-backed securities, and corporate debt
securities, directly or through managed funds. Our cash is deposited in and invested through highly
rated financial institutions in North America. Our marketable securities are subject to interest
rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. If market interest rates were
to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels at December 31, 2005, we estimate that the
fair value of our investment portfolio would decline by an immaterial amount. There has been no
material change to our market risk since December 31, 2005.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data .

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

46

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp.:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp. as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, and the related statements of operations, stockholder s equity/(deficit), and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp. as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Short
Hills, New Jersey 
March 30, 2006

47

MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP. 

BALANCE SHEETS 

(in thousands, except for share and per share amounts) 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

48

MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP. 

STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

(in thousands, except for share and per share amounts) 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

49

MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP. 

STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY / (DEFICIT) 

(in thousands, except for share amounts) 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

50

MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP. 

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

(in thousands) 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

51

MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP. 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1)  
       
      ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS OVERVIEW  

Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp. was incorporated on March 19, 1997 under the laws of the State
of Delaware and commenced operations on January 1, 1998. Except as expressly indicated or
unless the context otherwise requires, as used herein, the  Company,   we,   us,   our,  or
similar terms means Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp. 

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of innovative
drug candidates for the treatment of a broad range of CNS conditions, many of which exhibit
significant impairment of memory and other cognitive functions. These conditions include
neurological diseases associated with aging, such as Alzheimer s disease and also include
certain psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression. 

We have an accumulated deficit of $152.1 million at December 31, 2005. We intend to continue
research toward the development of commercial products in order to generate future revenue
from our current and future collaboration agreements. We financed our initial operations
through the sale of redeemable convertible preferred stock and subsequent to that we sold
common stock as part of an initial public offering on April 5, 2004 and again as part of our
September 2005 Private Placement. Refer to: Note 7,  September 2005 Private Placement,  Note
8,  Initial Public Offering of Common Stock,  and Note 9,  Redeemable Convertible Preferred
Stock,  for further details. 

We face certain risks and uncertainties which are present in many emerging biopharmaceutical
companies. We have not completed development of any drugs and we do not expect that any
drugs resulting from our research and development efforts will be commercially available for
a significant number of years, if at all. We will continue to seek collaboration partners to
fund a substantial portion of our research operations over the next several years. In
addition, we face risks and uncertainties regarding future profitability, ability to obtain
future capital, protection of patents and property rights, competition, rapid technological
change, government regulations including the need for product approvals, changes in the
health care marketplace, recruiting and retaining key personnel and the performance of
contract research organizations. 

2)  
       
      SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Use of Estimates 

The preparation of the financial statements requires us to make a number of estimates and
assumptions relating to the reported amount of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenue and expenses during the period. Significant items subject to such
estimates and assumptions include the fair value of our equity securities, carrying amount of
property, plant and equipment, valuation allowances for deferred income tax assets,
obligations related to employee benefits, the estimated development period for revenue
recognition under our collaborations and estimated liabilities for services provided by
contract research organizations. Actual results could differ from those estimated. 

Revenue Recognition 

We recognize revenue relating to our collaborations in accordance with the SEC s Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition. Revenue under our collaborations may
include the receipt of non-refundable upfront license fees, milestone payments and research
and development funding. Deferred revenue consists of payments received in advance of revenue
recognition under our collaborations. 

Given the various types of payments to us under our collaboration agreements, we must
evaluate these agreements to determine units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes.
Under the terms of our 2002 Roche Agreement, because we have licensed to Roche certain
intellectual property and have continuing performance obligations, we are recognizing the
non-refundable upfront license fees and performance milestone payments as revenue ratably
over the period in which we expect to obtain FDA approval of the first compound to be
developed under the collaboration. As a result of Roche s decision, in April 2005, not to
pursue further development of the two named drug candidates under our PDE4 inhibitor
collaboration, MEM 1414 and its back-up MEM 1917, we have reassessed the expected period for
the development of the first compound under the 2002 Roche Agreement. Solely for purposes of
revenue recognition under our 2002 Roche Agreement, we have estimated the period until
approval by the FDA of the first compound under that collaboration as ending in the second
quarter of 2014. 

52

We are applying the provisions of EITF No. 00-21  Accounting for Revenue Arrangements
with Multiple Deliverables,  prospectively to the original Roche 2003 Agreement using a
single unit of accounting, since Roche had the right to enter into a license under this
agreement. Revenue was recognized over the original five-year period that Roche had to
obtain a sub-licensable license to our patent rights and know-how for any nicotinic alpha-7
that we developed. Revenue was being recognized over the five-year period based on the level
of efforts expended in a period as compared to our estimated efforts over the full period.
Milestone payments received under the agreement were recognized prospectively over the
remaining term of the agreement based on level of effort. This agreement was amended and
restated on February 27, 2006. Under the terms of the Amended and Restated 2003 Roche
Agreement, we have granted to Roche a worldwide, exclusive, sub-licensable license to all of
our patent rights and know-how with respect to our nicotinic alpha-7 agonists, other than MEM
3454, for the prevention and treatment of diseases, in all indications, for either human or
veterinary use. We are currently evaluating the prospective impact of the terms of the
Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement on revenue recognition, including the period over
which revenue will be recognized under the amended agreement. 

Under the terms of our 2005 Amgen Agreement, we are recognizing the non-refundable upfront
license fee and performance milestone payments as revenue ratably over the term of the
research collaboration under the agreement. We will recognize revenue over the two-year term
of the research collaboration under the agreement based on the level of efforts expended in a
period as compared to our estimated efforts over the full period. 

We periodically review the estimated development periods and our estimated research efforts
under our collaborations and, to the extent such estimates change, the impact of such change
is recorded prospectively. Payments received from our collaboration partners for research
and development activities performed by us that are deemed to be a separate unit of
accounting, as defined by EITF No. 00-21, are recognized as revenue as research and
development services are performed. Otherwise, the payments are recognized as revenue over
the term of the applicable collaboration agreement or the expected period for the first
compound to be developed under the agreement. 

Concentrations of Credit Risk 

Financial instruments that subject us to credit risks are cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities. We invest our cash in money market funds and highly rated commercial
paper. Our cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds and other debt
investments. Our marketable securities are debt securities primarily consisting of
government obligations, mortgage-backed securities, and corporate debt securities. 

All of our revenue recognized during 2005, 2004 and 2003 was pursuant to our 2005 Amgen
Agreement, our Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement and our 2002 Roche Agreement. Refer
to Note 11,  License Agreements and Collaborations.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

We consider all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the time
of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds
and other debt investments that are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. 

Marketable Securities 

Our marketable securities are debt securities primarily consisting of government obligations,
mortgage-backed securities, and corporate debt securities. We classify all of our marketable
securities as available-for-sale, as defined by SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair
value, with unrealized gains and losses reported as a component of stockholders  equity
(deficit) in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Interest income, realized gains and
losses, and declines in value judged to be other-than-temporary on securities are included in
our consolidated Statements of Operations. 

Property and Equipment 

We record property and equipment at cost. Leasehold improvements represent capital
improvements made to our leased property. Laboratory and computer equipment, furniture and
fixtures are stated at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful life of the respective asset, which is approximately three to seven years. Leasehold
improvements are stated at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining
term of the facility lease agreement, which approximates nine years. Maintenance and repairs
that do not extend the useful life of the asset are expensed as incurred. Refer to Note 16,
 Commitments and Contingencies.  

53

Research and Development 

All research and development costs are charged to operations as incurred. Research and
development costs include an allocation of indirect costs of $6.2 million, $5.8 million, and
$4.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Indirect
costs principally represent facility and information technology costs. These costs are
allocated to research and development based on the approximate usage of our facility and
information technology by our research and development departments. 

Restricted Cash 

Restricted cash represents letters of credit of an aggregate of $505,000 as of December 31,
2005 and December 31, 2004, which are required as security for the performance of our
obligations under the lease agreement for our Montvale, New Jersey facility. The letters of
credit are collateralized by interest-bearing certificates of deposit. 

Income Taxes 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the amounts of existing assets and liabilities carried on
the financial statements and their respective tax bases and the benefits arising from the
realization of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. A valuation allowance is established
when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. 

Warrant Liability 

In connection with our September 2005 Private Placement we issued warrants to purchase an
aggregate of 5,639,232 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $2.22 per share.
In accordance with EITF No. 00-19, the warrants have been recorded as a liability and valued
at fair value on the date of issuance. Subsequent changes in fair value are recorded in our
statement of operations. Refer to Note 7,  September 2005 Private Placement.  

Stock-based Compensation 

We apply the intrinsic-value based method of accounting prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25, and
related interpretations including FASB Interpretation No. 44, Accounting for Certain
Transactions involving Stock Compensation, an interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25, issued in
March 2000, to account for our fixed-plan employee stock options. Under this method,
compensation expense is recorded on the date of grant only if the current market price of the
underlying stock exceeds the exercise price. SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation, as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, Transition
and Disclosure, established accounting and disclosure requirements using a fair-value based
method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation plans. As allowed by SFAS No. 123
and No. 148, we have elected to continue to apply the intrinsic-value based method of
accounting for employee stock options described above, and have adopted only the disclosure
requirements of SFAS No. 148. 

We account for stock options and warrants granted to non-employees based on the fair value of
the stock option or warrant. Fair market value is determined using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model based on assumptions for expected stock price volatility, expected term
of the option, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividend yield at the grant date.
Prior to April 5, 2004, our common stock was not publicly traded. As a result, in valuing our
common stock, stock options and warrants issued prior to this date, we considered the pricing
of private equity sales, company-specific events, independent valuations, economic trends and
the rights and preferences of the security being valued. 

The following table illustrates the effect on net loss attributable to common stockholders if
the fair-value based method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested awards each
period. The assumptions used to value the awards are included below. Because options granted
during 2005, 2004, and 2003 vest over several years and additional awards are expected to be
issued in the future, the pro forma results shown below are not likely to be representative
of the effects on future years of the application of the fair-value based method. 

54

The fair values of these option grants were calculated using weighted averages of assumptions
for the multiple stock options granted during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and
2003. 

Recently Issued Accounting Standard 

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, SFAS 123R
which addresses the accounting for share-based awards to employees, including those made
under employee stock purchase plans. SFAS 123R requires companies to recognize the fair
value of stock options and other stock-based compensation to employees in their Statements of
Operations. The effective date of SFAS 123R for us is January 1, 2006. Because we currently
account for our stock-based compensation plans in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, the
adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements
beginning in the first quarter of 2006. 

Net Loss Per Share 

Basic net loss per share is calculated by dividing net loss attributable to common
stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the
period. Diluted net loss per share is computed by dividing net loss attributable to common
stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock and the dilutive
potential common stock equivalents then outstanding. Potential common stock equivalents
consist of stock options, warrants and redeemable convertible preferred stock. 

Since we had a net loss in each of the periods presented, basic and diluted net loss per
share is the same, because the effect of including potential common stock equivalents would
be anti-dilutive. Therefore, diluted weighted average shares outstanding exclude shares
underlying the stock options, warrants and redeemable convertible preferred stock. These
potential common stock equivalents are summarized as follows: 

55

Refer to Note 9,  Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock,  for the details of the conversion
of the redeemable convertible preferred stock. 

Pro Forma Net Loss per Share (UNAUDITED) 

Pro forma net loss per share is calculated using the weighted average number of shares of
common stock outstanding, including the pro forma effects of the automatic conversion of all
outstanding redeemable convertible preferred stock into shares of our common stock effective
upon the closing of our initial public offering, as if such conversion had occurred at the
date of the original issuance. 

The following table sets forth the calculation of basic and diluted net loss per share and
pro forma basic and diluted net loss per share for the years ending December 31, 2005, 2004,
and 2003. The pro forma basic and diluted net loss per share gives effect to the conversion
of the redeemable convertible preferred stock as if converted at the date of original
issuance: 

Comprehensive Loss 

Comprehensive loss is calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 130,  Reporting Comprehensive
Income  and includes our net loss and unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale
marketable securities. Cumulative unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale
marketable securities are reflected as accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders 
equity / (deficit) on our balance sheet. For the year ended December 31, 2005,
comprehensive loss was $31.7 million, which includes our net loss of $31.7 million, and an
unrealized gain on available-for-sale marketable securities of $22,000. For the year ended
December 31, 2004, our comprehensive loss was $24.1 million, which includes our net loss of
$24.1 million, and an unrealized loss on available-for-sale marketable securities of $45,000.
For the year ended December 31, 2003, our comprehensive loss was the same as our reported
net loss. 

56

3)  
       
      MARKETABLE SECURITIES  

The following is a summary of our available-for-sale investments in debt securities that we
include in current assets on our balance sheet at fair value: 

* 
       
     Classified as cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet. 

The amortized cost and fair value of our available-for-sale investments in debt securities by
stated maturity at December 31, 2005 is as follows: 

* 
       
     Classified as cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet. 

We evaluate declines in fair value of our investments in available-for-sale marketable
securities to determine if these declines are other-than-temporary. If a decline in fair
value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge would be recorded and a
new cost basis in the investment would be established. Gain or loss on the sale of marketable
securities is determined using the specific identification method. 

57

4)  
       
      PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT  

Property and equipment consists of the following: 

6)  
       
      STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION  

STOCK OPTIONS 

Our 2004 Plan was adopted in April 2004. The 2004 Plan permits the granting of both
incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options. Options are exercisable over a
period determined by the Board of Directors, but such period cannot be longer than ten years
after the grant date. The exercise price is the closing market price of our stock at the
date of grant. 

Our 1998 Employee, Director and Consultant Stock Option Plan (the  1998 Equity Plan ), was
adopted in March 1998. Both incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options were
granted under the 1998 Equity Plan. Options granted under the 1998 Equity Plan are
exercisable over a period of ten years after the grant date. Our Board of Directors
determines the exercise price at the time of grant of such options. 

58

At December 31, 2004, there were stock options to purchase 1,732,743 shares of common stock
exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of $1.99 and at December 31, 2003, there
were stock options to purchase 1,407,389 shares of common stock exercisable at a weighted
average exercise price of $1.05. 

During 2005, we recognized $1.3 million of compensation expense related to the modification
of a former executive officer s stock option agreement in accordance. 

Upon the closing of our initial public offering, we granted a non-employee, pursuant to a
consulting agreement, stock options to purchase 117,187 shares of common stock with an
exercise price equal to the initial public offering price of $7.00, as a result, we
recognized compensation expense of $437,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004, as these
stock options vested immediately. The fair value of the stock option granted was based on
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model using the following assumptions: 60% volatility,
expected dividend yield of 0%, expected life of five years and risk-free interest rate of
3.2% 

During 2003, we granted stock options to purchase 91,727 shares of common stock at an
exercise price of $2.70 per share to a non-employee pursuant to a consulting agreement. We
recognized compensation expense of $1.1 million in 2003, which was attributable to the fair
value of the stock options, as the stock options vested immediately. The fair value of the
stock 

59

options granted was based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model using the following
assumptions: 60% volatility, expected dividend yield of 0%, expected life of five years and
risk-free interest rate of 2.9%. 

STOCK AWARDS 

We issued stock awards of 15,000 shares of our common stock during 2003. We recognized
$97,000 of compensation expense during 2003, as such awards vested immediately. 

FORFEITURE OF CERTAIN STOCK OPTIONS 

In January 2004, we granted a stock option to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock to an
employee at an exercise price of $2.70 per share. Deferred compensation expense of $1.1
million attributable to the intrinsic value of the options granted was measured at the
measurement date for the grant. Compensation expense was being recognized ratably over the
four-year vesting period. We had recognized $212,000 of total compensation expense during
2004 related to this option grant. This employee resigned in December 2004. Deferred
compensation has been adjusted by $918,000 to reflect the forfeiture of the unvested portion
of this stock option grant. 

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN 

In 2004, we created a plan for all eligible employees to purchase our stock bi-annually at
85% of the fair market value, with funds deducted from their wages, subject to certain
limitations. The purchase price is based on the market price at the date of the purchase or
the price of our common stock at the beginning of the offering period, if lower. Employees
are permitted to cancel participation before each bi-annual purchase date and obtain a refund
of amounts withheld from their wages. Under SFAS 123R, we believe our plan will be
compensatory, and therefore we will begin to recognize compensation expense for this plan
beginning in the first quarter of 2006. The ESPP has a stockholder approved reserve of
145,480 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2005. 

7)  
       
      SEPTEMBER 2005 PRIVATE PLACEMENT  

On September 23, 2005, we completed a private placement in which we issued 16,112,158 shares
of common stock, at a price of $1.90 per share, and warrants to purchase an aggregate of
5,639,232 shares of common stock, resulting in net proceeds of $29.0 million. 

The warrants are currently exercisable, have a five-year term and an exercise price per share
of $2.22. In accordance with EITF No. 00-19, the warrants have been recorded as a long-term
liability and valued at fair value on the date of issuance. The fair value of the warrants on
the date of issuance was $6.8 million and was determined using the Black-Scholes model with
the following assumptions: dividend yield of 0%; estimated volatility of 80%; risk free
interest rate of 4.07% and a contractual life of five years. 

As required under the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which the
private placement was consummated, we filed a registration statement with the SEC to register
for resale the shares of common stock and the shares of common stock issuable upon the
exercise of the warrants sold in the private placement. The registration statement became
effective on November 7, 2005. 

In addition, we agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to keep the registration statement
effective until the earlier of two years after the effective date of the registration
statement or the date on which the shares of common stock and the shares of common stock
issuable upon exercise of the warrants become eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144(k)
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. If we suspend or otherwise fail to maintain
effectiveness, we will have to pay each purchaser liquidated damages in an amount equal to
1.0% of the purchase price paid by such purchaser for the securities in the private placement
for each 30-day period during which such registration statement is suspended or otherwise not
effective. 

In accordance with EITF No. 00-19, we recorded the estimated fair value of the warrants as of
the closing date of our private placement at $6.8 million and recorded it as a warrant
liability on our consolidated balance sheet. The fair value of the warrant liability is
recalculated at each balance sheet date, with the non-cash change in the fair value reported
on the consolidated statement of operations. We have recorded an unrealized loss on the
warrants of $1.6 million for the period ended December 31, 2005. This amount will be
adjusted at the end of each quarter to reflect any change in fair value at such 

60

date. Upon the earlier of the exercise of the warrants, or the expiration of the period for
which liquidated damages may be assessed against us, the fair value of the warrant liability
will be reclassified to additional paid-in capital. 

8)  
       
      INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING OF COMMON STOCK  

In April 2004, we sold 5,000,000 shares of our common stock in our initial public offering at
a price of $7.00 per share. We also issued an additional 750,000 shares of common stock
through an over-allotment option exercised by our managing underwriters in April 2004, at
$7.00 per share. After deducting underwriting discounts and expenses and estimated
offering-related expenses, the initial public offering resulted in net proceeds to us of
approximately $35.3 million. In connection with the initial public offering, all of the
outstanding shares of the Company s redeemable convertible preferred stock were automatically
converted into shares of our common stock as described in Note 9,  Redeemable Convertible
Preferred Stock.  Our registration statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-111474),
was declared effective by the SEC on April 5, 2004. 

9)  
       
      REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

Upon the closing of our initial public offering in April 2004, all of the outstanding shares
of our redeemable convertible preferred stock, including accrued but unpaid dividends, were
automatically converted into 13,295,427 shares of common stock. 

Common stock issued upon automatic conversion is as follows: 

(1) 
       
     As a result of our issuance of Series D redeemable convertible preferred stock,
at a price per share less than $2.50, the conversion ratio of the number of shares of
common stock into which each share of Series C is convertible was adjusted so that each
share of Series C is convertible into 0.3559 shares of common stock. Pursuant to this
anti-dilution provision, the conversion of Series C would result in the issuance of an
additional 225,195 shares of common stock. We recorded a deemed dividend of $169,000 during
2002 to recognize the value attributable to the increase in conversion ratio based on an
estimated fair value of the common stock. 

(2) 
       
     We issued 2,777,778 shares of Series Roche redeemable convertible preferred
stock and 115,740 warrants to purchase common stock at $12.96 per share to Roche for $10.0
million. The proceeds of $10.0 million was allocated to redeemable convertible preferred
stock and additional paid-in capital based on the relative fair value of the preferred
stock and the warrants. We also recorded a beneficial conversion feature of $584,000,
which increased the net loss attributable to common stockholders during the year ended
December 31, 2003. 

Accrued Dividends 

Dividends on the Series A, Series B, Series C, Series D and Series Roche redeemable
convertible preferred stock accrued at an annual rate of 8%, whether or not funds were
legally available or dividends were declared by the Board of Directors. Upon the closing of
our initial public offering on April 8, 2004, all of our preferred stock converted into
common stock, and all related accrued dividends in the amount of $19.5 million were
forfeited. 

61

10)  
       
      STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY  

WARRANTS 

During 2005, in connection with the September 2005 Private Placement, we issued warrants to
purchase 5,639,232 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $2.22 per share. The
warrants are currently exercisable and have an expiration date of September 22, 2010. Refer
to Note 7,  September 2005 Private Placement.  

In December 2005, in connection with the consummation of our development agreement with SMRI,
we issued warrants to purchase 154,128 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of
$2.62 per share to SMRI. These warrants become exercisable on June 17, 2006 and expire on
December 18, 2010. Refer to Note 11,  License Agreements and Collaborations.  

During 2003, in connection with the issuance of the Series Roche redeemable convertible
preferred stock, we issued warrants to purchase 115,740 shares of our common stock to Roche
at an exercise price of $12.96 per share. The warrants are exercisable immediately and
expire on August 19, 2008. Refer to Note 9,  Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock.  

At December 31, 2005, the lessor of our facility held warrants to purchase 4,167 shares of
our common stock at an exercise price of $5.25 per share. These warrants expire on March 8,
2010. 

Additionally, 1,536 shares of common stock were issued upon the net share settled exercise of
warrants, which occurred immediately prior to the closing of our initial public offering. 

11)  
       
      LICENSE AGREEMENTS AND COLLABORATIONS  

Bayer AG in-license  

In June 2001, we entered into an agreement with Bayer for an exclusive, worldwide,
sub-licensable license under certain Bayer patents and know-how to MEM1003 for the treatment
of human peripheral and CNS-related disorders. As of December 31, 2005, we have made an
upfront payment of $250,000 to Bayer, as well as milestone payments of $750,000 upon the
initiation of Phase 1 clinical trials for MEM 1003 and $1.0 million upon the commencement of
Phase 2a AD clinical trials for MEM 1003. We are required to make additional payments of up
to $18.0 million upon our achievement of specified milestones. We are also obligated to pay
royalties during the term of the agreement based on a specified percentage of worldwide net
sales of products covered by the license agreement, which increases at increasing net sales
levels and varies depending on whether the sales are made by us or by a sub-licensee. 

Hoffmann-LaRoche (2002 Roche Agreement)  

In July 2002, we entered into an agreement with Roche for the development of PDE4 inhibitors
for the treatment of neurological and psychiatric indications, and potentially other
indications. Under this agreement, we granted Roche a worldwide, exclusive, sub-licensable
license to our patent rights and know-how with respect to any PDE4 inhibitor for the
prevention and treatment of diseases, in all indications, for either human or veterinary use.
Under this Agreement, Roche provided us with research and development funding, initially for
a two-year period, which was extended in August 2004 for an additional two years. In August
2005, we amended the 2002 Roche Agreement to reacquire the right to develop and commercialize
MEM 1414 and MEM 1917, following Roche s earlier decision not to pursue further clinical
development of these candidates and Roche received an option, exercisable following the
completion of Phase 2 clinical trials for each drug candidate, to continue that drug
candidate s development and commercialization. If Roche exercises its option to obtain an
exclusive license to MEM 1414 and/or MEM 1917 and continues the development and
commercialization of either drug candidate, we will be entitled to receive
development-related milestone payments for specified events occurring after the initiation of
Phase 3 clinical trials and royalties based on worldwide sales. In addition, under certain
circumstances, we will have the option to co-promote MEM 1414 and MEM 1917 in the US or in
the US and the EU. Roche maintains its exclusive, worldwide license to develop and
commercialize all other drug candidates from our PDE4 inhibitor program. In February 2006,
in connection with an amendment to our original 2003 Roche collaboration, we further amended
the 2002 Roche Agreement to terminate Roche s obligation to make research and development
funding payments in support of the PDE4 research collaboration. 

Roche has paid us a total of $25.1 million through December 31, 2005 under the 2002 Roche
Agreement, comprised of an upfront license fee of $8.0 million, research and development
funding of $13.1 million and milestone payments totalling $4.0 million. Roche is obligated to
make future payments to us if specified developmental milestones are achieved. 

62

During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, we recognized revenue of $4.6
million, $5.1 million and $6.5 million, respectively, under the 2002 Roche Agreement,
representing the upfront license payment and milestone payments, which are being amortized
over the expected period for the development of the first compound under the 2002 Roche
Agreement, and research and development funding. 

Hoffmann-LaRoche (Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement)  

In August 2003, we entered into a second collaboration with Roche for the development of
nicotinic alpha-7 agonists for the treatment of CNS indications including schizophrenia and
Alzheimer s disease. This agreement was amended and restated on February 27, 2006. Under
the terms of the Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement, we have granted to Roche a
worldwide, exclusive, sub-licensable license to all of our patent rights and know-how with
respect to our nicotinic alpha-7 agonists, other than MEM 3454, for the prevention and
treatment of diseases, in all indications, for either human or veterinary use. With respect
to MEM 3454, Roche has the option to obtain a license following our completion of the Phase
2a clinical trial for this drug candidate. Under the terms of the Amended and Restated 2003
Roche Agreement, we will receive an aggregate of $1.75 million of research and development
funding in 2006. Subject to the determination by the parties that certain specified
preclinical criteria have been achieved, we will be eligible to receive an aggregate of
approximately $2.3 million (based on 1USD: 1.31 CHF) in research and development funding in
2007. We are currently evaluating the prospective impact of the terms of the Amended and
Restated 2003 Roche Agreement on revenue recognition, including the period over which revenue
will be recognized under the amended agreement. 

Roche has paid us a total of $28.0 million through December 31, 2005 under the Amended and
Restated 2003 Roche Agreement, comprised of an upfront license fee of $10.0 million, an
equity investment of $10.0 million, research and development funding of $6.0 million and a
milestone payment of $2.0 million. Roche is obligated to make future payments to us if
specified developmental milestones are achieved. During the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004, and 2003, we recognized revenue of $5.3 million, $4.6 million and $1.1 million,
respectively, under the Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement, representing the upfront
license payment, research and development funding and milestone payments. 

Amgen Inc. (2005 Amgen Agreement)  

On October 14, 2005, we entered into a Collaboration and License Agreement with Amgen for the
development of PDE10 inhibitors for neurological and psychiatric disorders. Under the terms
of the agreement, we received a $5.0 million up-front fee in November 2005 and are receiving
research and development funding as well. We and Amgen are conducting a collaborative
preclinical research program relating to PDE10 inhibitors for a two-year period in accordance
with a predefined research workplan. Subject to Amgen s right to terminate the agreement or
terminate specified rights thereunder, we are entitled to receive (i) $3.3 million in
research funding during the first year of the research collaboration and, (ii) a minimum of
$1.8 million in research funding during the second year of the research collaboration. Amgen
is also obligated to make milestone payments to us upon the achievement of pre-specified
research, development, regulatory approval and sales milestones relating to PDE10 inhibitors. 

We will recognize revenue over the two-year period based on the level of actual research
efforts expended in a period as compared to our estimated efforts over the full period.
During the year ended December 31, 2005, we recognized revenue of $1.2 million representing
the upfront license payment. 

The Stanley Medical Research Institute (SMRI Development Agreement)  

On December 20, 2005, we entered into a development agreement with SMRI for the development
of MEM 1003 as a treatment for bipolar disorder or schizophrenia. Under the terms of the
SMRI Agreement, we are eligible to receive up to $3.2 million in funding from SMRI to support
the development of MEM 1003 for the treatment of bipolar disorder or schizophrenia over the
development term of three years, which term may be extended for additional one-year periods.
As of December 31, 2005, we received $960,000 in exchange for the issuance of 440,367 shares
of our common stock and a warrant to purchase 154,128 shares of our common stock at an
exercise price of $2.62 per share that becomes exercisable on June 17, 2006 and expires on
December 19, 2010. We are eligible to receive the remaining $2.24 million as milestone
payments upon the achievement of certain milestones related to the Phase 2a trial in bipolar
disorder, which we plan to commence in the first half of 2006. If we fail to achieve the
third milestone by December 31, 2007, then we will be required to refund to SMRI the portion
of the $2.24 million of development funding advanced by SMRI as of that date. 

63

12)  
       
      CONSULTING AGREEMENTS  

In April 1998, we entered into a consulting agreement with one of our founders for an initial
term of four years, with the option to automatically extend the term for additional one-year
periods. Under the consulting agreement, we are obligated to pay a consulting fee during
each of the one-year terms. Additionally, we were required to grant additional options to the
consultant upon our issuance of new securities to ensure that the founder maintained a
4.9216% ownership in the Company, which obligation expired upon the completion of our initial
public offering. Upon the closing of our initial public offering, we issued this consultant
an option to purchase 117,187 shares of common stock with an exercise price equal to the
initial public offering price of $7.00, as a result of which we recognized compensation
expense of $437,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004. 

Under this consulting agreement, we had issued an aggregate of 703,255 non-qualified stock
options as of December 31, 2003, including 91,726 at an exercise price of $2.70 per share in
December 2003 and 308,861 at an exercise price of $0.75 per share in April 2002 in connection
with the Series D financing. The options issued in 2003 and 2002 had a fair value of
approximately $1.2 million and $130,000 respectively using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model. The fair value of the options is included as general and administrative expense in
the accompanying statement of operations. 

We have entered into consulting arrangements with research consultants and scientific
advisory board members for various services which generally require us to pay consulting fees
on a monthly or quarterly basis as services are provided. 

13)  
       
      INCOME TAXES  

Our 2005 tax benefit of $216,000 consists of proceeds of $229,000 received for the sale of
$3.2 million of state net operating loss carryforwards, offset by $12,000 in state
alternative minimum taxes. Our 2004 tax benefit of $249,000 consisted of proceeds of
$258,000 received for the sale of $3.6 million of state net operating loss carryforwards,
offset by $9,000 in state alternative minimum taxes. 

Our deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2005, and 2004, respectively, consisted of the
following: 

A valuation allowance for 2005 and 2004 has been applied to offset the respective deferred
tax assets in recognition of the uncertainty that such tax benefits will be realized based on
our history of operating losses. A valuation allowance is provided when we believe it is
more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 

At December 31, 2005, we had available net operating loss carryforwards for federal and state
income tax reporting purposes of approximately $102.5 million and $88.6 million respectively,
and we had available research and development credit carryforwards for federal and state
income tax reporting purposes of approximately $4.2 million and $3.1 million respectively,
that are available to offset future taxable income and tax, if any. The net operating loss
carryforwards begin to expire in 2018 for federal purposes and 2007 for state purposes. The
research and development credit carryforwards begin to expire in 2018 for federal purposes
and 2013 for state purposes. Our ability to use such net operating loss and research and
development credit carryforwards may be limited by change of control provisions under Section
382 of the Internal Revenue Code. 

64

14)  
       
      EQUIPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENTS  

As of December 31, 2005 we financed $10.3 million of equipment purchases through equipment
financing. The interest rate is set at the time of the borrowing. There was $2.4 million
outstanding under this equipment financing agreement as of December 31, 2005. The effective
interest rate on the borrowings as of December 31, 2005 is approximately 11.5% per annum. 

The maturities of the equipment loans vary through 2009 and require monthly payments. A
summary of future principal payments for equipment notes payable at December 31, 2005 is as
follows: 

15)  
       
      RETIREMENT PLAN  

Effective January 1, 1999, we established a 401(k) Retirement Plan (the 401(k) Plan) which
covers substantially all of our employees. All eligible employees may elect to contribute a
portion of their wages to the 401(k) Plan, subject to certain limitations. In 2004, we began
to match 50% of the employee s pre-tax contributions, up to plan limits. For 2005, $202,000
has been charged to operations for the matching feature of the 401(k) plan. 

16)  
       
      COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  

LEASE AGREEMENT 

In June 1999, we entered into a lease agreement for occupancy in our Montvale facility, which
includes laboratory and office space. Pursuant to subsequent amendments to the lease
agreement in 2000, 2001, and 2004, total occupancy space has been increased to approximately
66,200 square feet. Our current lease agreement expires in 2014 with options to renew
thereafter. 

Annual minimum rental payments as of December 31, 2005 are as follows: 

65

EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENTS 

We provide a severance arrangement for our executives and key employees, which include salary
continuance and health benefits for up to one year. 

During 2002, we issued interest free loans to two of our executive officers in the aggregate
amount of $400,000, to enable each to purchase a residence near our facility located in
Montvale, New Jersey. The loans were forgiven over three years based on continued
employment. We paid all income taxes incurred by executives in connection with the
forgiveness of these loans. Compensation expense related to these loans, including the
payment of related taxes of $190,000, was recognized in 2002. As of December 31, 2002, there
was $300,000 outstanding, which was forgiven during 2003, and $547,000 including the payment
of related taxes was recognized as compensation expense in 2003. 

COMMITMENTS 

We have entered into various contract research agreements and supply agreements in connection
with preclinical, Phase 1, and Phase 2 clinical trials of our drug candidates. 

LITIGATION 

There are no legal proceedings pending against us. 

INSURANCE RISKS 

We are exposed to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the development of
drugs. If any of our drug candidates harm participants in our clinical trials, we may be
subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. We have product liability insurance
that covers our clinical trials up to an aggregate of $10.0 million annually, with a
deductible of $25,000 per claim. We believe that this coverage is consistent with industry
practice, but we cannot predict all of the possible harms or side effects that may result
and, therefore, the amount of insurance coverage we currently hold may not be adequate to
cover all liabilities we might incur. If we are sued for any injury allegedly caused by our
drug candidates during clinical trials, our liability could exceed our total assets and our
ability to pay the liability. 

17)  
       
      QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS (UNAUDITED)  

66

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 

Not applicable.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures .

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures  

Based on their evaluation as of December 31, 2005, our Chief Executive Officer and Principal
Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) were effective to
ensure that the information required to be disclosed by us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K was
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules
and Form 10-K.

Change in internal control over financial reporting  

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended
December 31, 2005 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.

Limitations on the effectiveness of controls  

Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance
that the objectives of our disclosure control system are met. Because of inherent limitations in
all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control
issues, if any, within a company have been detected.

Item 9B. Other Information .

Not applicable.

67

PART III 

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant .

The members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers are set forth in the following
table. Our Board of Directors consists of nine members and is divided into three classes. As
provided under his employment agreement, Mr. Sulat was appointed to our Board of Directors on May
17, 2005.

Name 
       
     Age 

Position 

Tony Scullion

54 

Chairman of the Board of Directors 

Anthony B. Evnin, Ph.D (1) (2)(3) 

65 

Director 

Jonathan Fleming (2)(3) 

48 

Director 

Walter Gilbert, Ph.D (1) 

74 

Director 

Robert I. Kriebel (1) 

63 

Director 

Michael E.
Meyers, M.P.H. (2) 

37 

Director 

Peter F. Young (1) 

56 

Director 

James R. Sulat

55 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

David A. Lowe, Ph.D.

59 

Chief Scientific Officer and Director 

Jzaneen Lalani

33 

Vice President, Legal Affairs and Corporate Secretary 

Joseph M. Donabauer

43 

Vice President, Controller and Treasurer 

(1) 
       
     Member of the Audit Committee 

(2) 
       
     Member of the Compensation Committee 

(3) 
       
     Member of the Nominations Committee 

Information Concerning Directors 

Directors Whose Terms Expire in 2006   Class II Directors 

Anthony B. Evnin, Ph.D . has served as one of our directors since December 1998. Since 1975, Dr.
Evnin has served as a general partner of Venrock Associates and other Venrock venture capital
partnerships. Dr. Evnin serves as a director of Coley Pharmaceutical Group, Inc., Icagen, Inc,
Renovis, Inc., and Sunesis Pharmaceuticals Incorporated. Dr. Evnin is also a member of the board
of directors of several private companies. Dr. Evnin holds an A.B. from Princeton University and a
Ph.D. in Chemistry from Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

David A. Lowe, Ph.D . has served as our Chief Scientific Officer since October 2004 and as one of
our directors since April 2005. From 2002 to 2004, Dr. Lowe served as Executive Vice President and
Chief Scientific Officer at Fidelity Biosciences Group, a division of Fidelity Investments, where
he was responsible for evaluating private equity investment opportunities in early- and mid-stage
biopharmaceutical companies, focusing primarily on companies that target central nervous system
diseases. During this time, Dr. Lowe also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of
EnVivo Pharmaceuticals Inc., a drug-discovery company financed by Fidelity Biosciences. From 2000
to 2002, Dr. Lowe served as Vice President and Therapeutic Area Head, Central Nervous System at
Roche Bioscience. From 1995 to 2000, Dr. Lowe served as Vice President and Global Head of Central
Nervous System Research, Pharmaceutical Division at Bayer AG. Dr. Lowe is the author/co-author of
more than fifty scientific publications and is listed as an inventor on several pending patent
applications. Dr. Lowe received his B.Sc. (Hons.) from the University of Bristol in 1967 and his
Ph.D. in Neurobiology from the University of Leeds in 1972.

Peter F. Young  has served as one of our directors since September 2004. Mr. Young has over 25
years experience in senior commercial, general management, and development positions in the global
pharmaceutical industry. Since 1999, Mr. Young has served as President and Chief Executive Officer
of AlphaVax, Inc., a biotechnology company that is developing a vaccine technology. From 1989 to
1999, Mr. Young was with Glaxo Wellcome, where he led the growth of Glaxo s HIV portfolio, first as
Vice-President, HIV   Opportunistic Infection Therapeutic Development   Product Strategy and then
as Vice-President, HIV   Hepatitis, Global Commercial Development. He previously held various
management positions with Abbott International and Glaxo, both internationally and in the US. Mr.
Young currently services on the board of directors of BIO, the national biotechnology industry
organization, and as chairman of NCBIO, North Carolina s life sciences industry association. Mr.
Young holds a B.A. and a Master of Business Administration from Indiana University.

68

Directors Whose Terms Expire in 2007   Class III Directors 

Jonathan J. Fleming  is one of our co-founders and served as the Chairman of our Board of Directors
from January 1998 to May 2005. Mr. Fleming is the Managing Partner of Oxford Bioscience Partners,
a venture capital firm specializing in life science technology. Prior to joining Oxford Bioscience
in 1996, he served as a Founding Partner of MVP Ventures in Boston, Massachusetts. Mr. Fleming is
a member of the board of directors of Imcor Pharmaceutical Co. (formerly Photogen Technologies,
Inc.), a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on developing medical imaging pharmaceutical
products. He is also chairman of the board of directors of BioProcessors Corporation, a
privately-held corporation and is a director of seven other privately-held companies, including
Leerink Swann   Company, a Boston-based investment bank specializing in health care companies. Mr.
Fleming is a Trustee of the Museum of Science in Boston and is a Senior Lecturer at MIT s Sloan
School of Management. Mr. Fleming holds a B.A. from the University of California, Berkeley and a
Master s in Public Administration from Princeton University.

Walter Gilbert, Ph.D . is one of our co-founders and has served as one of our directors and as a
member of our Scientific Advisory Board since our inception. Since 2002, Dr. Gilbert has served as
a managing director and general partner of BioVentures Investors II, a venture capital firm. Since
1985, Dr. Gilbert has also served as the Carl M. Loeb University Professor at Harvard University.
Dr. Gilbert was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1980 for his contributions to the
development of DNA sequencing methodology. He was a founder of Biogen, Inc. and its Chairman and
CEO from 1981 to 1985. Dr. Gilbert was also a co-founder of Myriad Genetics, Inc., where he has
been a director since 1992 and is currently its Vice-Chairman of the board of directors. Dr.
Gilbert also serves as a director of six privately-held companies. He has held professorships at
Harvard University in the departments of Physics, Biophysics, Biology, Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology, and Molecular and Cellular Biology. Among other honors he was elected a Member of the
National Academy of Science in 1976.

Tony Scullion  has served as our Chairman since February 2006 and as one of our directors since
2001. From May 2005 to February 2006, Mr. Scullion served as our Executive Chairman. From
September 2001 to May 2005, Mr. Scullion served as our Chief Executive Officer and from April 2005
to May 2005, as our President and Chief Executive Officer. From 1993 to 2001, Mr. Scullion served
as Vice President and Head, Global Business Development at GlaxoWellcome PLC and its predecessor,
Glaxo PLC. Mr. Scullion served as a member of the Management Committee and the Commercial
Operations Committee at GlaxoWellcome PLC. From 1979 to 1993, Mr. Scullion was at Pfizer Inc. and
his positions included Executive Director, Strategic Planning and Operations, Japan. In addition,
while at Pfizer he led a staff responsible for international pre-launch planning and launch and
post-launch strategic marketing. He also held operational and line management positions with
responsibility for businesses in Asia Pacific and served as the head of the marketing division of
the United Kingdom business. Prior to his position with Pfizer, Mr. Scullion spent four years at
HoechstRoussel AG, which is now part of Sanofi-Aventis, where he held various management positions.
Mr. Scullion started his career with Pfizer Inc. in discovery research. Mr. Scullion holds a
B.Sc. in Physiology from the University of London and a Master s of Science in Pharmacology and is
a Member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing. Mr. Scullion is also a member of the board of
directors of the Biotechnology Council of New Jersey.

Directors Whose Terms Expire in 2008   Class I Directors 

Robert I. Kriebel  has served as one of our directors since December 2004. From 2002 to 2005, Mr.
Kriebel was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Neose Technologies, Inc., a
biopharmaceutical company. From 1991 through 1999, he held various positions at U.S. Bioscience,
Inc., most recently as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Director. From 1974
to 1990, Mr. Kriebel held various positions with Aventis Inc. (formerly Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Inc.).
From 1987 to 1990, he was Vice President and Controller of Armour Pharmaceutical Company, a
subsidiary of Rorer Group Inc. In 1986, Mr. Kriebel was Vice President-Investor Relations of Rorer
Group Inc. and from 1979 to 1985, he was Treasurer of Rorer Group Inc. Mr. Kriebel has a B.S. in
economics from Roanoke College.

Michael E. Meyers, M.P.H . has served as one of our directors since March 2002. Mr. Meyers has
served as a Managing Partner of Trivium Capital Management LLC, a money management firm in New York
since May 2002. From 2000 to 2003, Mr. Meyers served as a Managing Director and Partner of Global
Biomedical Partners, a life sciences venture capital firm. From 1997 to 2000, Mr. Meyers served as
Director, Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Investment Banking at Merrill Lynch   Co. From 1993 to
1997, Mr. Meyers served as Vice President, Health Care Investment Banking at Cowen   Company. Mr.
Meyers holds an A.B. in Biology from Brandeis University and a Master of Public Health in Health
Policy and Management with Highest Honors from Columbia University.

James R. Sulat  has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as one of our directors
since May 2005. From May 2003 to February 2004, Mr. Sulat was the Senior Executive Vice President
of Moore Wallace Incorporated. Following the acquisition of Moore Wallace by R.R. Donnelley and
Sons Company in February 2004, Mr. Sulat became Chief Financial Officer of R.R. Donnelley and
served in this position until May 2004. From 1998 to 2003, Mr. Sulat served as Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of

69

Chiron Corporation, a major biotechnology company, where his responsibilities included business
development and investor relations, in addition to the financial management functions of the
company. From 1993 to 1997, Mr. Sulat was the Chief Financial Officer of Stanford Health Services,
the clinical healthcare delivery arm of the Stanford University Medical Center. In November 1997,
Stanford Health Services merged with the clinical care facilities of the University of California,
San Francisco, and Mr. Sulat served as the Treasurer of the merged entity, UCSF Stanford Health
Care, until joining Chiron Corporation. Mr. Sulat is a director of Maxygen, Inc., a developer of
protein therapeutics, and Intercell AG, a developer of vaccines for the prevention and treatment of
major infectious diseases that is listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange. Mr. Sulat holds a B.S. from
Yale University, an MBA from Stanford University and an M.S. in health services administration from
Stanford University.

Information Concerning Executive Officers 

Jzaneen Lalani  has served as our Vice President, Legal Affairs since June 2004. From February
2003 to May 2004, Ms. Lalani was a member of the Corporate and Commercial Law Group at Kronish Lieb
Weiner   Hellman LLP, where she worked with privately held and publicly traded companies on
transactions including mergers and acquisitions, financings and securities offerings. From October
1999 to February 2003, Ms. Lalani was a member of the Business   Technology Group at Brobeck
Phleger   Harrison LLP, where her practice also included
representing emerging growth companies and
newly-public companies. Ms. Lalani received a B.Sc. in 1993 from Queen s University in Ontario,
a LL.B. in 1996 from the University of Victoria, in British Columbia,
and a Master of
International Affairs and a Masters of Law from Columbia University in 1999. Ms. Lalani is
admitted to the British Columbia Bar and the New York Bar.

Joseph M. Donabauer  has served as our Vice President and Controller and Principal Financial Officer
since December 2004. Since May 2002, he has served as our Controller and since December 2003, he
has served as our Principal Accounting Officer. From February 1999 to January 2002, Mr. Donabauer
held senior financial management positions at Genzyme Biosurgery (formerly Biomatrix Incorporated),
including Controller of the New Jersey operations. Prior to joining Genzyme, Mr. Donabauer held
financial management positions at General Signal (now SPX Corp.), Hoffman-La Roche and Reckitt  
Colman (now Reckitt Benckiser).

Audit Committee and Audit Committee Financial Expert 

We have an Audit Committee, currently comprised of Messrs. Kriebel (Chairman) and Young and Drs.
Gilbert and Evnin. Our Board of Directors has determined that each of the members of the Audit
Committee is an  independent director  as defined in Rule 4200(a)(15) of the National Association
of Securities Dealers  listing standards and that Mr. Kriebel is an  audit committee financial
expert,  as such term is defined in Item 401(h) of Regulation S-K.

Procedure for Submission of Director Nominees by Stockholders 

The Nominating Committee s policy is to consider prospective director nominations properly
submitted by a stockholder. Our By-laws provide that any stockholder of record
who is entitled to vote for the election of directors may nominate persons for election as
directors only if timely, written notice in proper form is received by our Corporate Secretary at
our principal executive offices at 100 Philips Parkway, Montvale, New Jersey 07645. To be timely
and in proper form under our Amended and Restated By-laws, the notice must be received in writing
by our Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices no later than the date which is 90
calendar days prior to the anniversary date of the preceding year s annual meeting, nor earlier
than the date which is 120 calendar days prior to the anniversary date. The stockholder s notice
must contain prescribed information about the proponent and each prospective director nominee,
including such information about each prospective director nominee as would have been required to
be included in a proxy solicitation pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, had the prospective director nominee been nominated by the Board of Directors.

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance 

Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires our officers and directors, and
persons who beneficially own more than ten percent of a registered class of our equity securities
to file reports of beneficial ownership of common stock (Forms 3, 4, and 5) with the SEC.
Officers, directors, and greater-than-ten percent stockholders are required to furnish us with
copies of all such forms that they file.

To our knowledge, based solely on our review of the copies of Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments
thereto, received by us during or with respect to the year ended December 31, 2005, all filings
applicable to our officers, directors, greater-than-ten percent stockholders and other persons
subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, were timely, except that one Form 4
reporting a stock option grant to Dr. Lowe was inadvertently filed late.

70

Code of Ethics 

We have adopted a  code of ethics  as defined by applicable rules of the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock
Market, which is applicable to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer/controller and other senior financial and reporting persons and our
directors. This code is publicly available on our website at www.memorypharma.com under the
 Investors   Code of Ethics  captions. If we make any amendments to the code of ethics for our
senior officers, financial and reporting persons or directors (other than technical,
administrative, or other non-substantive amendments), or grant any waivers, including implicit
waivers, from a provision of this code to such persons, we will disclose the nature of the
amendment or waiver, its effective date and to whom it applies on our website or in a report on
Form 8-K filed with the SEC.

Item 11. Executive Compensation .

SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE 

The following table provides certain
summary information concerning the compensation earned for each of the last three years by our
current President   Chief Executive Officer, our former Chief Executive Officer and each of our
four other most highly compensated executive officers who were serving as executive officers as
of December 31, 2005. We refer to the executive officers (and former executive officers) listed
in the table below collectively as our "Named Executive Officers."

* 
       
     Unless otherwise noted, amounts in the  Bonus  column generally represent bonuses
attributable to performance in the stated fiscal year. Bonuses are paid in the next following
fiscal year. 

(1) 
       
     Mr. Scullion served as our Chief Executive Officer until May 17, 2005 and then as our
Executive Chairman through February 17, 2006. Since February 17, 2006, Mr. Scullion has
served as Chairman of our Board of Directors. 

(2) 
       
     Represents $9,467 in employer-paid disability insurance premiums, $10,714 in an automobile
allowance, $12,385 in employer-paid tax preparation fees, and $6,150 in matching contributions
under our 401(k) plan. 

(3) 
       
     Represents insurance premiums for a life insurance policy. 

71

(4) 
       
     Represents $9,467 in employer-paid disability insurance premiums, $13,859 in an automobile
allowance, $10,930 in employer-paid tax preparation fees, and $6,150 in matching contributions
under our 401(k) plan. 

(5) 
       
     Represents $200,000 in loan forgiveness, $156,824 in tax payment reimbursements, $9,467 in
employer-paid disability insurance premiums, and $10,800 in an automobile allowance. In
January 2003, Mr. Scullion was issued a stock award of 8,333 shares of common stock that was
valued at $6,250. 

(6) 
       
     Mr. Sulat s employment with us commenced in May 2005. 

(7) 
       
     Represents matching contributions under our 401(k) plan. 

(8) 
       
     Dr. Lowe s employment with us commenced in October 2004. 

(9) 
       
     Represents $40,340 for reimbursement of relocation and temporary housing expenses and a
$13,307 gross-up payment for taxes incurred by Dr. Lowe in connection with this reimbursement. 

(10) 
       
     Includes a one-time bonus of $50,000, as set forth in Dr. Lowe s letter agreement of
employment. 

(11) 
       
     Represents $58,418 for reimbursement of relocation and temporary housing expenses and a
$25,037 gross-up payment for taxes incurred by Dr. Lowe in connection with this reimbursement. 

(12) 
       
     From January 2002 to May 2005, Mr. Smith served as our Vice President of Business Development. Thereafter, Mr. Smith served as our Chief Business Officer.
Mr. Smith resigned as our Chief Business Officer effective March 3, 2006. 

(13) 
       
     Represents employer-paid disability insurance premiums. 

(14) 
       
     On the effective date of Mr. Smith s resignation we cancelled the unvested portion of these
stock options, which represented stock options to purchase an aggregate of 63,126 shares of
our common stock and the unvested portion of the stock options granted to Mr. Smith in prior years. 

(15) 
       
     Ms. Lalani s employment with us commenced in June 2004. 

(16) 
       
     Mr. Donabauer became an executive officer in December 2003. 

STOCK OPTION INFORMATION FOR THE YEAR-ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 

The following table provides summary information concerning the individual grants of stock
options to purchase shares of our common stock to each of our Named Executive Officers for the year
ended December 31, 2005. Options granted before April 8, 2004 were granted under our 1998 Equity
Plan and options granted after April 8, 2004 were granted under our 2004 Plan. The exercise price
of options granted under our 1998 Equity Plan was established by our Board of Directors on the date
of grant, and each option was issued at the estimated fair market value on the date of the grant
based upon a number of considerations, including the pricing of private sales of our equity
securities, company-specific events, economic trends, the then current financing environment and
the rights and preferences of our preferred stock relative to our common stock. The exercise price
of options granted under our 2004 Plan was the fair market value of our common
stock on the date of grant.

72

STOCK OPTION GRANTS DURING YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 

(1) 
       
     During the year ended December 31, 2005, we granted our employees stock options to
purchase an aggregate of 1,879,750 shares of our common stock. 

(2) 
       
     The potential realizable value is calculated based upon the term of the
option at its time of grant. It is calculated assuming that the stock price on the
date of grant appreciates at the indicated annual rate, compounded annually for the
entire term of the option, and that the option is exercised and sold on the last day
of its term for the appreciated stock price. SEC rules specify the 5% and 10% assumed
annual rates of compounded stock price appreciation, which do not represent our
estimate or projection of our future common stock prices. Actual gains, if any, on
stock option exercises depend on the future performance of our common stock and
overall stock market conditions. The amounts reflected in the table above may not
necessarily be achieved. 

(3) 
       
     On the effective date of Mr. Smith s resignation, we cancelled the unvested
portion of the stock options that Mr. Smith was granted in 2005, which represented stock options to purchase 54,375
shares of our common stock. 

AGGREGATED STOCK OPTION EXERCISES IN LAST FISCAL YEAR 

AND FISCAL YEAR-END STOCK OPTION VALUES 

The following table provides information as of December 31, 2005 concerning the number and
value of exercised and unexercised stock options held by each of our Named Executive Officers.

(1) 
       
     The value realized was calculated based on the market price of the purchased shares
on the exercise date, less the applicable option exercise price per share, multiplied by
the number of shares underlying the option. 

(2) 
       
     The value of unexercised in-the-money options was calculated based on the closing
selling price per share of our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market on December
31, 2005, $2.28, less the option exercise price per share, multiplied by the number of
shares underlying the option. 

(3) 
       
     On the effective date of Mr. Smith s resignation,
we cancelled the unvested portion of the stock options granted to
Mr. Smith since he commenced employment with us, which represented stock options to purchase 69,064 shares
of our common stock. 

73

Director Compensation 

The non-employee members of our Board of Directors are reimbursed for travel, lodging and other
reasonable expenses incurred in attending Board or committee meetings. In addition, our
non-employee directors receive cash compensation for their service on the Board and its committees
as described below. All quarterly fees are payable at the end of each calendar quarter.

Board of Directors 

Each of our non-employee directors receives a quarterly fee of $3,000.
Through May 17, 2005 (the date Mr. Scullion was appointed Executive Chairman), our non-employee Chairman
received an additional $3,000 per calendar quarter. Each of our non-employee directors also receives $1,000
for each regular or special Board of Directors' meeting attended by such director in person, or $500
for each regular or special Board of Directors' meeting attended by such director by teleconference.

Audit Committee 

In addition to receiving fees for service as a
director, each member of the Audit Committee receives $2,500 per calendar quarter and the Chairman of our
Audit Committee also receives $5,000 per calendar quarter. Each member of the Audit Committee also receives
$2,000 for each regular or special Audit Committee meeting attended by such member in person, or $1,000 for
each regular or special Audit Committee meeting attended by such member by teleconference.

Compensation Committee 

In addition to receiving fees for service as a
director, each member of the Compensation Committee receives $625 per calendar quarter and the Chairman of
our Compensation Committee also receives $2,500 per calendar quarter. Each member of the Compensation Committee
also receives $1,000 for each regular or special Compensation Committee meeting attended by such member in
person, or $500 for each regular or special Compensation Committee meeting attended by such member by
teleconference.

Nominations
Committee 

In addition to receiving fees for service as a
director, each member of the Nominations Committee receives an additional $250 per calendar quarter and the
Chairman of our Nominations Committee also receives $1,250 per calendar quarter. Each member of the
Nominations Committee also receives $500 for each regular or special Nominations Committee meeting attended
by such member in person, or $250 for each regular or special Nominations Committee meeting attended by such
member by teleconference.

Option Grants 

Our 2004 Plan provides a Formula Option Grant program for non-employee directors. Pursuant to this
program, upon joining our Board of Directors, a non-employee director receives a stock option grant
to purchase 20,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price equal to the fair market value
on that date (the  Initial Grant ). The Initial Grant vests over three years, with the first 33%
vesting on the first anniversary of the grant date and the remainder vesting every three months
thereafter. In addition, on the date of each annual meeting of our
stockholders, our non-employee directors receive an additional automatic stock option
grant to purchase 10,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price equal to the fair market
value on that date (the  Subsequent Grant ), if the non-employee director has served on our Board of
Directors for at least six months prior to such date. The Subsequent
Grant will vest in one installment on the first anniversary of the grant date.

74

Each director who served as such on the
effective date of our initial public offering, automatically received a stock option grant to purchase
20,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $8.40 per share, the fair market value of our
common stock on that date. The stock option vests over three years, with one-third of the shares of common
stock subject to the stock option vesting on the first anniversary of the grant date and the remainder
vesting every three months thereafter.

Executive Employment Agreements 

We have employment agreements with each of Tony Scullion, James R. Sulat, David A. Lowe, Ph.D.,
Joseph M. Donabauer, and Jzaneen Lalani. Our employment agreement with Mr. Smith terminated on the effective date of his resignation.
A summary of the material terms of our agreements with
our Named Executive Officers and our other executive officers is provided below.

Tony Scullion 

Our original employment agreement with Mr. Scullion, which was entered into on July 2, 2001, was
superseded by a new employment agreement in February 2006. Under the original agreement, Mr.
Scullion was entitled to an initial base salary of $350,000 per year, and received a one-time
signing bonus of $100,000, a one-time payment of $40,000 to reimburse his former employer for costs
associated with a life insurance policy on his life payable to his designated beneficiaries and an
initial stock option grant of 367,133 shares of our common stock, which vested quarterly over four
years. Under the original agreement, Mr. Scullion was eligible to receive annual bonus payments
which depend on our performance and his individual performance, in each case as determined by our
Board of Directors. We also paid the current premium of approximately $14,000 per year on a life
insurance policy on Mr. Scullion s life payable to his designated beneficiaries. If Mr. Scullion s
employment had been terminated without cause or if he had terminated his employment with good
reason, he would have been entitled to receive 12 months  severance, based on his current base
salary, payable over the 12-month period following termination, plus continued health coverage for
one year (less, during the last six months, any amounts earned for services rendered by Mr.
Scullion to, and any health insurance otherwise available through, a new employer). In addition,
upon any such termination of employment, he would have been entitled to accelerated vesting of 25%
of his then-unvested stock options.

In February 2006, we entered into an Employment Agreement with Mr. Scullion, which supersedes Mr.
Scullion s prior employment agreement, as amended, dated July 2, 2001. Under this agreement, which
expires on January 31, 2007, unless renewed upon the agreement of both parties, Mr. Scullion will
devote an average of approximately eight to twelve hours per week to the Company. Mr. Scullion s
salary will be at the gross semi-monthly rate of approximately $8,333. Under the terms of the
Agreement, Mr. Scullion has agreed to tender his resignation from the our Board of Directors
immediately upon the earliest to occur of (i) the conclusion of the term of the agreement, (ii) the
termination of his employment by him, or (iii) the termination of his employment by us with Cause
(as defined in the Employment Agreement). In the event Mr. Scullion s employment is terminated by
us without Cause, then, at the request of the Board of Directors, he will resign his position as
the Chairman. During the term of the agreement, Mr. Scullion will be entitled to standard employee
benefits and in addition, we will continue to (i) reimburse Mr. Scullion for all reasonable home
office expenses, (ii) pay the premium, in the approximate amount of $14,530, relating to Mr.
Scullion s existing life insurance policy, and (iii) reimburse Mr. Scullion for tax preparation
services for the 2005 and 2006 tax years in an amount up to $12,000 per year. Under certain
circumstances we will also extend the post-termination exercise period of Mr. Scullion s
then-vested stock options. We or Mr. Scullion may terminate the employment relationship during the
term of the agreement upon thirty days  written notice. In the event Mr. Scullion is terminated by
us without Cause, he will continue to receive the balance of his base salary plus health coverage
(unless such coverage is provided through a new employer), the life insurance payment and the tax
preparation payments. If Mr. Scullion is terminated with Cause during the term of the agreement,
he will not be eligible for any further compensation or paid benefit continuation.

James R. Sulat 

We have an employment letter agreement with Mr. Sulat that has an unspecified term. Under this
agreement, Mr. Sulat is entitled to an initial base salary of $395,000 per year. The agreement
also specifies that Mr. Sulat would be elected to our Board of Directors as soon as reasonably
practicable following his start date with the Company. As provided in the letter agreement, Mr.
Sulat received stock option grants to purchase an aggregate of 1,025,000 shares of our common stock
which vest over the four-year period following the date of grant of each stock option. Under the
letter agreement, Mr. Sulat is also eligible to receive annual bonus payments which depend on our
performance and his individual performance, in each case as determined by our Board of Directors.
Mr. Sulat s target bonus is 35% of his base salary. In the event that we terminate Mr. Sulat s
employment without cause or he terminates his employment for good reason, he is entitled to receive
12 months  severance, based on his then-current base salary, payable over the 12-month period
following termination, plus continued medical and dental coverage for one year. In addition, upon
any such termination of employment, he will be entitled to receive the average of his annual
bonuses for the three prior years (or such shorter period if he has not been employed by us for
three years) in twelve equal monthly installments and accelerated vesting of 25% of his

75

then-unvested stock options. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Mr. Sulat s unvested stock options
will become fully vested if, within three months prior to, or within 18 months after, a Change in
Control (as defined in the letter agreement), (x) we terminate Mr. Sulat s employment without cause
or (y) Mr. Sulat terminates his employment within three months after (i) a material diminution in
his responsibilities, (ii) he no longer reports to the Board of Directors or ceases to be a member
of the Board of Directors, (iii) his principal work location changes by more than 50 miles from our
current principal offices, or (iv) we reduce his base salary. Any nonstatutory stock options held
by Mr. Sulat will remain exercisable until the later to occur of (i) 90 days after the date of
termination and (ii) January 15 of the calendar year immediately succeeding the date of
termination.

David A. Lowe, Ph.D. 

We have an employment letter agreement with Dr. Lowe that has an unspecified term. Under this
agreement, Dr. Lowe is entitled to an initial base salary of $330,000, a one-time bonus of $50,000
(the  One-time Bonus ) to be paid within 30 days following Dr. Lowe s commencement of employment
with us and an initial stock option grant for 150,000 shares of our common stock, vesting over two
years in quarterly installments. In the first quarter of 2005, Dr. Lowe received an additional
stock option grant for 100,000 shares of our common stock, which will vest over four years in
quarterly installments. Dr. Lowe is also entitled to receive annual bonus payments that depend on
our performance and his individual performance, in each case as determined by our Board of
Directors. In the event that we terminate Dr. Lowe s employment without cause, he is entitled to
receive 12 months  severance, based on his then-current base salary, payable over the 12-month
period following termination, plus continued health coverage for one year (less, during the last
six months, any amounts earned for services rendered by Dr. Lowe to, and any health insurance
otherwise available through, a new employer). Under this agreement Dr. Lowe is entitled to
reimbursement for relocation expenses up to $150,000, including a gross-up payment for taxes
incurred by him in connection with this payment (the  Relocation Allowance ). If Dr. Lowe resigns
or we terminate his employment for Cause (as defined in the employment letter agreement) within
eighteen months of his start date with us, he will be required to repay the One-time Bonus and the
Relocation Allowance.

Gardiner F.H. Smith 

We had an employment agreement with Mr. Smith, which terminated on the effective date of Mr.
Smith s resignation. Under that agreement, Mr. Smith was entitled to an initial base salary of
$195,000, a one-time signing bonus of $25,000, an initial stock option grant for 46,666 shares of
our common stock, which vested over four years in quarterly installments, and an additional stock
option grant to purchase 45,000 shares of our common stock, which also vests in quarterly
installments over four years. Mr. Smith was also entitled to receive annual bonus payments that
depended on our performance and his individual performance, in each case as determined by our Board
of Directors. Under this agreement, we reimbursed Mr. Smith for $100,000 of expenses related to
relocation, including a gross-up payment for taxes incurred by him in connection with this payment.

Jzaneen Lalani 

We have an employment agreement with Ms. Lalani that has an unspecified term. Under this
agreement, Ms. Lalani is entitled to an initial base salary of $190,000 and an initial stock option
grant for 50,000 shares of our common stock, vesting over four years in quarterly installments.
Ms. Lalani is also entitled to receive annual bonus payments that depend on our performance and her
individual performance, in each case, as determined by our Board of Directors. In the event that
we terminate Ms. Lalani s employment without cause, she is entitled to receive 12 months 
severance, based on her then-current base salary, payable over the 12-month period following
termination, plus continued health coverage for one year (less, during the last six months, any
amounts earned for services rendered by Ms. Lalani to, and any health insurance otherwise available
through, a new employer).

Joseph M. Donabauer 

We have an employment agreement with Mr. Donabauer that has an unspecified term. Under this
agreement, Mr. Donabauer is entitled to an initial base salary of $180,000. Mr. Donabauer is also
entitled to receive annual bonus payments that depend on our performance and his individual
performance, in each case, as determined by our Board of Directors. In the event that we terminate
Mr. Donabauer s employment without cause, he is entitled to receive 12 months  severance, based on
his then-current base salary, payable over the 12-month period following termination, plus
continued health coverage for one year (less, during the last six months, any amounts earned for
services rendered by Mr. Donabauer to, and any health insurance otherwise available through, a new
employer).

76

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation 

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors was
comprised of the following members: Messrs. Fleming and Meyers and Dr. Evnin. During the year
ended December 31, 2005, no interlocking relationship existed between the members of our
Compensation Committee and the board of directors or compensation committee of any other company.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters .

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 

The following table sets forth information known to us with respect to the beneficial
ownership of our common stock as of March 15, 2006 by (1) each of our directors, (2) each of our
Named Executive Officers, (3) all of our directors and executive officers as a group, and (4) each
person (or group of affiliated persons) known by us to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of
our common stock.

Beneficial ownership and percentage ownership are determined in accordance with the rules of the
SEC. This information does not necessarily indicate beneficial ownership for any other purpose.
Under these rules, the number of shares of common stock deemed outstanding includes shares issuable
upon exercise of stock options and warrants held by the respective person or group, which may be
exercised or converted within 60 days of March 15, 2006. For purposes of calculating each person s
or group s percentage ownership, stock options and warrants exercisable within 60 days of March 15,
2006 are included for that person or group, but not the stock options or warrants of any other
person or group. Percentage of beneficial ownership is based on 37,758,140 shares of common stock
outstanding as of March 15, 2006.

Unless otherwise indicated and subject to applicable community property laws, to our knowledge,
each stockholder named in the following table possesses sole voting and investment power over the
shares listed, except for those jointly owned with that person s spouse. Unless otherwise noted
below, the address of each person listed on the table is c/o Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp., 100
Philips Parkway, Montvale, New Jersey 07645.

77

(2) 
       
     Includes 13,300 shares of common stock issuable to Mr. Fleming upon the exercise of
options vested as of 60 days following March 15, 2006. Also
includes 2,546,071 shares of common stock owned by Oxford
Bioscience Partners II Entities and 3,552,630 shares of
common stock owned by Oxford Biosciences
Partners IV Entities.  See  footnotes 13 and 14. 

(3) 
       
     Includes 13,300 shares of common stock issuable to Walter Gilbert, Ph.D. upon the exercise
of options vested as of 60 days following March 15, 2006. Also includes 66,666 shares of
common stock issued to Dr. Gilbert, 66,666 shares of common stock issued to Celia Gilbert, the
wife of Dr. Gilbert and 52,632 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 18,421 shares
of common stock issued to a charitable remainder trust of which Dr. Gilbert and his spouse are
the trustees and the beneficiaries. 

(4) 
       
     Includes 5,000 shares of common stock issued to Robert I. Kriebel, 8,275 shares of common
stock issuable to Mr. Kriebel upon the exercise of options vested as of 60 days following
March 15, 2006 and warrants to purchase 1,750 shares of common stock. 

(5) 
       
     Includes 26,316 shares of common stock issued to David A. Lowe, Ph.D., 175,624 shares of
common stock issuable to Dr. Lowe upon the exercise of options vested as of 60 days following
March 15, 2006 and warrants to purchase 9,210 shares of common stock. 

(6) 
       
     Includes 26,316 shares of common stock issued to Michael E. Meyers, 13,300 shares of
common stock issuable to Mr. Meyers upon the exercise of options vested as of 60 days
following March 15, 2006 and warrants to purchase 9,210 shares of common stock. 

(7) 
       
     Includes 2,139 shares of common stock issued to James R. Sulat, 223,437 shares of common
stock issuable to Mr. Sulat upon the exercise of options vested as of 60 days following March
15, 2006, and 157,895 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 55,263 shares of common
stock issued to a revocable trust of which Mr. Sulat and his spouse are the trustees and the
members of Mr. Sulat s immediate family are the beneficiaries. 

(8) 
       
     Includes 178,030 shares of common stock issued to Tony Scullion, currently exercisable
options to purchase 573,853 shares of common stock issuable to Mr. Scullion upon the exercise
of options vested as of 60 days following March 15, 2006 and warrants to purchase 13,815
shares of common stock. 

(9) 
       
     Represents shares of common stock issuable to Peter F. Young upon the exercise of options
vested as of 60 days following March 15, 2006. 

(10) 
       
     Represents 158,601 shares of common stock issuable to Gardiner F.H. Smith upon the
exercise of options vested as of 60 days following March 15, 2006. Mr. Smith resigned as our
Chief Business Officer effective March 3, 2006. All of Mr. Smith s unexercised options will
expire on June 3, 2006. 

(11) 
       
     Includes 3,613 shares of common stock issued to Jzaneen Lalani and 45,625 shares of
common stock issuable to Ms. Lalani upon the exercise of options vested as of 60 days
following March 15, 2006. 

(12) 
       
     Includes 3,018 shares of common stock issued to Joseph M. Donabauer and 32,481 shares of
common stock issuable to Mr. Donabauer upon the exercise of options vested as of 60 days
following March 15, 2006. 

(13) 
       
     Includes: Messrs. Fleming, Kriebel, Meyers, Scullion, Sulat, Young and Donabauer, and
Drs. Evnin, Gilbert and Lowe, and Ms. Lalani. 

(14) 
       
     Based on a Schedule 13G/A filed with the SEC on February 14, 2006 (the  Oxford 13G )
by Oxford Bioscience Partners II L.P. ( OBP II ), Oxford Bioscience Partners (Adjunct) II L.P.
( OBP Adjunct II ), Oxford Bioscience Partners (GS-Adjunct) II L.P. ( OBP GS-Adjunct II ),
Oxford Bioscience Partners II (Annex) L.P. ( OBP Annex II ), Oxford Bioscience Partners
(Bermuda) II Limited Partnership ( OBP Bermuda II ), OBP Management (Bermuda) II Limited
Partnership ( OBP Management Bermuda II ), OBP Management (Bermuda) II Ltd. ( OBP Bermuda II
Ltd. ), and OBP Management II L.P. ( OBP Management II , together with OBP II, OBP Adjunct II,
GS-Adjunct II L.P., OBP Annex II, OBP Bermuda II, OBP Management Bermuda II, OBP Bermuda II
Ltd., the  Oxford II Entities ), OBP II holds 357,715 shares of common stock, OBP Bermuda II
holds 267,844 shares of common stock, OBP Adjunct II holds 100,306 shares of common stock, OBP
GS-Adjunct II holds 352,679 shares of common stock and OBP Annex II holds 1,283,317 shares of
common stock and warrants to purchase 184,210 shares of common stock. By virtue of their
relationship as affiliated limited partnerships, whose sole general partners share individual
general partners, OBP II, OBP Adjunct II, OBP GS-Adjunct II, OBP Annex II and OBP Bermuda II
may be 

78

deemed to share voting power and the power to direct the disposition of the shares of common
stock which each partnership holds. OBP Management II (as the general partner of OBP II, OBP
Adjunct II, OBP GS-Adjunct II and OBP Annex II) and OBP Management Bermuda II (as the general
partner of OBP Bermuda II) may also be deemed to own beneficially the shares of OBP II, OBP
Adjunct II, OBP GS-Adjunct II, OBP Annex II and OBP Bermuda II. OBP Bermuda II Ltd., as the
corporate general partner of OBP Management Bermuda II, may also be deemed to own beneficially
the shares of OBP II, OBP Adjunct II, OBP GS-Adjunct II, OBP Annex II and OBP Bermuda II.
Messrs. Fleming, Edmund M. Olivier, Cornelius T. Ryan and Alan G. Walton (the  Individual
General Partners ) are general partners of both OBP Management II and OBP Management Bermuda
II. Therefore each of the Individual General Partners may be deemed to beneficially own the
shares held by OBP II, OBP Adjunct II, OBP GS-Adjunct II, OBP Annex II and OBP Bermuda II;
however, each Individual General Partner and each of the entities disclaims beneficial
ownership of these shares except any shares held directly of record. The Oxford II Entities
and the Individual General Partners (with the exception of Mr. Olivier and Mr. Walton) are
located at 222 Berkeley Street, Suite 1650, Boston, MA 02116. Mr. Olivier s address is 650
Town Center Drive, Costa Mesa, CA 92626. Mr. Walton s address is 315 Post Road West,
Westport, CT 06880. 

(15) 
       
     Based on a Schedule 13D filed on October 4, 2005 (the  Oxford 13D ) by Oxford
Bioscience Partners IV L.P. ( Oxford IV ) and mRNA Fund II L.P. ( mRNA II ), OBP Management IV
L.P. ( OBP IV , together with Oxford IV and mRNA II, the  Oxford IV Entities ), and Jeffery T.
Barnes, Mark P. Carthy, Michael E. Lytton and Messrs. Fleming and Walton (each a  General
Partner  and collectively the  General Partners ), OBP IV holds 2,605,437 shares of common
stock and warrants to purchase 911,902 shares of common stock and mRNA II holds 26,142 shares
of common stock and warrants to purchase 9,149 shares of common stock. By virtue of their
relationship as affiliated limited partnerships which share a sole general partner (OBP IV),
Oxford IV and mRNA II may be deemed to share voting power and the power to direct the
disposition of the shares of common stock which each partnership owns of record. OBP IV, as
the general partner of Oxford IV and mRNA II, may also be deemed to own beneficially the
shares of Oxford IV and mRNA II. The General Partners may also be deemed to own beneficially
the shares held by Oxford IV and mRNA II. Oxford IV, OBP IV and the General Partners
expressly disclaim beneficial ownership of the shares held by mRNA II, except to the extent of
their respective pecuniary interest therein, and mRNA II, OBP IV, and the General Partners
expressly disclaim beneficial ownership of the shares held by Oxford IV, except to the extent
of their respective pecuniary interest therein. The Oxford IV Entities and the General
Partners (excluding Mr. Walton) are located at 222 Berkeley Street, Suite 1650, Boston, MA
02116. Mr. Walton s address is 315 Post Road West, Westport, CT 06880. 

(16) 
       
     Based on a Schedule 13D filed with the SEC on October 4, 2005 (the  Venrock 13D ) by
Venrock Associates ( Venrock ), Venrock Associates II, L.P. ( Venrock II ), and Venrock
Entrepreneurs Fund, L.P. ( Entrepreneurs Fund , together with Venrock and Venrock II, the
 Venrock Entities ), Venrock owns 859,207 shares and warrants to purchase 113,289 shares of
common stock, Venrock II owns 1,213,190 shares and warrants to purchase 163,026 shares of
common stock and Entrepreneurs Fund owns 14,233 shares of our common stock. According to the
Venrock 13D, Venrock Management LLC ( Management ) is the general partner of Entrepreneurs
Fund and a general partner of Venrock and Venrock II. The members of Management are Anthony
B. Evnin, Ph.D. and Messrs. Michael C. Brooks, Eric S. Copeland, Bryan E. Roberts, Ray A.
Rothrock, Anthony Sun and Michael F. Tyrrell (each a  Managing Member  and collectively, the
 Managing Members ). According to the Venrock 13D, each Managing Member is also a general
partner of each of Venrock and Venrock II. Each of the Venrock Entities has the sole power to
dispose or direct the disposition of the common stock, shared power to vote or to direct the
vote of 2,086,630 shares of common stock and shared power to direct the disposition of
2,086,630 shares of the common stock. Management may be deemed to beneficially own the shares
owned by Entrepreneurs Fund and the Managing Members may be deemed to beneficially own the
shares owned by the Venrock Entities; however, each Venrock Entity and each Managing Member
disclaims beneficial ownership of these shares except to the extent of his or its
proportionate pecuniary interests therein. Venrock Associates is located at 30 Rockefeller
Plaza, New York, New York 10112. 

(17) 
       
     Based on a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 15, 2006 (the  Marxe/Greenhouse
13G ), Austin W. Marxe ( Marxe ) and David M. Greenhouse ( Greenhouse ). Marxe and Greenhouse
share sole voting and investment power over (i) 421,053 shares of common stock and warrants to
purchase 147,368 shares of common stock held by Special Situations Cayman Fund, L.P.
( Cayman ), (ii) 135,732 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 47,506 shares of
common stock held by Special Situations Fund III, L.P. ( SSF3 ), (iii) 1,548,479 shares of
common stock and warrants to purchase 541,967 common stock owned by Special Situations Fund
III QP. ( SSFQP ), (iii) 789,474 shares of common stock and 276,315 warrants held by Special
Situations Private Equity Fund, L.P. ( SSPE ), and (iv) 285,725 shares of common stock and
warrants to purchase 92,105 shares of common stock held by Special Situations Life Sciences
Fund ( SSLS  together with SSF3, SSFQP, Cayman, and SSPE, the  Special Situations Funds ).
Marxe and Greenhouse are the controlling principals of AWM Investment Company, Inc. ( AWM ),
the general partner of and investment adviser to Cayman. AWM also serves as the general
partner of MGP Advisers Limited Partnership ( MGP ), the general partner of and investment
adviser to SSF3 and 

79

SSFQP. Marxe and Greenhouse are members of MG Advisers L.L.C. ( MG ), the general partner of
and investment adviser to Special Situations Private Equity Fund, L.P. ( SSPE ). Marxe and
Greenhouse are also members of LS Advisers L.L.C. ( LS ), the general partner of and
investment adviser to SSLS. Through their control of AWM, MGP, and LS, Messrs. The principal
business address for Marxe and Greenhouse is 527 Madison Avenue, Suite 2600, New York, NY
10022. 

(18) 
       
     Based on a Schedule 13G/A filed with the SEC on February 14, 2006, by Michael A. Roth
( Roth ) and Brian J. Stark ( Stark ), Roth and Stark are the Managing Members of Stark
Offshore Management, LLC ( Stark Offshore ), which acts as investment manager and has sole
power to direct the management of SF Capital. Through Stark Offshore, Roth and Stark possess
voting and dispositive power over 1,463,709 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase
552,631 shares of common stock, which are held by SF Capital Partners Ltd. ( SF Capital 
however, Roth and Stark disclaim beneficial ownership of these shares and warrants. The
principal business address for Roth and Stark is 3600 South Lake Drive, St. Francis, WI 53235. 

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 

For information regarding securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Item 5.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions .

Other than as set forth below, during the last fiscal year, there has not been any transaction
or series of similar transactions to which we were or are a party in which the amount involved
exceeded or exceeds $60,000 and in which any of our directors or executive officers, any holder of
more than 5% of any class of our voting securities or any member of the immediate family of any of
these persons had or will have a direct or indirect material interest.

On September 23, 2005, we completed the September 2005 Private Placement in which we issued
16,112,158 shares of common stock, at a price of $1.90 per share, and warrants to purchase an
aggregate of 5,639,232 shares of common stock, resulting in net proceeds of $29.0 million. The
warrants are currently exercisable, have an exercise price per share of $2.22, and expire on
September 22, 2010.

The table below sets forth the directors, 5% stockholders and affiliates of our directors that
participated in the September 2005 Private Placement. Information about each participant s
holdings is set forth in the footnotes to the table in Item 12 of this Annual Report.

(1) 
       
     Prior to the closing of the September 2005 Private Placement, the
sole general partner of Oxford Bioscience Partners II (Annex) L.P. ( OBP
II (Annex) ), was the beneficial owner of more than 5% of our common
stock. Jonathan Fleming, a member of our Board of Directors, is
affiliated with OBP II (Annex) and its sole general partner. 

80

(2) 
       
     Anthony B. Evnin, Ph.D., a member of our Board of Directors, is a
general partner of each of Venrock Associates and Venrock Associates II,
L.P. Dr. Evnin is also a Managing Member and General Partner of Venrock
Entrepreneurs Fund, L.P. (collectively with Venrock Associates and Venrock
Associates II, L.P., the  Venrock Funds ), our stockholder prior to the
September 2005 Private Placement. The Venrock Funds collectively held more
than 5% of our common stock prior to the September 2005 Private Placement. 

(3) 
       
     Mr. Sulat, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and his spouse
are the Trustees of the Keyes/Sulat Revocable Trust and the members of Mr.
Sulat s immediate family are the beneficiaries of the Trust. 

(4) 
       
     Oxford Bioscience Partners IV L.P. and mRNA Fund II L.P. are
affiliated with Mr. Fleming. Mr. Fleming is a general partner of OBP
Management IV L.P., the general partner of Oxford Bioscience Partners IV
L.P. and mRNA Fund II L.P. 

(5) 
       
     Dr. Gilbert, a member of our Board of Directors, and his spouse are
the trustees and the beneficiaries of the Walter and Celia Gilbert 1994
Unitrust #2, dated 10/11/94. 

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services .

In addition to retaining KPMG LLP ( KPMG ) to audit our financial statements, from time to time, we
engage KPMG to perform other services. The following table sets forth the aggregate fees billed by
KPMG in connection with the services rendered during the past two fiscal years. All fees set forth
below were approved by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

(1) 
       
     Audit fees represent fees for professional services rendered
for the audit of our financial statements, review of interim financial
statements and services normally provided by the independent auditor in
connection with regulatory filings, including our Form S-1 filing for our
initial public offering. 

(2) 
       
     Represents fees for consultation on federal and state tax
returns and for the preparation of such tax returns. 

Pre-approval Policies and Procedures 

Our Audit Committee Charter provides that the Audit Committee shall preapprove all services to be
provided to the Company by KPMG.

81

PART IV 

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules .

(a)  
       
      The following documents are being filed as part of this report:  

(1) 
       
     The following financial statements of the Company and the Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm are included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K: 

Report of KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 

Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity / (Deficit) for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 

Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

Notes to Financial Statements 

(c)  
       
      Exhibits.  

The following Exhibits are incorporated herein by reference or are filed with
this report as indicated below.

82

83

84

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  

10.21**

Form of Registrant s Notice of Stock Option Grant, 24
months vesting. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.2 of Registrant s Current Report of Form 8-K, filed
on September 16, 2004. 

10.22**

Form of Registrant s Stock Option Agreement.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of
Registrant s Current Report of Form 8-K, filed on
September 16, 2004. 

10.23**

Form of Registrant s Notice of Initial Grant to members
of the Registrant s Board of Directors. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Registrant s Current
Report of Form 8-K, filed on September 30, 2004. 

10.24**

Form of Registrant s Notice of Subsequent Grant to
members of the Registrant s Board of Directors.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
Registrant s Current Report of Form 8-K, filed on
September 30, 2004. 

10.25

Amendment to the Collaboration and License Agreement,
dated as of August 6, 2004, between F. Hoffmann-La
Roche Ltd., Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. and the Registrant.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
Registrant s Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q, filed for
the quarter ended September 30, 2004. 

10.26**

Form of Registrant s Notice of Grant, 48 months
vesting. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of
Registrant s Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q, filed for
the quarter ended September 30, 2004. 

10.27**

Letter Agreement, dated as of August 2, 2005, between
Gardiner F. H. Smith and the Registrant. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of Registrant s Quarterly
Report of Form 10-Q, filed for the quarter ended
September 30, 2004. 

10.28

Description of Board of Directors  Compensation.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
Registrant s Current Report of Form 8-K, filed on
December 16, 2004. 

10.29**

Employment Letter Agreement dated as of March 3, 2005
between Joseph M. Donabauer and the Registrant.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
Registrant s Current Report of Form 8-K, filed on March
9, 2005. 

10.30

Amendment to Strategic Alliance Agreement dated as of
February 28, 2005, among F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd,
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. and the Registrant.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.40 of
Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2004. 

10.31**

Employment Letter Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2005,
between James R. Sulat and the Registrant. Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Registrant s
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 10, 2005. 

10.32*

Second Amendment to the Collaboration and License
Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2005, between F.
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Hoffman-La Roche Inc. and the
Registrant. Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 of Registrant s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed on August 19, 2005. 

10.33

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated September 21,
2005, by and among the Registrant and the purchasers
listed on Exhibit A thereto. Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Registrant s Current
Report on Form 8-K, filed on September 23, 2005. 

85

* 
       
     Confidential treatment granted as to certain portions, which portions have been omitted and filed
separately with the SEC. 

Confidential treatment requested as to certain portions, which portions are omitted and filed
separately with the SEC. 

** 
       
     Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

86

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Montvale, State of New Jersey, on this 30th
day of March 2006.

MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP.  

By:   

 /s/
James R. Sulat  

James R. Sulat  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/
James R. Sulat 

James R. Sulat

President, Chief Executive
Officer and Director (Principal
Executive Officer)

March 30, 2006 

/s/
Joseph M. Donabauer  

Joseph M. Donabauer

Vice President   Controller
(Principal Accounting and
Financial Officer)

March 30, 2006 

/s/
Tony Scullion  

Tony Scullion

Chairman of the Board of Directors

March 30, 2006 

/s/
Anthony B. Evnin  

Anthony B. Evnin, Ph.D.

Director

March 30, 2006 

/s/
Jonathan Fleming  

Jonathan Fleming

Director

March 30, 2006 

/s/
Walter Gilbert  

Walter Gilbert, Ph.D.

Director

March 30, 2006 

/s/
Robert I. Kriebel  

Robert I. Kriebel

Director

March 30, 2006 

/s/
David A. Lowe  

David
A. Lowe, Ph.D.

Director

March 30, 2006 

/s/
Michael Meyers  

Michael Meyers, MPH

Director

March 30, 2006 

/s/
Peter F. Young  

Peter F. Young

Director

March 30, 2006 

87

Exhibit Index 

88

89

90

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  

10.26**

Form of Registrant s Notice of Grant, 48 months
vesting. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of
Registrant s Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q, filed for
the quarter ended September 30, 2004. 

10.27**

Letter Agreement, dated as of August 2, 2005, between
Gardiner F. H. Smith and the Registrant. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of Registrant s Quarterly
Report of Form 10-Q, filed for the quarter ended
September 30, 2004. 

10.28

Description of Board of Directors  Compensation.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
Registrant s Current Report of Form 8-K, filed on
December 16, 2004. 

10.29**

Employment Letter Agreement dated as of March 3, 2005
between Joseph M. Donabauer and the Registrant.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
Registrant s Current Report of Form 8-K, filed on March
9, 2005. 

10.30

Amendment to Strategic Alliance Agreement dated as of
February 28, 2005, among F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd,
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. and the Registrant.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.40 of
Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2004. 

10.31**

Employment Letter Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2005,
between James R. Sulat and the Registrant. Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Registrant s
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 10, 2005. 

10.32*

Second Amendment to the Collaboration and License
Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2005, between F.
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Hoffman-La Roche Inc. and the
Registrant. Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 of Registrant s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed on August 19, 2005. 

10.33

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated September 21,
2005, by and among the Registrant and the purchasers
listed on Exhibit A thereto. Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Registrant s Current
Report on Form 8-K, filed on September 23, 2005. 

10.34   

Development Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2005,
by and between the Registrant and The Stanley Medical
Research Institute. Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10.1 of Registrant s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed on December 23, 2005. 

10.35

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated December 19, 2005,
by and between the Registrant and The Stanley Medical
Research Institute. Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10.2 of Registrant s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed on December 23, 2005. 

10.36**

Employment Agreement dated as of February 17, 2006
between Tony Scullion and the Registrant. Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Registrant s
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 17, 2006. 

10.37*

Third Amendment to the Collaboration and License
Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2006, between F.
Hoffman-LaRoche Ltd., Hoffman-LaRoche Inc. and the
Registrant. Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 of Registrant s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed on March 3, 2006. 

10.38   

Collaboration and License Agreement, dated as of
October 14, 2005, between Amgen Inc. and the
Registrant. 

91

* 
       
     Confidential treatment granted as to certain portions, which portions have been omitted and
filed separately with the SEC. 

Confidential treatment requested as to certain portions, which portions are omitted and filed
separately with the SEC. 

** 
       
     Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

92

<EX-10.38>
 2
 y19213exv10w38.txt
 EX-10.38: COLLABORATION AND LICENSE AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 10.38

                       COLLABORATION AND LICENSE AGREEMENT

      THIS COLLABORATION AND LICENSE AGREEMENT (this "AGREEMENT"), having a date
of October 14, 2005 (the "EFFECTIVE DATE"), is made by and between, on the one
hand, AMGEN INC., a Delaware corporation, having its principal place of business
at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320 ("AMGEN"), and, on
the other hand, MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP., a Delaware corporation, having its
principal place of business at 100 Philips Parkway, Montvale, New Jersey 07645
("MEMORY").

                                  INTRODUCTION

1.    Memory has discovered compounds active as PDE10 inhibitors and owns
      related intellectual property rights.

2.    Amgen has expertise in the research, development, manufacture and
      commercialization of human therapeutics.

3.    The parties wish to collaborate to research inhibitors and other
      modulators of PDE10.

4.    In consideration of the mutual covenants and promises contained in this
      Agreement and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
      sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Memory and Amgen agree as
      follows:

                             ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS

As used in this Agreement, the following terms, whether used in the singular or
plural, shall have the following meanings:

1.1   "AFFILIATE" means (a) a person or business entity which owns, directly or
      indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting shares or other
      means of control of a Person; or (b) a business entity in which more than
      fifty percent (50%) of the voting shares or other means of control are
      owned by a Person, either directly or indirectly; or (c) a business
      entity, the majority ownership of which is directly or indirectly common
      to the majority ownership of a Person. Notwithstanding the preceding
      provisions, with respect to an Affiliate of a Party to this Agreement,
      once an entity ceases to be an Affiliate, then such entity shall, without
      any further action, cease to have any rights, including license and
      sublicense rights, under this Agreement that it has by reason of being an
      Affiliate.

1.2   "AGREEMENT TERM" means the term of this Agreement, more fully described in
      Section 12.1.

1.3   "AMGEN INVENTION" means an Invention having as inventors employees,
      consultants or agents of Amgen or its Affiliates, but not employees,
      consultants or agents of Memory or its Affiliates, as determined under US
      patent law.

1.4   "AMGEN KNOW-HOW" means all Know-How that Amgen owns, or otherwise is
      Controlled by Amgen, during the Agreement Term. Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, Amgen Know-

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       1

How shall not be deemed to include Memory Know-How solely based upon the
      fact that Amgen may Control such Memory Know-How under this Agreement.

1.5   "AMGEN PROPERTY" means (1) an exclusive, royalty bearing license, under
      intellectual property (including Collaboration Technology, Joint
      Inventions, Patent Rights Covering Collaboration Technology, and Joint
      Patent Rights) controlled by Amgen that is exclusively related to the Lead
      Compounds to make, have made, use, offer for sale, sell and import the
      Lead Compounds (subject to Amgen's retained non-exclusive research license
      to Memory Inventions that relate to Memory compounds consisting of PDE10
      inhibitors or modulators, including Memory Compounds, and non-exclusive
      license to any other Memory Invention as provided under Section 2.1 and
      further subject to Sections 12.5(a) and 12.5(b)); (2) [*] (in the case of
      each of (1) and (2), in the event that the Lead Compounds is not in
      clinical trials at the time of termination of the Agreement, then (1) and
      (2) shall [*]); and (3) the assignment and transfer to Memory, or its
      Affiliates as requested by Memory, free of any liens, pledges or security
      interests (collectively, "LIENS"), of all of Amgen's right, title and
      interest in and to (i) [*](to the extent assignable and not cancelled by
      the party(ies) thereto other than Amgen) to the extent relating solely to
      the Lead Compounds, (ii) [*] in Amgen's possession or in the possession of
      its Affiliates or its or their respective agents to the extent solely
      relating to the Lead Compounds (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that Amgen may redact
      any information that does not relate to the Lead Compounds), (iii) all
      rights relating to the infringement of Memory Patent Rights and Joint
      Patent Rights by Third Parties, solely relating to the Lead Compounds,
      (iv) all rights relating to patent prosecutions described in Section 9.2
      relating solely to the Lead Compounds (and Amgen shall thereafter use
      diligent efforts to file divisionals to separate any patent claims solely
      relating to the Lead Compounds from those relating to other compounds) and
      (v) any trademarks or trademark applications that are solely used or
      solely intended for use for the Lead Compounds, and not for any products
      of Amgen or any of its Affiliates, and so long as any such trademarks or
      trademark applications do not use the name Amgen or any derivative
      thereof.

1.6   "CALENDAR QUARTER" means each respective period of 3 consecutive months
      ending on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each Calendar
      Year.

1.7   "CALENDAR YEAR" means each successive period of 12 months commencing on
      January 1 and ending on December 31.

1.8   "CHANGE OF CONTROL OF MEMORY" means the occurrence of any of the following
      events:

      (a)   Any person (as such term is defined under Section 13(d)(3) of the
            Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "EXCHANGE ACT")),
            corporation or other entity hereafter becomes the beneficial owner
            (as such term is defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of
            securities of Memory [*] representing [*] percent ([*]%) or more of
            the combined voting power of the outstanding securities of Memory
            which ordinarily (and apart from rights accruing under special
            circumstances) have the right to vote in the election of directors
            (calculated as provided in paragraph (d) of such Rule 13d-3 in the
            case of rights to acquire the Memory's securities) (the
            "SECURITIES");

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       2

(b)   As a result of a tender offer, merger, sale of assets or other major
            transaction, the persons who are directors of Memory immediately
            prior to such transaction cease to constitute a majority of the
            Board of Directors of Memory (or any successor corporations)
            immediately after such transaction;

      (C)   [*] Memory is merged or consolidated with any other person, firm,
            corporation or other entity and, as a result, the shareholders of
            Memory, as determined immediately before such transaction, own less
            than [*] percent ([*]%) of the outstanding Securities of the
            surviving or resulting entity immediately after such transaction;

      (d)   Memory transfers all or substantially all of its assets to another
            person, firm, corporation or other entity;

      (e)   An Industry Buyer acquires twenty percent (20%) or more of the
            outstanding Securities of Memory; or

      (f)

            (1)   Memory becomes bankrupt or insolvent, or files a petition in
                  bankruptcy or makes a general assignment for the benefit of
                  creditors or otherwise acknowledges in writing insolvency, or
                  is adjudged bankrupt, and Memory (i) fails to assume this
                  Agreement in any such bankruptcy proceeding within thirty (30)
                  days after filing or (ii) assumes and assigns this Agreement
                  to a Third Party;

            (2)   Memory grants to a party other than Amgen a security interest
                  in any intellectual property licensed to Amgen hereunder
                  (unless Memory has first granted to Amgen a security interest
                  in such intellectual property to secure Memory's obligations
                  under this Agreement and the security interest granted by
                  Memory to such party is subordinated or junior in priority to
                  the security interest granted by Memory to Amgen, PROVIDED,
                  HOWEVER, [*];

            (3)   Memory goes into or is placed in a process of complete
                  liquidation;

            (4)   a trustee or receiver is appointed for any substantial portion
                  of Memory's business who is not discharged within [*] days
                  after appointment;

            (5)   any case or proceeding shall have been commenced or other
                  action taken against Memory in bankruptcy or seeking
                  liquidation, reorganization, dissolution, a winding-up
                  arrangement, composition or readjustment of its debts or any
                  other relief under any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization
                  or similar act or law of any jurisdiction now or hereafter in
                  effect and is not dismissed or converted into a voluntary
                  proceeding governed by clause (f)(1) above within [*] days
                  after filing; or

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       3

(6)   there shall have been issued a warrant of attachment,
                  execution, distraint or similar process against any
                  substantial part of the property of Memory and such event
                  shall have continued for a period of [*] days undismissed, not
                  bonded in a manner reasonably satisfactory to Amgen or
                  undischarged.

1.9   "CHANGE OF CONTROL RIGHTS" means [*].

1.10  "COLLABORATION COMPOUND" means a PDE10 inhibitor or modulator (a) for
      which Amgen during the Agreement Term has rights, whether by reason of its
      own conception of such inhibitor or modulator or under agreement with a
      Third Party, (b) was identified or confirmed as a PDE10 inhibitor or
      modulator through the use of the Memory Screening Technology, and (c)
      subject to Section 7.3(a), with respect to which the initial IND for the
      inhibitor or modulator has been filed within [*] years after the Effective
      Date by Amgen or its Affiliate.

1.11  "COLLABORATION TECHNOLOGY" means all Know-How generated in the conduct of
      the Research Collaboration by Amgen and Memory jointly or solely by
      Memory, as well as all Know-How, inventions, and/or intellectual property
      rights created, developed or generated by Memory or its Affiliates with
      respect to any PDE10 inhibitors or modulators in violation of Section 2.5.

1.12  "COMPOSITION OF MATTER CLAIM" means, for a given Product in a given
      country of the Territory, a Valid Claim of a Memory Patent Right or a
      Joint Patent Right that Covers the composition of matter of the PDE10
      inhibitor or modulator per se that is included in such Product, in whole
      or as a component thereof, as an active ingredient of such Product.

1.13  "COMPOUND" means either a Primary Compound or a Secondary Compound.

1.14  "CONTROL" means, with respect to any Know-How, Material or intellectual
      property right (including Patent Rights), possession by a party of the
      ability (whether by ownership, license or otherwise) to grant access, a
      license or a sublicense to such Know-How, Material or intellectual
      property right as provided for in this Agreement without violating the
      terms of any agreement with any Third Party in existence as of the
      Effective Date. With respect to any Know-How, Material or intellectual
      property right (including Patent Rights) to which either party obtains
      rights after the Effective Date, then Control shall include possession by
      such party of the ability (whether by ownership, license or otherwise) to
      grant access, a license or a sublicense to such Know-How, Material or
      intellectual property right as provided for in this Agreement without
      violating the terms of any agreement with any Third Party pursuant to
      which such Know-How, Material or intellectual property rights were
      obtained or developed (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that with respect to Know-How
      that is obtained or developed outside of the Research Collaboration, then
      Control means possession by such party of the ability (whether by
      ownership, license or otherwise) to grant access, a license or a
      sublicense to such Know-How as provided for in this Agreement without
      violating the terms of any agreement with any Third Party pursuant to
      which such Know-How was obtained or developed or in existence as of the
      date such party obtains such rights).

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       4

1.15  "COVER" (including the variations such as "Covered", "Coverage" or
      "Covering") means that the making, using, offering for sale, selling or
      importing of the product or invention being referenced would infringe a
      Valid Claim of a Patent Right in the absence of a license under such
      Patent Right. Except to the extent set forth in Section 5.2, the
      determination of whether a product or invention is Covered by a particular
      Patent Right shall be made on a country-by-country basis.

1.16  "DEDICATED PERSONNEL" means [*] percent ([*]%) of the Memory personnel who
      performed the Amgen funded FTE activities under the Research Collaboration
      during the [*] immediately preceding the occurrence of the applicable
      Change of Control of Memory (rounded down to the nearest whole number).

1.17  "EUROPE" means the [*].

1.18  "FDA" means the United States Food and Drug Administration, or its foreign
      equivalent.

1.19  "FIELD" means all uses, including prophylaxis, palliative, diagnostic, and
      therapeutic.

1.20  "FTE" means the equivalent of the work of one employee full time for one
      year (consisting of at least a total of [*] weeks or [*] hours per year
      (excluding vacations and holidays) of work on or directly related to the
      Research Collaboration), carried out by a Memory employee or a permitted
      subcontractor. No more than [*] hours per week of overtime shall be
      counted toward the number of hours that are used to calculate the FTE
      contribution. No one person shall be permitted to account for more than
      one FTE.

1.21  "FTE RATE" means [*] Dollars ($[*]) per FTE per year.

1.22  "GENERAL INVENTION" means a Memory Invention that is not specifically
      related to a Compound, a Product or the inhibition or modulation of PDE10.

1.23  "IND" means an Investigational New Drug Application filed with the FDA for
      human clinical testing of a drug.

1.24  "INDUSTRY BUYER" means an entity that, together with its Affiliates, has
      an average annual pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology pre-clinical
      research expenditure of more than [*]. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
      bona fide venture capital or private equity firm that is not owned or
      controlled by, and does not own or control a significant biotechnology or
      pharmaceutical company shall not be deemed to be an Industry Buyer. For
      the purposes of illustration, the Parties consider the following to not be
      Industry Buyers because they are bona fide venture capital or private
      equity firms that are not owned or controlled by, and do not own or
      control a significant biotechnology or pharmaceutical company: [*]

1.25  "INITIATION OF PHASE 2A CLINICAL TRIAL" means the date that a patient is
      first dosed by or on behalf of Amgen, its Affiliate or sublicensee with a
      Product in a clinical trial on sufficient numbers of patients that is
      designed to establish the safety and efficacy of a drug for its intended
      use, and to define warnings, precautions and adverse reactions that are
      associated with the drug in the dosage range to be prescribed and that
      satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR 312.21(b) (or its successor
      regulation), or its foreign equivalent.

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       5

1.26  "INITIATION OF PHASE 2B CLINICAL TRIAL" means the date that a patient is
      first dosed by or on behalf of Amgen, its Affiliate or sublicensee with a
      Product in a second clinical trial (of such Product) on sufficient numbers
      of patients that is designed to establish the safety and efficacy of a
      drug for its intended use, and to define warnings, precautions and adverse
      reactions that are associated with the drug in the dosage range to be
      prescribed and that satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR 312.21(b) (or its
      successor regulation), or its foreign equivalent. Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, if the first such clinical trial for such Product was
      prematurely terminated or suspended and the parameters of such second
      clinical trial are similar to those of the first such clinical trial of
      such Product, then the date that a patient is first dosed in such second
      clinical trial shall be deemed to be another Initiation of Phase 2a
      Clinical Trial and not an Initiation of Phase 2b Clinical Trial.

1.27  "INITIATION OF PHASE 3 CLINICAL TRIAL" means the date that a patient is
      first dosed by or on behalf of Amgen, its Affiliate or sublicensee with a
      Product in a clinical trial of sufficient numbers of patients that, if the
      defined end-points are met, is intended to be a pivotal trial for
      obtaining Regulatory Approval or otherwise intended to supplement existing
      data on the drug and thereby establish that a drug is sufficiently safe
      and efficacious for its intended use for the purposes of obtaining
      Regulatory Approval, and to provide an adequate basis for defining in
      physician labeling the warnings, precautions and adverse reactions that
      are associated with the drug in the dosage range to be prescribed, and
      which is intended to support Regulatory Approval of such drug in the
      United States, European Union or any country in the European Union and
      that satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR 312.21(c), or its successor
      regulation, or an equivalent foreign clinical trial.

1.28  "INVENTION" means an invention, including any Compound, that is made in
      the conduct of the Research Collaboration.

1.29  "JOINT COMPOUND" means any PDE10 inhibitor or modulator which is Covered
      by a Composition of Matter Claim under a Joint Patent Right.

1.30  "JOINT INVENTION" means an Invention having at least one co-inventor who
      is an employee, consultant or agent of Amgen and/or its Affiliates, and at
      least one co-inventor who is an employee, consultant or agent of Memory
      and/or its Affiliates, as inventorship is determined under U.S. patent
      law.

1.31  "JOINT PATENT RIGHTS" means patent claims (and the Patent Rights in which
      those claims are contained), which if issued would, or as issued do, Cover
      a Joint Invention and, under US patent law, require the naming of at least
      one co-inventor who is an employee, consultant or agent of Amgen and/or
      its Affiliates, and at least one co-inventor who is an employee,
      consultant or agent of Memory and/or its Affiliates.

1.32  "JRC" means that committee organized and operating as provided in Article
      7.

1.33  "KNOW-HOW" means data, know-how, trade secrets, methods, knowledge and
      information, including materials, samples, chemical manufacturing data,
      toxicological data, pharmacological data, preclinical data, assays,
      platforms, formulations, specifications, quality control testing data,
      that are necessary or useful for the research,

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       6

discovery, manufacture, development or commercialization of any Product in
      the Territory.

1.34  "LAUNCH" means, with respect to a Product in a country of the Territory,
      the date of the first commercial sale by or on behalf of Amgen, its
      Affiliate or its sublicensee of the given Product in the given country
      after Regulatory Approval (if required) in such country.

1.35  "LEAD COMPOUND(S)" shall mean the Compound which, prior to the events
      triggering the provisions of Section 12.5(a), has [*] (unless another
      Memory Compound or Joint Compound that has reached IND enabling toxicology
      studies is selected in writing by Memory as a lead compound), together
      with a [*] Compound which other than the aforementioned Compound has [*]
      (unless another Memory Compound or Joint Compound that has reached IND
      enabling toxicology studies is selected in writing by Memory as a back-up
      compound).

1.36  "MAJOR MARKET COUNTRIES" means the [*].

1.37  "MATERIALS" means certain biological materials or chemical compounds
      including assays, Compounds, screens, knock-out mice and other animal
      models, cell lines, cells, nucleic acids, receptors and reagents
      Controlled by the supplying Party. "Materials" shall be deemed to include
      the materials listed on Schedules 1.42, 1.60, and 1.65 each as attached
      hereto, which Memory will provide to Amgen pursuant to Section 7.1(c) of
      this Agreement.

1.38  "MEMORY COMPOUND" means any PDE10 inhibitor or modulator for which Memory
      during the Agreement Term has rights, whether by reason of its own
      conception of such inhibitor or modulator or under agreement with a Third
      Party, which is Covered by a Valid Claim of a Memory Patent Right.

1.39  "MEMORY INVENTION" means an Invention having as inventors employees,
      consultants or agents of Memory or its Affiliates, but not employees,
      consultants or agents of Amgen or its Affiliates, as determined under US
      patent law.

1.40  "MEMORY KNOW-HOW" means all Know-How that Memory owns, or otherwise is
      Controlled by Memory, during the Agreement Term.

1.41  "MEMORY PATENT RIGHTS" means all Patent Rights that Memory owns, or
      otherwise are Controlled by Memory, during the Agreement Term, excluding
      any Joint Patent Rights. Schedule 1.41 lists all Memory Patent Rights that
      claim compounds that inhibit or modulate PDE10 as of the date hereof
      ("BASE PATENTS").

1.42  "MEMORY SCREENING TECHNOLOGY" means all of the screens and counterscreens
      for the PDE10 program [*] Controlled by Memory during the Agreement Term.
      To each parties knowledge, as of the Effective Date, Schedule 1.42 sets
      forth all Memory Screening Technology then in existence.

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       7

1.43  "MEMORY TECHNOLOGY" means the Memory Compounds, the Memory Screening
      Technology and in addition to the foregoing the reagents, protocols and
      documentation necessary and/or useful for Amgen to perform Memory's PDE10
      assay(s), Controlled by Memory during the Agreement Term, including in
      vitro and in vivo behavioral and other assays, as well as all Know-How,
      Materials and documentation Controlled by Memory relating to PDE10.

1.44  "NDA" means a New Drug Application, or its foreign equivalent, filed with
      the FDA for a drug.

1.45  "NET SALES" means, with respect to a certain time period, the gross
      invoiced sales prices charged for all Products sold by or for Amgen, its
      Affiliates and sublicensees in arms length transactions to Third Parties
      (but not including sales relating to transactions between Amgen, its
      Affiliates, and/or their respective sublicensees) during such time period,
      less the total of the following estimated and/or incurred charges or
      expenses to the extent attributable to the sale of the Product: [*].

      All of the sales, and deductions taken above, shall be determined in
      accordance with GAAP. [*]. For the purposes of this Agreement, "GAAP"
      means generally accepted accounting principles.

      Any disposal of Products for, or use of Products in, clinical or
      pre-clinical trials, given as free samples in accordance with applicable
      law, or distributed at no charge to patients unable to purchase Product
      shall not be included in Net Sales.

      Where a Product is sold together with other pharmaceutical products
      (excluding devices used for using or administering the Product excluded
      from Net Sales above) for a single price (whether sold together in the
      same package, or merely price bundled) then for the purposes of
      calculating the Net Sales for the Products under this Agreement, the
      Product shall be deemed to be sold for an amount equal to the following:

                        (X divided by Y) multiplied by Z

      where X is the average sales price during the applicable reporting period
      generally achieved for the Product in the country in which such sale or
      other disposal occurred when such Product is sold alone and not with other
      pharmaceutical products; Y is the sum of the average sales price during
      the applicable reporting period generally achieved in that country when
      sold alone by each product (including the Product) included in the bundle
      of pharmaceutical products that is sold for the single price; and Z equals
      the single price at which the bundle of pharmaceutical products
      represented in Y was actually sold. In the event one or more of the
      products in the bundled product are not sold separately, the parties shall
      confer in good faith to determine a fair market price that shall be
      equitable for the value of the Product within the bundled product.

1.46  "PARTY" means Amgen or Memory. "PARTIES" means Amgen and Memory.

1.47  "PATENT RIGHT" means all rights under (a) any patent or patent application
      in any country of the Territory, (b) all patent applications filed in any
      jurisdiction corresponding to or

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       8

claiming priority from the patents and/or patent applications referred to
      in the foregoing clause (a); (c) all divisionals, continuations and
      continuations-in-part of the patent applications referred to in the
      foregoing clauses (a) and (b); (d) all patents issuing from the patent
      applications referred to in the foregoing clauses (a), (b) and (c); and
      (e) all reissues, re-examination certificates, registrations,
      confirmations, extensions, substitutions, renewals and supplementary
      protection certificates of the patent and/or patent applications referred
      to in the foregoing clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d).

1.48  "PDE10" means any biological molecule that is a member of the family of
      [*] generally known as PDE10, [*], PDE10A (amino acid sequences of which
      are attached hereto as Schedule 1.48), and any and all of the following
      biological molecules related to PDE10: [*]

1.49  "PERSON" means any individual, corporation (including any non-profit
      corporation), general partnership, limited partnership, limited liability
      partnership, joint venture, estate, trust, company (including any limited
      liability company or joint stock company), firm or other enterprise,
      association, organization, entity or governmental entity.

1.50  "PRIMARY COMPOUND" means a Memory Compound, a Joint Compound or a
      Collaboration Compound.

1.51  "PRIMARY PRODUCT" means a product that includes, in whole or as a
      component thereof, a Primary Compound.

1.52  "PRODUCT" means any Primary Product or Secondary Product.

1.53  [*]

1.54  "REGULATORY APPROVAL" means any approvals (including pricing and
      reimbursement approvals), licenses, registrations or authorizations of any
      national or international or local regulatory agency, department, bureau
      or other governmental entity, necessary for the manufacture and sale of a
      Product in the Field in a regulatory jurisdiction in the Territory by
      Amgen, its Affiliate or sublicensee.

1.55  "REINSTATABLE RIGHTS" means [*].

1.56  "RESEARCH COLLABORATION" means the collaborative non-clinical research
      program between the Parties relating to PDE10 inhibitors and modulators,
      as more fully described in the Research Workplan.

1.57  "RESEARCH WORKPLAN" means the plan of non-clinical research activities
      attached as Schedule 1.57, as it may be amended in writing from time to
      time.

1.58  "RESEARCH TERM" shall have the meaning provided in Section 7.1(b)(iii).

1.59  "ROYALTY TERM" means with respect to (i) a given Primary Product in a
      given country the period of time commencing on Launch in such country and
      continuing until the later of (a) expiration of the last to expire of a
      Memory Patent Right or Composition of Matter

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       9

Claim Covering such Product in such country or (b) ten (10) years from the
      Launch of such Product in such country, and (ii) a given Secondary Product
      in a given country the period of time commencing on Launch in such country
      and continuing until ten (10) years from the Launch of such Product in
      such country. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any given
      Product that becomes a Primary Product in a given country subsequent to
      Launch in such country, the Royalty Term shall expire in such country upon
      the later of (x) expiration of the last to expire of a Memory Patent Right
      or Composition of Matter Claim Covering such Product in such country or
      (y) ten (10) years from the Launch of such Product in such country. The
      Launch within any country in the European Union shall be deemed the date
      of Launch for all countries in the European Union.

1.60  "SECONDARY COMPOUND" means (i) a PDE10 inhibitor or modulator, other than
      a Primary Compound, (a) for which Amgen during the Agreement Term has
      rights, whether by reason of its own conception of such inhibitor or
      modulator, or under agreement with a Third Party, (b) was identified or
      confirmed as a PDE10 inhibitor or modulator through the use of the Memory
      Screening Technology, and (c) subject to Section 7.3(a), with respect to
      which the initial IND for the inhibitor or modulator has not been filed
      within [*] after the Effective Date by Amgen or its Affiliate, or (ii) [*]
      or as identified by Memory on Schedule 1.60 attached hereto.

1.61  "SECONDARY PRODUCT" means a product that includes, in whole or as a
      component thereof, a Secondary Compound; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if a
      Product includes in whole or as a component thereof, a Primary Compound
      then such Product shall be deemed a Primary Product. No Product shall be
      deemed both a Primary Product and a Secondary Product concurrently.

1.62  "TERRITORY" means all countries and territories in the world.

1.63  "THIRD PARTY" means a person or entity other than (i) Memory or any of its
      Affiliates, or (ii) Amgen or any of its Affiliates.

1.64  "THIRD PARTY ACQUIRER" means a Third Party that obtains ownership or
      control of (whether directly or indirectly) or otherwise acquires all or
      substantially all of the business or assets of Memory in connection with a
      Change of Control of Memory, whether in one transaction or a series of
      transactions.

1.65  "TRIGGERING EVENT" means a [*] determination by [*] resulting from the
      performance of the research set forth in Schedule 1.65-A attached hereto
      that [*] and that such [*] the central nervous system effects described
      in Schedule 1.65-B.

1.66  "US" means the United States of America and its possessions and
      territories, including Puerto Rico.

1.67  "VALID CLAIM" means a claim [*].

                            ARTICLE 2. LICENSE GRANTS

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       10

2.1   License Grants. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
      Memory grants to Amgen the sole and exclusive license, including the right
      to grant sublicenses pursuant to Section 2.2, under the Memory Patent
      Rights, the Memory Know-How, the Memory Inventions and Memory Technology
      to perform Amgen's responsibilities under the Research Collaboration and
      to research, develop, make, have made, use, offer for sale, sell, have
      sold, import, export or otherwise exploit, or transfer possession of or
      title in, Compounds and Products in the Territory for use in the Field.

      Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Memory grants to
      Amgen the sole and exclusive license, including the right to grant
      sublicenses pursuant to Section 2.2, under its joint interest in Joint
      Patent Rights (other than with respect to General Inventions) to perform
      Amgen's responsibilities under the Research Collaboration and to research,
      develop, make, have made, use, offer for sale, sell, have sold, import,
      export or otherwise exploit, or transfer possession of or title in,
      Compounds and Products in the Territory for use in the Field.

      Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Memory grants to
      Amgen the sole and exclusive license, including the right to grant
      sublicenses pursuant to Section 2.2, under its joint interest in
      Collaboration Technology to research, develop, make, have made, use, offer
      for sale, sell, have sold, import, export or otherwise exploit, or
      transfer possession of or title in, products solely to the extent related
      to PDE10; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that Memory and Amgen shall each have the
      non-exclusive right (including the right to grant sublicenses) under the
      Collaboration Technology to research, develop, make, have made, use, offer
      for sale, sell, have sold, import, export or otherwise exploit, or
      transfer possession of or title in, products except solely to the extent
      related to PDE10.

      During the Agreement Term, subject to the terms and conditions of this
      Agreement, Memory grants to Amgen a worldwide, fully paid-up,
      royalty-free, non-exclusive license, including the unrestricted right to
      grant sublicenses, under the Memory Inventions, and all intellectual
      property rights to the extent relating thereto, for any and all purposes.
      Upon expiration or termination of this Agreement, subject to the terms and
      conditions of this Agreement (including Section 12.1), Memory grants to
      Amgen and its Affiliates a worldwide, fully paid-up, royalty-free,
      non-exclusive license, with no right to grant sublicenses or assign such
      license, under the Memory Inventions to the extent relating to Memory
      compounds consisting of PDE10 inhibitors or modulators, including Memory
      Compounds and all intellectual property rights to the extent relating
      thereto solely for internal research purposes (the "RESEARCH LICENSE"),
      and Memory grants to Amgen and its Affiliates a worldwide, fully paid-up,
      royalty-free, non-exclusive license, including the unrestricted right to
      grant sublicenses, under any other Memory Invention (including General
      Inventions), and all intellectual property rights to the extent relating
      thereto, for any and all purposes.

      Amgen's right to use Memory's pre-existing technology and all intellectual
      property rights relating thereto pursuant to the licenses granted under
      this Section 2.1 shall be limited solely to Amgen's and its Affiliates'
      and sublicensees' use in connection with activities under this Agreement
      related to PDE10. Pursuant to the licenses granted under this Section 2.1,
      Amgen shall have exclusive rights to all technology and all intellectual

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       11

property rights to the extent relating thereto developed solely or jointly
      by Memory during the Research Collaboration for use solely in connection
      with activities under this Agreement related to PDE10, including Memory
      Inventions and Collaboration Technology, and non-exclusive rights relating
      thereto for activities unrelated to PDE10. Further, nothing in this
      Agreement shall limit the right of Memory to use Memory Know-How
      (including the Memory Screening Technology, but excluding Memory
      Inventions pursuant to which Amgen has been granted an exclusive license
      under the first paragraph of this Section 2.1) for any purpose except
      solely to the extent related to researching, developing, making, having
      made, using, offering for sale, selling, having sold, importing, exporting
      or otherwise exploiting, or transferring possession of or title in,
      Compounds and Products in the Territory for use in the Field.

2.2   Sublicense Rights. Except with respect to the Research License, the rights
      and licenses granted to Amgen under Section 2.1 shall include the
      unrestricted right to grant sublicenses to its Affiliates and Third
      Parties under such rights and licenses, in whole or in part. Amgen assumes
      full responsibility for the performance of all obligations and observance
      of all terms of this Agreement imposed on such Affiliate or Third Party
      sublicensee and will itself account to Memory for all payments due under
      this Agreement by reason of such sublicensee's activities.

      Upon the licenses granted herein to Amgen becoming fully paid up pursuant
      to Section 12.1, any and all sublicenses granted by Amgen similarly shall
      become fully paid up as to Memory.

2.3   Products Containing Amgen Compounds. Memory acknowledges that prior to the
      Effective Date Amgen has or, during the Agreement Term Amgen may have,
      rights in or to Amgen Compounds. For the purposes of this Agreement,
      "AMGEN COMPOUND" means a PDE10 inhibitor or modulator, other than a
      Primary Compound or Secondary Compound, (a) for which Amgen during the
      Agreement Term has rights, whether by reason of its own conception of such
      inhibitor or modulator, or under agreement with a Third Party, and (b) was
      not identified or confirmed as a PDE10 inhibitor or modulator through the
      use of the Memory Screening Technology.

      All rights in and to any Amgen Compound shall remain solely owned by
      Amgen, and Memory shall have no rights, and Amgen shall have no
      obligations, financial or otherwise, to Memory, under this Agreement with
      respect to any Amgen Compound.

2.4   No Implied License. No rights or licenses with respect to any intellectual
      property owned or Controlled by either party are granted or shall be
      deemed granted hereunder or in connection herewith, other than those
      rights or licenses expressly granted in this Agreement.

2.5   Exclusivity. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement,
      during the Agreement Term, Memory and its Affiliates will not, internally
      (other than in performance of the Research Workplan) or in conjunction
      with a Third Party, conduct, effect, participate in or cause, or advise,
      assist or encourage any Third Party (including, without limitation,
      through the transfer of information, materials or technology) to

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       12

conduct, effect, participate in or cause, in any way, directly or
      indirectly, any activities related to PDE10 inhibitors or modulators;
      PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that nothing contained herein shall prohibit any
      activity with respect to inhibitors or modulators of phosphodiesterases
      other than those that inhibit or modulate PDE10. For the purposes of this
      Section 2.5, Affiliates shall [*].

2.6   Registration. The Parties shall execute the short-form of license attached
      hereto as Schedule 2.6 concurrently with this Agreement. From time to time
      after the Effective Date, upon request by Amgen, Memory agrees to execute
      such similar short-forms of license to evidence the license of rights
      granted to Amgen by this Agreement. Amgen shall have the right to record
      such short-forms of license in the United States Patent and Trademark
      Office, the corresponding offices outside the United States, and/or with
      other appropriate governmental agencies. Amgen shall provide Memory with
      prompt written notice of any such recordation, including a copy of all
      papers recorded. Upon termination of the Agreement in its entirety for any
      reason, Amgen at its sole cost and expense shall promptly execute and
      deliver to Memory, or cause to be filed with the United States Patent and
      Trademark Office, the corresponding offices outside the United States,
      and/or with other appropriate governmental agencies, appropriate
      terminations of such short-forms of license.

                              ARTICLE 3. DILIGENCE

3.1   Amgen's Diligence. Amgen shall use reasonable diligence in proceeding with
      the research, development (including obtaining required Regulatory
      Approvals), manufacturing, marketing and sale of Products in the Major
      Market Countries.

      Reasonable diligence as used in this Agreement shall mean the same
      standard of effort as used by Amgen, or in any case not less than common
      in the industry taken as a whole, in the research, development, clinical
      testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of a product of similar
      profile, market potential and at a similar stage in its product life as
      that of the applicable Product, taking into account safety, efficacy,
      competition, the patent and other proprietary position of the Product, the
      likelihood of Regulatory Approval given the regulatory structure involved,
      the profitability of the Product including the royalties payable to
      licensors of patent rights, alternative products and product candidates
      and other relevant factors, including scientific, business and marketing
      and return on investment considerations. The Parties also acknowledge
      that, even within the Major Market Countries, Amgen (and its Affiliates)
      does not always seek to market its own products in every such country or
      seek to obtain regulatory approval in every such country or for every
      potential indication or seek to obtain regulatory approvals in different
      countries concurrently. As a result, reasonable diligence shall be
      determined by judging Amgen's efforts taken as a whole in the following
      regions on a region-by-region basis (the regions being [*]) (taking into
      account factors including pricing strategy, applicable law and regulation
      and the availability and strength of protection for intellectual property
      and proprietary rights), and it is anticipated that the level of effort
      will change over time, reflecting changes in the status of the Product and
      the market and/or region involved and based upon changing scientific,
      business, marketing, return on investment and other considerations.
      Additionally, the Parties acknowledge that prior to Initiation of Phase 3

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       13

Clinical Trial conducted to support Regulatory Approval of a Product in
      the [*], Amgen shall have no diligence obligations under this Section 3.1
      with respect to [*].

3.2   Memory's Diligence. Memory shall use reasonable diligence, and shall
      commit the personnel, facilities and resources, to perform its obligations
      under the Research Workplan. Memory will conduct its activities under the
      Research Collaboration in good scientific manner, using qualified
      personnel, and in material compliance with applicable laws and
      regulations. Memory will prepare and maintain complete and accurate
      written records relating to its activities under the Research
      Collaboration consistent with industry standards including, for purposes
      of patent and regulatory matters, prompt, but in no event less than daily,
      signing and corroboration of laboratory notebooks and conception
      documents. Amgen shall have the right to use such source data to support
      submissions to regulatory agencies and the filing, prosecution,
      maintenance, defense and enforcement of Joint Patent Rights and for such
      other purposes as reasonably necessary in pursuit of performing Amgen's
      responsibilities under the Research Collaboration and researching,
      developing, making, having made, using, offering for sale, selling, having
      sold, importing, exporting or otherwise exploiting, or transferring
      possession of or title in, Compounds and Products in the Territory for use
      in the Field. Memory shall maintain such records for the later of (a) the
      Agreement Term or (b) five (5) years following the expiration or
      termination of the Research Collaboration. Upon Amgen's written request
      and within fifteen (15) business days after such request, Memory shall
      make available for inspection by the Amgen Audit Representative (as that
      term is defined in Section 7.3 hereof) the records of Memory (including
      source data such as laboratory notebook records) regarding the activities
      conducted and results achieved under the Research Collaboration, including
      all records related to Collaboration Technology and Inventions, at any
      reasonable time during Memory's regular working hours, and copies of all
      or any part of such data and records (whether in tangible or electronic
      form) shall be furnished to the Amgen Audit Representative upon request,
      provided that the Amgen Audit Representative shall execute a
      confidentiality agreement of the type described in Section 7.3 prior to
      the Amgen Audit Representative exercising any such rights. The rights and
      obligations contained in the preceding sentence shall survive for the
      later of (a) the Agreement Term or (b) five (5) years after the expiration
      or termination of the Research Collaboration.

3.3   Use of Memory Screening Technology. After the occurrence of the Triggering
      Event, Amgen shall [*] the Memory Screening Technology with respect to its
      use in the Research Collaboration, [*].

                          ARTICLE 4. PAYMENTS TO MEMORY

4.1   Up-Front Payment. Subject to Section 12.2, Amgen shall pay Memory an
      up-front payment of five million dollars ($5,000,000), which shall be
      non-refundable and non-creditable. Payment for such up-front fee shall be
      made within thirty (30) days following the Effective Date.

4.2      Triggering Event. Upon the occurrence of the Triggering Event, Amgen
         shall pay Memory a payment of [*] dollars ($[*]), which shall be
         non-refundable and non-

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       14

creditable. Upon the occurrence of the Triggering Event, Amgen shall
      notify Memory of such occurrence, and Memory will invoice Amgen for such
      payment. Such payment shall be due and payable by Amgen within [*] days
      after receipt of the applicable invoice from Memory. Amgen shall use
      reasonable diligence to cause the Triggering Event to occur as soon as
      reasonably practicable. If, within [*] days from the date hereof, the
      Triggering Event has not occurred, Memory shall have the right, at
      Memory's expense, to, and/or the right to cause a Third Party to, [*]. The
      Triggering Event shall only be deemed to have occurred if [*] results in
      the occurrence of the Triggering Event. The Parties confirm that the
      absence of the Triggering Event shall not eliminate, reduce or otherwise
      modify any obligation to make any milestone payments or royalty payments
      hereunder (other than the payment provided for in this Section 4.2).

4.3   Milestone Payments. (a) Amgen shall pay to Memory each of the following
      applicable one-time milestone payments following achievement of the
      corresponding milestone event by Amgen, its Affiliates or sublicensees,
      and all such payments shall be nonrefundable and non-creditable, except to
      the extent expressly set forth in this Section 4.3 or Section 6.5.

MILESTONE PAYMENT    MILESTONE PAYMENT
      MILESTONE EVENT       (PRIMARY PRODUCT)   (SECONDARY PRODUCT)
- -------------------------   -----------------   -------------------
                                             
[*]                               US$[*]               US$[*]

[*]                               US$[*]               US$[*]

[*]                               US$[*]               US$[*]

[*]                               US$[*]               US$[*]

[*]                               US$[*]               US$[*]

[*]                               US$[*]               US$[*]

[*]                               US$[*]               US$[*]

[*]                               US$[*]               US$[*]

TOTAL                             US$[*]               US$[*]

[*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       15

(b)   Notwithstanding Section 4.3(a) but subject to Section 4.3(g) and Section
      5.9, in the event that either:

      (i)   a Primary Product has a black box warning, in the US or the European
            Union, in its label at time of Launch in the US or the European
            Union, respectively, or receives one during its first [*] after
            Launch in the US or the European Union, respectively;

      (ii)  a "Dear Doctor" letter is issued in the US or the European Union,
            respectively, in relation to such Primary Product during such
            period;

      (iii) a Primary Product is not the first or second PDE10 inhibitor or
            modulator (excluding any Secondary Product) having regulatory
            approval for the treatment of [*] in the US or the European Union,
            respectively; or

      (iv)  a third PDE10 inhibitor or modulator (excluding any Product) having
            regulatory approval for the treatment of [*] launches in the US or
            the European Union, respectively, during the [*] period following
            the Launch of the Primary Product in the US or the European Union,
            respectively,

      then with respect to any such event in the US the milestone payment
      payable for such Primary Product upon approval of an NDA for such Primary
      Product in the US shall be reduced to $[*] (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, if
      such event occurs with respect to the US within [*] after Launch in the US
      then Amgen shall be entitled to deduct $[*] from subsequent payments of
      royalties to Memory), and with respect to any such event in the European
      Union the milestone payment payable for such Primary Product upon approval
      of an NDA for such Primary Product in the European Union shall be reduced
      to $[*] (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, if such event occurs with respect to the
      European Union within [*] after Launch in the European Union then Amgen
      shall be entitled to deduct $[*] from subsequent payments of royalties to
      Memory).

(c)   Notwithstanding Section 4.3(a) but subject to Section 4.3(g) and Section
      5.9, in the event that either:

      (i)   a Secondary Product has a black box warning, in the US or the
            European Union, in its label at time of Launch in the US or the
            European Union, respectively, or receives one during its first [*]
            after Launch in the US or the European Union, respectively;

      (ii)  a "Dear Doctor" letter is issued in the US or the European Union,
            respectively, in relation to such Secondary Product during such
            period;

      (iii) a Secondary Product is not the first or second PDE10 inhibitor or
            modulator having regulatory approval for the treatment of [*] in the
            US or the European Union, respectively; or

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       16

(iv)  a third PDE10 inhibitor or modulator (excluding any Product) having
            regulatory approval for the treatment of [*] launches in the US or
            the European Union, respectively, during the [*] period following
            the Launch of the Secondary Product in the US or the European Union,
            respectively,

      then with respect to any such event in the US the milestone payment
      payable for such Secondary Product upon approval of an NDA for such
      Secondary Product in the US shall be reduced to $[*] (PROVIDED, HOWEVER,
      that, if such event occurs with respect to the US within [*] after Launch
      in the US then Amgen shall be entitled to deduct $[*] from subsequent
      payments of royalties to Memory), and with respect to any such event in
      the European Union the milestone payment payable for such Secondary
      Product upon approval of an NDA for such Secondary Product in the European
      Union shall be reduced to $[*] (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, if such event
      occurs with respect to the European Union within [*] after Launch in the
      European Union then Amgen shall be entitled to deduct $[*] from subsequent
      payments of royalties to Memory).

(d)

      (i)   Upon the occurrence of a milestone event, Amgen shall promptly
            notify Memory of such occurrence, and Memory will invoice Amgen for
            the related payment. Such payment shall be due and payable by Amgen
            within [*] days after receipt of the applicable invoice from Memory.

      (ii)  Notwithstanding Section 4.3(d)(i), except as provided in the next
            sentence, a Product that includes, in whole or as a component
            thereof, a Collaboration Compound shall be presumed to be a
            Secondary Product until such time as it is determined to be a
            Primary Product. An inhibitor or modulator of PDE10 comprising a
            composition of matter claimed in a patent application within a
            Memory Patent Right or a Joint Patent Right shall, prior to Launch,
            be presumed to be a Primary Product.

      (iii) If at the time of Launch no Valid Claim under a Memory Patent Right
            or a Composition of Matter Claim Covers such Product, then, subject
            to Section 5.9, Amgen shall be entitled to deduct from subsequent
            payments of royalties to Memory the difference between the milestone
            payments actually paid for such Product and the milestone payments
            that would have otherwise been paid for such Product, if any, by
            Amgen but for the presumption provided for in Section 4.3(d)(ii).

      (iv)  If a Valid Claim under a Memory Patent Right or a Composition of
            Matter Claim subsequently Covers such Product, then Amgen shall
            promptly reimburse Memory for the amounts deducted pursuant to
            Section 4.3(d)(iii).

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       17

(v)   Amgen shall only be obligated to make each milestone payment
                  once, for the first occurrence of a respective event,
                  regardless of how many times the event may be subsequently
                  achieved with one or more Products.

            (vi)  If Amgen's obligation to pay Memory for an occurrence of an
                  event for a Secondary Product arises, and subsequently,
                  Amgen's obligation to pay Memory for an occurrence of a
                  corresponding event for a Primary Product should arise, then
                  Amgen shall be required to pay Memory, promptly after such
                  occurrence of the corresponding event for a Primary Product,
                  an amount equal to the difference between the amount payable
                  for such event for a Primary Product and the amount previously
                  paid for such event as a Secondary Product. Accordingly,
                  should Amgen's obligation to pay Memory for an occurrence of
                  an event for a Primary Product arise, then Amgen's obligation
                  to pay Memory for a corresponding event for a Secondary
                  Product shall expire.

      (e)   In the event that a milestone event relating to clinical development
            is achieved and payment with respect to the previous milestone
            event(s) has not been made by Amgen, then Amgen shall promptly pay
            Memory all such unpaid payments with respect to such previous
            milestone event(s).

      (f)   In no event shall Amgen be obligated to pay to Memory milestone
            payments in excess of $[*] in the aggregate for the achievement of
            all milestone events, regardless of how many times milestone events
            are achieved and regardless of whether they are achieved by Primary
            Products, Secondary Products or both.

      (g)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4.3, if
            during any Calendar Year after the Launch of a Product with respect
            to which the milestone payments have been reduced pursuant to
            Section 4.3(b) or (c) hereof the annual worldwide Net Sales of such
            Product exceed US$[*], Amgen shall promptly pay to Memory the amount
            of such reduction in the milestone payments, but in any event within
            [*] days following the end of such Calendar Year.

                              ARTICLE 5. ROYALTIES

5.1   Royalties Payable by Amgen.

      (a)   Primary Products. With respect to each Calendar Year (or portion
            thereof) during the Royalty Term of a Primary Product, Amgen shall
            pay to Memory royalties on total annual Net Sales of such Primary
            Product in such Calendar Year (or portion thereof) by Amgen, its
            Affiliates and its sublicensees, which royalties shall be at the
            following rates:

            (i)   [*] percent ([*]%) of that portion of such total annual Net
                  Sales of such Product that is less than or equal to US$[*];

            (ii)  [*] percent ([*]%) of that portion of such total annual Net
                  Sales of such Product that is greater than US$[*] and less
                  than or equal to US$[*]; and

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       18

(iii) [*] percent ([*]%) of that portion of such total annual Net
                  Sales of such Product that is greater than US$[*].

      (b)   Secondary Products. With respect to each Calendar Year (or portion
            thereof) during the Royalty Term of a Secondary Product, Amgen shall
            pay to Memory royalties on total annual Net Sales of such Secondary
            Product in such Calendar Year (or portion thereof) by Amgen, its
            Affiliates and its sublicensees, which royalties shall be at the
            following rates:

            (i)   [*] percent ([*]%) of that portion of such total annual Net
                  Sales of such Product that is less than or equal to US$[*];

            (ii)  [*] percent ([*]%) of that portion of such total annual Net
                  Sales of such Product that is greater than US$[*] and less
                  than or equal to US$[*]; and

            (iii) [*] percent ([*]%) of that portion of such total annual Net
                  Sales of such Product that is greater than US$[*].

      (c)   Subsequent Events. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Product may
            change from time to time from a Primary Product to a Secondary
            Product and vice versa. Royalties for Primary Products shall be
            payable at the applicable rates set forth in Section 5.1(a) until
            the beginning of the first Calendar Quarter following the Calendar
            Quarter in which such Product has been determined to be a Secondary
            Product at which time royalties for such Product shall be payable at
            the applicable rates set forth in Section 5.1(b), and royalties for
            Secondary Products shall be payable at the applicable rates set
            forth in Section 5.1(b) until the beginning of the first Calendar
            Quarter following the Calendar Quarter in which such Product has
            been determined to be a Primary Product at which time royalties for
            such Product shall be payable at the applicable rates set forth in
            Section 5.1(a).

5.2   Royalty Term; Royalty Rate; Net Sales. Royalties for sales of any Product
      shall be paid for a period equal to the Royalty Term for such Product. If
      a Memory Patent Right or a Joint Patent Right has been found to be
      unpatentable, invalid or unenforceable by a court or other authority of
      competent jurisdiction in the country in which a Patent Right has issued,
      as a result of which Amgen is no longer required to pay royalties for a
      Product in such country, and subsequently such ruling is reversed upon
      appeal and such Patent Right is thereafter not subject to such
      determination of unpatentability, invalidity or unenforceability, then
      [*]. The royalty rates set forth above shall be determined on a
      Product-by-Product basis. [*] Nothing contained in this Section 5.2 shall
      affect the obligations of Amgen under Section 3.1. Additionally, when
      determining annual Net Sales of any given Product, the total annual Net
      Sales of such Product shall be the total annual Net Sales of such Product
      in all countries in which the Royalty Term is in effect for such Product
      (and shall only include sales made while such Royalty Term is in effect).

5.3      Third Party Licenses. If Amgen reasonably determines, in its reasonable
         discretion, that in order to avoid the potential infringement of the
         patent or know-how rights of a Third

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       19

Party or Third Parties one or more licenses to access such intellectual
      property rights of a Third Party or Third Parties are required for Amgen,
      its Affiliates and/or its sublicensees to research, develop, make, have
      made, use, import, offer to sell and/or sell, export or otherwise exploit,
      or transfer physical possession of or title in a Product ("THIRD PARTY
      LICENSE(s)"), then [*] of any compensation (including, without limitation,
      up-front payments, milestones and royalties) actually paid by Amgen, its
      Affiliates and/or sublicensees with respect to such Product under any such
      Third Party License(s) entered into by Amgen, its Affiliates or
      sublicensees shall be creditable against the royalty payments to be paid
      to Memory by Amgen hereunder with respect to the sale of such Product;
      PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the royalty rates due to Memory under Section
      5.1(a) in any given Calendar Year will not be reduced to less than [*];
      FURTHER PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the royalty rates due to Memory under
      Section 5.1(b) in any given Calendar Year will not be reduced to less than
      [*].

5.4   Cumulative Royalties. The obligation under Section 5.1 to pay royalties on
      the Net Sales of a Product shall be imposed only once with respect to the
      same unit of said Product.

5.5   No Other Compensation. Other than as explicitly set forth (and as
      applicable) in this Article 5, and in Article 4 and Section 7.3, Amgen
      shall not be obligated to pay any additional fees, milestone payments,
      royalties or any other compensation to Memory under this Agreement.

5.6   Cross License. In the event that Amgen, in its sole business judgment,
      shall determine it is reasonably necessary to grant a sublicense, or a
      covenant not to sue, under Memory Patent Rights claiming a Product or
      method of using a Product, to any Third Party in a country in order for
      Amgen to obtain the right to make, have made, use, sell, lease, offer to
      sell or lease, or import, export or otherwise exploit, transfer physical
      possession of or otherwise transfer title in such Product in the Field in
      any case where any one or more such activities by Amgen, its Affiliates or
      sublicensees otherwise may infringe the intellectual property rights of
      such Third Party, and wherein no compensation or consideration other than
      the cross-licenses is exchanged between Amgen and such Third Party as a
      result thereof, Amgen shall have the right to grant such sublicense or
      covenant not to sue to such Third Party solely in connection with the
      manufacture, use, sale or other commercialization of an inhibitor or
      modulator of PDE10. For purposes of this Section 5.6, the determination of
      Net Sales of Products for purposes of calculating the royalties payable by
      Amgen to Memory under Section 5.1 shall not include sales of such
      inhibitor or modulator of PDE10 by or on behalf of such Third Party (or
      its Affiliates or sublicensees) receiving such sublicense or covenant not
      to sue.

5.7   Adjustments Related to Third Party Competition.

      (a)   For a given Primary Product in a given Calendar Quarter, if, in
            addition to such Primary Product, there are [*] PDE10 inhibitors or
            modulators (excluding any Product) having regulatory approval for
            the treatment of [*] in the US, then Amgen shall have the right to
            reduce for the entire Territory the applicable royalty rate provided
            for under Section 5.1(a) to [*] percent ([*]%) of the applicable Net
            Sales in clause (i), [*] percent ([*]%) of the applicable Net

                    [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       20

Sales in clause (ii), and [*] percent ([*]%) of the applicable Net
            Sales in clause (iii).

      (b)   Additionally, so long as there are [*] PDE10 inhibitors or
            modulators (excluding any Product) having regulatory approval for
            the treatment of [*] in the US, the minimum royalty rates provided
            for under Section 5.3 due to Memory for royalties payable under
            Section 5.1(a) in any given Calendar Year may be further reduced by
            Amgen to not less than [*] percent ([*]%) of the applicable annual
            Net Sales in clause (i), [*] percent ([*]%) of the applicable annual
            Net Sales in clause (ii), and [*] percent ([*]%) of the applicable
            annual Net Sales in clause (iii).

      (c)   For a given Secondary Product in a given Calendar Quarter, if, in
            addition to such Secondary Product, there are [*] PDE10 inhibitors
            or modulators (excluding any Product) having regulatory approval for
            the treatment of [*] in the US, then Amgen shall have the right to
            reduce for the entire Territory the applicable royalty rate provided
            for under Section 5.1(b) to [*] percent ([*]%) of the applicable Net
            Sales in clause (i), [*] percent ([*]%) of the applicable Net Sales
            in clause (ii), and [*] percent ([*]%) of the applicable Net Sales
            in clause (iii).

      (d)   Additionally, so long as there are [*] PDE10 inhibitors or
            modulators (excluding any Product) having regulatory approval for
            the treatment of [*] in the US, the minimum royalty rates provided
            for under Section 5.3 due to Memory for royalties payable under
            Section 5.1(b) in any given Calendar Year may be further reduced by
            Amgen to not less than [*] percent ([*]%) of the applicable annual
            Net Sales in clause (i), [*] percent ([*]%) of the applicable annual
            Net Sales in clause (ii), and [*] percent ([*]%) of the applicable
            annual Net Sales in clause (iii).

      (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.7, if
            during any Calendar Year after the Launch of a Product, the annual
            worldwide Net Sales of such Product exceed US$[*], the reductions
            provided for in this Section 5.7 as to such Product shall terminate
            for the Calendar Year in which such Net Sales amount is achieved and
            all future Calendar Years.

5.8   Adjustments Related to Black Box Label and "Dear Doctor" letters.

      (a)   For a given Primary Product in a given Calendar Quarter in which
            there is a black box warning in the US as referred to in clause (1)
            below or a "Dear Doctor" letter in the US as referred to in clause
            (2) below (and for every Calendar Quarter thereafter until and
            unless such black box warning or "Dear Doctor" letter is removed or
            withdrawn), if, (1) in the US the Primary Product has a black box
            warning in its label or (2) there should be any "Dear Doctor"
            letters issued in the US regarding such Primary Product, Amgen shall
            have the right to reduce for the entire Territory the applicable
            royalty rate provided for under Section 5.1(a) to [*] percent ([*]%)
            of the applicable Net Sales in clause (i), [*] percent ([*]%) of the
            applicable Net Sales in clause (ii), and [*] percent ([*]%) of the
            applicable Net Sales in clause (iii).

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       21

(b)   Additionally, during the continuance of a black box warning in the
            US or a "Dear Doctor" letter in the US, the minimum royalty rates
            provided for under Section 5.3 due to Memory for royalties payable
            under Section 5.1(a) in any given Calendar Year may be further
            reduced by Amgen to not less than [*] percent ([*]%) of the
            applicable annual Net Sales in clause (i), [*] percent ([*]%) of the
            applicable annual Net Sales in clause (ii), and [*] percent ([*]%)
            of the applicable annual Net Sales in clause (iii).

      (c)   For a given Secondary Product in a given Calendar Quarter in which
            there is a black box warning in the US as referred to in clause (1)
            below or a "Dear Doctor" letter in the US as referred to in clause
            (2) below (and for every Calendar Quarter thereafter until and
            unless such black box warning or "Dear Doctor" letter is removed or
            withdrawn), if, (1) in the US the Secondary Product has a black box
            warning in its label or (2) there should be any "Dear Doctor"
            letters issued in the US regarding such Secondary Product, Amgen
            shall have the right to reduce for the entire Territory the
            applicable royalty rate provided for under Section 5.1(b) to [*]
            percent ([*]%) of the applicable Net Sales in clause (i), [*]
            percent ([*]%) of the applicable Net Sales in clause (ii), and [*]
            percent ([*]%) of the applicable Net Sales in clause (iii).

      (d)   Additionally, during the continuance of a black box warning in the
            US or a "Dear Doctor" letter in the US, the minimum royalty rates
            provided for under Section 5.3 due to Memory for royalties payable
            under Section 5.1(b) in any given Calendar Year may be further
            reduced by Amgen to not less than [*] percent ([*]%) of the
            applicable annual Net Sales in clause (i), [*] percent ([*]%) of the
            applicable annual Net Sales in clause (ii), and [*] percent ([*]%)
            of the applicable annual Net Sales in clause (iii).

      (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.8, if
            during any Calendar Year after the Launch of a Product, the annual
            worldwide Net Sales of such Product exceed US$[*], the reductions
            provided for in this Section 5.8 as to such Product shall terminate
            for the Calendar Year in which such Net Sales amount is achieved and
            all future Calendar Years.

5.9   Maximum Aggregate Deductions. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of
      this Article 5, and/or any credit or deduction to which Amgen is entitled
      pursuant to Section 4.3 hereof, under no circumstances shall the royalty
      rates provided for in this Agreement, after taking into account all
      possible reductions pursuant to this Article 5 and/or Section 4.3, be less
      than (a) for Primary Products, [*]% of the applicable annual Net Sales in
      clause (i) of Section 5.1(a), [*]% of the applicable annual Net Sales in
      clause (ii) of Section 5.1(a), and [*]% of the applicable annual Net Sales
      in clause (iii) of Section 5.1(a), and (b) for Secondary Products, [*]% of
      the applicable annual Net Sales in clause (i) of Section 5.1(b), [*]% of
      the applicable annual Net Sales in clause (ii) of Section 5.1(b), and [*]%
      of the applicable annual Net Sales in clause (iii) of Section 5.1(b). Any
      remaining credit Amgen is entitled to receive pursuant to Section 4.3
      hereof shall carry forward to the following Calendar Year until such time
      as the remaining credit has been received in full. This Section 5.9 shall
      not limit Amgen's right to off-set against any

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       22

payments due from Amgen hereunder any credit for overpayment under Section
      6.5 hereof.

                     ARTICLE 6. PAYMENT, REPORTING, AUDITING

6.1   Payment; Reports. Beginning with the Calendar Quarter after the Launch of
      the first Product until the expiration of Amgen's obligation to pay
      royalties hereunder, royalty payments and reports of the sale of Products
      for each Calendar Quarter will be calculated and delivered to Memory under
      this Agreement within [*] days of the end of each such Calendar Quarter.
      Each payment of royalties will be accompanied by a report of Net Sales of
      Products stating: (a) Net Sales of Products, on a Product-by-Product and
      country-by-country basis, during the applicable Calendar Quarter within
      the Field in the Territory; and (b) a calculation of the royalty payment
      due hereunder for such Calendar Quarter (a "ROYALTY REPORT").

6.2   Invoices. All invoices submitted by Memory to Amgen shall be addressed to:

         Amgen
         Accounts Payable

         [*]

      Invoices not submitted to the foregoing address will be subject to delay
      or return. In addition, each invoice should reference an applicable
      purchase order number to be provided by Amgen.

6.3   Exchange Rate; Manner and Place of Payment.

      (a)   All payments hereunder will be payable in U.S. dollars. With respect
            to Net Sales invoiced or expenses incurred in U.S. dollars, the Net
            Sales or expense due to the receiving Party hereunder shall be
            expressed in U.S. dollars. With respect to Net Sales invoiced or
            expenses incurred in a currency other than U.S. dollars, the Net
            Sales invoiced or expenses incurred shall be converted into the US
            dollar equivalent using a rate of exchange which corresponds to the
            rate used by Amgen, for the respective reporting period, related to
            recording such Net Sales in its books and records that are
            maintained in accordance with GAAP. All payments shall be made in
            U.S. dollars. If at any time legal restrictions in any country in
            the Territory prevent the prompt remittance of any payments with
            respect to sales in that country, the paying Party shall have the
            right and option to make such payments by depositing the amount
            thereof in local currency to the receiving Party's account in a bank
            or depository in such country. Amgen will deliver to Memory proper
            evidence of such deposit. As soon as practicable thereafter, Amgen
            shall transfer such deposited payment to Memory or, upon the request
            of Memory, to an account of Memory at a commercial bank within the
            applicable country.

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       23

(b)   All payments owed under this Agreement will be made by wire transfer
            in immediately available funds to a bank account designated in
            writing by Memory, unless otherwise specified by Memory.

6.4   Taxes. Memory shall provide Amgen with a completed Form W-9 and an
      electronic funds transfer form (which form has been provided by Amgen to
      Memory on or prior to the date hereof) within ten (10) days of the
      Effective Date.

6.5   Audits.

      (a)   Amgen will keep, and will cause its Affiliates and sublicensees to
            keep, complete and accurate records pertaining to the sale of
            Products in sufficient detail to permit Memory to confirm the
            accuracy of all payments due hereunder, and such records will be
            open to inspection for [*] years following the end of the period to
            which they pertain. Not more than once in any [*] consecutive
            Calendar Quarters, Memory will have the right to cause an
            independent, certified public accountant reasonably acceptable to
            Amgen to audit such records to confirm Net Sales and royalty and
            other payments for a period covering not more than the preceding [*]
            Calendar Years; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, the records for any
            particular Calendar Year shall not be subject to more than one audit
            hereunder.

      (b)   Such audits may be exercised during normal business hours upon
            reasonable prior written notice to Amgen (but in no event less than
            [*] days prior written notice). Memory shall submit an audit plan,
            including audit scope, to Amgen for Amgen's approval, which shall
            not be unreasonably withheld, prior to audit implementation. The
            parties shall cooperate in all reasonable respects relating to the
            amicable resolution of any objections Amgen may have to any audit
            plan.

      (c)   The independent certified public accountant shall keep confidential
            any information obtained during such inspection and shall report to
            Memory only the amounts of Net Sales and royalties due and payable,
            but may include, in the event such accountant shall be unable to
            verify the correctness of any such payment, information relating to
            why such payment is unverifiable. Amgen shall receive a copy of each
            such report concurrently with receipt by Memory. In the event that
            such payment is unverifiable, Amgen and Memory shall use good faith
            efforts to arrive at an equitable solution. Memory shall bear the
            full cost of such audit unless such audit discloses an underpayment
            of more than [*] percent ([*]%) from the aggregate amount of
            royalties or other payments due for the period audited. In such
            case, Amgen shall bear the full cost of such certified public
            accountant, to the extent such costs are reasonable and customary,
            to perform such audit and will promptly remit to Memory the amount
            of any underpayment. Conversely, if the audit reveals any
            overpayment by Amgen, the amount of such overpayment shall be
            creditable against any other amounts otherwise due from Amgen to
            Memory hereunder (or, if further payments otherwise due hereunder
            from Amgen to Memory are insufficient to fully use up such credit,
            Memory shall promptly reimburse Amgen for any remaining amount).
            Upon the expiration of [*] years following the end of any Calendar
            Year, except with respect to any specific claims

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       24

for additional royalty payments that result from an audit that was
            initiated prior to the expiration of such [*] year period pursuant
            to Section 6.5(a) but not yet completed [*], and except for royalty
            payments acknowledged by Amgen to be payable and not paid, the
            calculation of royalties payable with respect to such year shall be
            binding and conclusive upon Memory, and Amgen and its Affiliates and
            sublicensees shall be released from any liability or accountability
            with respect to royalties for such year, and Amgen shall no longer
            be required to retain such records for such year. The independent
            certified public accountant shall be required to execute a
            confidential disclosure agreement reasonably satisfactory to Amgen
            prior to performing any audit procedures or receiving any
            information from Amgen.

6.6   Confidentiality. Memory shall treat all financial information subject to
      review under this Article 6, or under any related sublicense agreement, as
      Amgen's Confidential Information, and shall cause its accounting firm to
      be bound to obligations of confidentiality with respect to such
      information at least as restrictive as Memory's obligations of
      confidentiality in this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE 7. THE RESEARCH COLLABORATION

7.1   The Research Collaboration.

      (a)   The Parties agree to conduct a Research Collaboration in accordance
            with the Research Workplan. The goal of the Research Collaboration
            shall be to [*] lead series of Memory Compounds (as described in
            Schedule 7.1) and [*].

      (b)   (i) The original term of the Research Collaboration shall be for a
            period of two (2) years from the beginning of the Research
            Collaboration as set forth in the Research Workplan ("ORIGINAL
            TERM"), unless this Agreement is terminated sooner in accordance
            with Article 12 or the Research Term is extended pursuant to Section
            12.4. Except as provided in Article 12, neither Party may terminate
            the Research Collaboration.

            (ii) The Original Term of the Research Collaboration may be extended
            by mutual written agreement of the Parties prior to the expiration
            of the Original Term.

            (iii) The total time period during which the Research Collaboration
            is ongoing, including any extensions of the Original Term, is the
            "RESEARCH TERM."

      (c)   As soon as is reasonably possible, but in no event later than thirty
            (30) days after the Effective Date, Memory shall deliver to Amgen
            the Materials listed on Schedule 1.42 attached to this Agreement, as
            well as any other Memory Technology (including protocols for
            applicable in vivo behavioral assays) (the "TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER");
            PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that animals and/or other physical materials for
            performing such in vivo behavioral assays are not required to be

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       25

delivered within such thirty (30) day period after the Effective
            Date and such delivery is not a condition to Amgen's obligations
            under Section 4.1. Promptly after completing the Technology Transfer
            Memory shall provide Amgen with written notice of the completion
            thereof. Thereafter, to the extent reasonably requested by Amgen in
            connection with its research, development, and/or commercialization
            of any Compounds or Products, Memory shall, where it Controls the
            relevant Compounds and/or Material, provide reasonable quantities of
            physical samples of such Compounds and/or other Materials that are
            in Memory's possession that are necessary or useful to the Research
            Collaboration (including animals and/or other physical materials for
            performing in vivo behavioral assays). In addition, prior to Launch
            of the first Product, Memory shall promptly notify Amgen of any
            Memory Technology obtained and Controlled by Memory that is
            reasonably necessary for the research, development, and/or
            commercialization of any Product. Further, Memory shall deliver to
            Amgen such Memory Technology described in the preceding sentence as
            Amgen may reasonably request from time to time and such Memory
            Technology shall be used solely as permitted under Section 2.1 of
            the Agreement.

7.2   Joint Research Committee. A JRC shall govern the Research Collaboration.

      (a)   Organization. The JRC shall consist of six (6) members, three (3)
            members to be designated by Amgen and three (3) members to be
            designated by Memory. Each Party shall notify the other Party of the
            member(s) designated by such Party, in writing, within thirty (30)
            days after the Effective Date. The Committee shall function only
            during the Research Term unless otherwise agreed by the Parties. Any
            Party may withdraw the designation of any of its members of the JRC
            and designate a replacement at any time by giving prior written
            notice of the withdrawal and identifying the replacement to the
            other Party. The chairperson of the JRC shall be from Amgen.

      (b)   Meetings. The JRC shall hold [*] meetings on mutually agreeable
            dates during the Research Term, with the location of the meetings to
            [*]. The frequency and location of such meetings may be modified by
            mutual agreement of the Parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
            [*] meetings may be held by teleconference or videoconference. Each
            Party shall pay its own expenses associated with the meetings. Each
            Party may, in its discretion, invite non-member employees
            ("invitee") to attend meetings of the JRC.

      (c)   Decision-Making. Decisions of the JRC shall be by consensus, with
            each Party having one collective vote. If the JRC is unable to
            decide a matter by consensus, then the final decision shall [*],
            PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that no such decision on any matter may be
            inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement or have the
            effect of increasing the economic burdens, including unfunded FTE
            burdens, of Memory (except for any increases which in the aggregate
            are immaterial).

      (d)   Sharing of Information. On a regular basis during the Research Term,
            the Parties will exchange a summary report describing new
            discoveries and data generated

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       26

under the Research Collaboration. Additionally, during the Research
            Term, the Parties will exchange the raw data obtained from the
            primary in vitro potency screen within the Memory Screening
            Technology that relate to inhibitors or modulators of PDE10,
            reasonably promptly after such data are obtained.

7.3   Research Support.

      (a)   Subject to Sections 7.3(d), 7.3(e) and 7.3(f), for the first year of
            the Research Term, Amgen shall, in support of Memory's efforts under
            the Research Collaboration, make research funding payments to Memory
            for [*] FTEs at the FTE Rate [*]. Within [*] days before the end of
            the first year of the Research Collaboration the Parties shall meet
            to review (i) the progress of the Research Collaboration, (ii) the
            goals for the following year, (iii) [*]. Within [*] days before the
            end of the first year of the Research Collaboration, Amgen shall
            inform Memory of the number of Memory FTEs that Amgen will agree to
            reimburse for the following year. If Amgen notifies Memory that the
            number of FTEs that Amgen will fund for the second year of the
            Research Term will be less than [*] FTEs, then the time period
            referenced in Section 1.10(c) and 1.60(c) shall be deemed to be [*]
            years instead of [*] years.

      (b)   In the event that Amgen terminates this Agreement pursuant to
            Section 12.3 (other than for safety reasons as provided for in
            Section 12.3) during the first year of the Research Term, Amgen
            shall pay to Memory an amount equal to [*] multiplied by the FTE
            Rate, less any amounts previously paid by Amgen to Memory related to
            research funding in such first year (with any payments for work
            performed by permitted subcontractors pursuant to Section 7.3(f)
            counted as if Amgen paid the FTE Rate for such hours), plus an
            amount equal to [*] under the Research Collaboration (with any
            payments for work performed by permitted subcontractors pursuant to
            Section 7.3(f) counted as if Amgen paid the FTE Rate for such hours)
            (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if [*]. In the event that Amgen terminates
            this Agreement pursuant to Section 12.3 (other than for safety
            reasons as provided for in Section 12.3) during the second year of
            the Research Term, Amgen shall pay to Memory an amount equal to the
            lesser of (a) [*] of the research funding required to be paid by
            Amgen for FTEs for the second year of the Research Term under the
            Research Collaboration (with any payments for work performed by
            permitted subcontractors pursuant to Section 7.3(f) counted as if
            Amgen paid the FTE Rate for such hours), or (b) the [*]. In
            addition, consistent with the provisions of Section 12.6, Amgen will
            also pay any amounts related to research funding for FTEs allocated
            for such second year that has accrued but not yet been paid.

      (c)   Memory shall invoice Amgen not earlier than [*] days before the
            beginning of each Calendar Quarter during the Original Term for the
            number of FTEs expected to be dedicated to performance of the
            Research Collaboration during such Calendar Quarter consistent with
            the Research Workplan. Payment of each invoice shall be due within
            [*] days following Amgen's receipt of an invoice indicating the
            appropriate amount. Unless agreed to by Amgen in writing such
            invoice shall not exceed [*] of the annual amount of FTE funding for
            such year,

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       27

but in no event shall the annual amount increase beyond the number
            of FTEs allocated for such year.

      (d)   Amgen shall only be required to reimburse Memory for the lesser of
            (i) the number of FTEs set forth in Section 7.3(a) and (ii) the
            number of FTEs Memory actually dedicates to the performance of the
            Research Collaboration. Memory shall deliver written reports
            (certified to his or her actual knowledge by an officer of Memory)
            to Amgen on a quarterly basis within [*] days after the end of such
            Calendar Quarter setting forth the number of FTEs actually dedicated
            by Memory to the performance of the Research Collaboration and a
            summary of all such FTE-funded Research Collaboration activities
            during such Calendar Quarter. In the event that Amgen has overpaid
            Memory for FTEs in any Calendar Quarter, then Amgen shall be
            entitled to deduct any amounts to be paid to Memory under this
            Section 7.3 for FTEs in any subsequent Calendar Quarter (unless such
            overpayment is made in the last Calendar Quarter of the Research
            Term, in which event, Memory shall refund such overpayment to
            Amgen).

      (e)   Memory shall maintain complete and accurate records in sufficient
            detail to permit an audit of the number of hours worked and work
            performed in the Research Collaboration by Memory. During the
            Research Term and for a period of [*] years thereafter, Amgen shall
            have the right to cause an independent certified public accountant,
            [*] that has not directly or indirectly performed any work with
            respect to PDE10, including any work with respect to the Research
            Collaboration (collectively, "AMGEN AUDIT REPRESENTATIVE") that is
            reasonably acceptable to Memory, at Amgen's sole cost, in order to
            verify the accuracy and completeness of the foregoing FTE reports.
            Such audit may be exercised during normal business hours upon
            reasonable prior written notice to Memory (but in no event less than
            [*] days prior written notice). Such Amgen Audit Representative
            performing the audit shall be required to execute a confidential
            disclosure agreement reasonably satisfactory to Memory prior to
            performing any audit procedures or receiving any information from
            Memory. Memory shall receive a copy of each such report concurrently
            with receipt by Amgen. Amgen shall bear the full cost of such audit
            unless such audit discloses an overpayment of more than [*] of the
            aggregate amount of payments due for the period audited. In such
            case, Memory shall bear the full cost of such audit, to the extent
            such costs are reasonable and customary, to perform such audit and
            will promptly remit to Amgen the amount of any overpayment.
            Conversely, if the audit reveals any underpayment by Amgen, the
            amount of such underpayment shall be promptly paid by Amgen to
            Memory (but in no event shall Amgen be required to pay Memory in
            excess of the amounts set forth in Section 7.3(a)). Upon the
            expiration of [*] years following the end of any Calendar Year,
            except with respect to any specific claims for overpayment of
            research funding that result from an audit that was initiated prior
            to the expiration of such [*] year period but not yet completed [*],
            the calculation of research funding payable with respect to such
            year shall be binding and conclusive upon Amgen and Memory shall be
            released from any liability or accountability with respect to any
            potential claims that research funding was overpaid for such year,

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       28

and Memory shall no longer be required to retain such records for
            such year. The Amgen Audit Representative shall agree with Memory
            to, and shall, keep confidential any information obtained during
            such inspection and shall report to Amgen only the amount due and
            payable with respect to FTEs, but may include, in the event such
            Amgen Audit Representative shall be unable to verify the correctness
            of any such payment, information relating to why such payment is
            unverifiable. Memory shall receive a copy of each such report
            concurrently with receipt by Amgen. Amgen shall cause the Amgen
            Audit Representative to treat all information subject to review
            under this Section 7.3 as Memory's Confidential Information, and
            shall cause its accounting firm or external scientific advisor(s) to
            be bound to obligations of confidentiality with respect to such
            information at least as restrictive as Amgen's obligations of
            confidentiality in this Agreement.

      (f)   Memory shall not be permitted to subcontract work to be performed by
            Memory under the Research Collaboration without Amgen's prior
            written approval such approval not to be unreasonably withheld
            provided existing work subcontracted as of the date hereof and
            listed on Schedule 7.3(f) shall not require such consent. Any work
            performed under the Research Collaboration by permitted
            subcontractors shall be reimbursed by Amgen at the actual
            out-of-pocket cost to Memory paid to such subcontractors for such
            work or, if less, at the FTE Rate. Any hours of work performed by
            permitted subcontractors under the Research Collaboration shall
            count towards the total FTE hours for which Amgen is required to
            compensate Memory pursuant to Section 7.3(a).

7.4   Progress Reports. Following each [*] meeting of the JRC, the chairperson
      of the JRC shall prepare a report summarizing the discussions held and
      conclusions reached and setting forth plans for the Research Collaboration
      for the next [*].

7.5   Acknowledgment of Obligations. Except to the extent already bound by
      similar general obligations at least as restrictive as those provided for
      under this Agreement, each Party will cause each of its and its Affiliates
      FTEs, as specified in the Research Workplan, prior to and as a condition
      of participating in the Research Collaboration, to review and acknowledge
      in writing that they understand and agree to abide by the terms and
      conditions of this Agreement related to the Research Collaboration
      (Article 7), Intellectual Property and Patent Rights (Article 9), and
      Confidential Information (Article 11, specifically as related to
      non-disclosure and non-use restrictions).

7.6   Screening. During the Agreement Term, Amgen shall have the right to [*].

7.7   Research Results. On a regular basis, but no less frequently than [*],
      Memory will keep Amgen fully informed as to all data, discoveries and
      technical developments made in its performance of activities relating to
      the Research Collaboration. In addition, no later than [*] days after the
      end of the Research Term, and at such other times as Amgen may reasonably
      request, Memory will provide Amgen with a written summary of all data,
      discoveries and technical developments made in its performance of
      activities relating to the Research Collaboration and any other
      information in its possession reasonably related to the Research
      Collaboration. Upon request by Amgen, Memory will provide Amgen

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       29

with copies of all data, discoveries and technical developments, including
      all Collaboration Technology, Know-How and Inventions arising out of
      Memory's performance of the Research Collaboration, and/or the opportunity
      at reasonable times and upon reasonable advance notice to examine
      originals thereof at Memory's facilities at any time during the Agreement
      Term.

 ARTICLE 8. DEVELOPMENT, REGULATORY MATTERS, MANUFACTURING AND COMMERCIALIZATION

Subject to Section 3.1 hereof, Amgen shall have sole and full control,
authority, discretion and right to conduct (by itself, through its Affiliates or
via a Third Party), at its own expense, and make all decisions regarding all
development, regulatory matters (including interaction with all governmental
authorities and preparation of any regulatory filings), manufacturing, and
commercialization (including determination of price, sales and distribution,
packaging, labeling, language to be included on the package insert, promotion,
reimbursement matters, detailing and selection of trademarks and phase 4
clinical trials) for each Product. Reasonably promptly after [*], Amgen shall
provide Memory with a written summary of material development and regulatory
events related to its PDE10 program subject to this Agreement.

               ARTICLE 9. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PATENT RIGHTS

9.1   Ownership of Technology. As between the Parties, Memory shall own all
      Memory Inventions and Memory Know-How, Amgen shall own all Amgen
      Inventions and Amgen Know-How, and Memory and Amgen shall jointly own all
      Joint Inventions, Joint Patent Rights and Collaboration Technology. Memory
      shall have the right to use the Collaboration Technology (i) during the
      Agreement Term, solely for the purpose of performing its obligations under
      this Agreement and as provided for under Section 2.1 and (ii) after the
      Agreement Term, as Memory may in its sole discretion elect from time to
      time (subject to any provisions of Article 11). Each Party shall require
      all of its employees, consultants and other agents to assign all
      inventions related to Compounds and/or Products made by them to such
      Party. Memory promptly will notify Amgen in writing of any Inventions of
      which it becomes aware during the Research Term in sufficient detail to
      permit the filing of patent applications relating thereto.

9.2   Patent Prosecution.

      (a)   Amgen shall have the exclusive right to prepare, file, prosecute,
            defend and maintain (including using outside counsel selected by
            Amgen and reasonably satisfactory to Memory) all Memory Patent
            Rights to the extent related to PDE10 or to the extent related to
            PDE10 inhibitors or modulators, including methods of use, methods of
            manufacture and compositions of matter relating to such inhibitors
            or modulators, Base Patents and Joint Patent Rights (including their
            issuance, reissuance, reexamination and the defense of any
            interference, revocation or opposition proceedings), in Amgen's
            reasonable judgment and at Amgen's sole expense. Promptly after the
            Effective Date, but in any event within [*] days after the Effective
            Date, Memory shall deliver to Amgen all records, correspondence and
            other information in its possession required to enable the
            preparation, filing, prosecution, defense and maintenance of such
            Memory Patent

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       30

Rights (including the Base Patents); provided, however, that all
            such Memory Patent Rights (including the Base Patents) will remain
            in the name of Memory. Memory shall use its reasonable best efforts
            to obtain any records, correspondence and other information not in
            its possession that are required to enable the preparation, filing,
            prosecution, defense and maintenance of such Memory Patent Rights
            (including the Base Patents), and to promptly deliver such to Amgen.
            Amgen shall, to the extent reasonably requested by Memory, use
            diligent efforts to file divisionals, or take other reasonable
            action, to separate any patent claims of a Memory Patent Right that
            do not relate to PDE10 or to PDE10 inhibitors or modulators. Amgen
            shall promptly furnish Memory with copies of all correspondence
            relating to such Memory Patent Rights (including the Base Patents)
            to and from patent offices throughout the Territory and provide
            Memory a reasonable time to offer its comments before Amgen makes a
            material submission to a patent office, provided, however, that in
            the event that delay would jeopardize any potential Patent Right,
            Amgen shall have the right to proceed without awaiting Memory's
            comments. Memory shall offer its comments promptly or indicate
            promptly in writing that it waives the right to do so with respect
            to each such material submission. In making its decision whether to
            prosecute a patent, Amgen shall act in the best interests of the
            potential Products and actual Products. Memory will cooperate and
            provide such assistance as Amgen may reasonably request regarding
            the transition, preparation, filing, prosecution and defense of such
            Memory Patent Rights (including the Base Patents) and the Joint
            Patent Rights (including executing such documents and taking such
            other actions as may be reasonably requested by Amgen), provided
            that no actions, including any execution of documents, shall be
            inconsistent with this Agreement or increase any economic burdens of
            Memory (except for any increases which in the aggregate are
            immaterial). Notwithstanding the foregoing, Amgen shall prosecute
            patent applications for [*] chemical families described in Schedule
            9.2-A attached hereto (the "REQUIRED PATENT PROSECUTIONS") in [*]
            the countries listed on Schedule 9.2-B attached hereto, [*].

      (b)   If Amgen elects to not prosecute any one or more patent applications
            or discontinue prosecution of any one or more patent applications
            within the Memory Patent Rights or Joint Patent Rights, Amgen shall
            provide Memory with [*] days prior written notice of such election
            to abandon any such patent application (the "ABANDONMENT NOTICE").
            Memory may elect, at Memory's expense, to prosecute such patent
            application or continue prosecution of such patent application, as
            applicable, by providing Amgen with written notice within [*] days
            of receipt of the Abandonment Notice. Memory's right to continue the
            prosecution of any patent application under this Section 9.2(b)
            shall be limited in scope to specific claims that are unrelated to
            the subject matter of any claim actually being prosecuted by Amgen.
            Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that Amgen reasonably
            determines that the prosecution of any such patent application is
            not in the best interests of the potential Products and actual
            Products, then Memory shall cease to prosecute any such patent
            application. Memory shall promptly furnish Amgen with copies of all
            correspondence relating to such patent application to

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       31

and from patent offices throughout the Territory and provide Amgen a
            reasonable time to offer its comments before Memory makes a material
            submission to a patent office, provided, however, that in the event
            that delay would jeopardize any potential Patent Right, Memory shall
            have the right to proceed without awaiting Amgen's comments.

            Amgen shall offer its comments promptly or indicate promptly in
            writing that it waives the right to do so with respect to each such
            material submission. In making its decision whether to prosecute a
            patent, Memory shall act in the best interests of the potential
            Products and actual Products. [*].

9.3   Patent Term Extensions.

      (a)   Amgen shall use reasonable efforts, at its sole cost and expense, to
            obtain a patent term extension, adjustment or restoration, or
            supplementary protection certificate (collectively, "PATENT TERM
            EXTENSIONS") with respect to Memory Patent Rights and/or Joint
            Patent Rights (including those available under the Hatch-Waxman Act)
            that it reasonably believes is capable of being obtained under
            applicable law. Amgen shall provide Memory with written notice of
            receipt of any such Patent Term Extension. Amgen shall make all
            filings for such Patent Term Extensions with respect solely to
            Memory Patent Rights in Memory's name.

      (b)   Memory shall execute such authorizations and other documents and
            take such other actions as may be reasonably requested by Amgen to
            obtain such Patent Term Extensions, including designating Amgen as
            its agent for such purpose as provided in 35 U.S.C. Section 156. The
            Parties shall cooperate with each other in obtaining Patent Term
            Extensions wherever applicable to such Memory Patent Rights and
            Joint Patent Rights.

9.4   Patent Certifications. Each Party shall immediately give notice to the
      other Party of any notice it receives of certification filed under the
      Hatch-Waxman Act in respect of any Product and claiming that any of the
      Memory Patent Rights and/or Joint Patent Rights is invalid, unenforceable
      or that any infringement will not arise from the manufacture, use or sale
      of the product by a Third Party. Amgen shall [*] bring infringement
      proceedings in its reasonable judgment against the entity making such a
      certification with respect to any such Memory Patent Rights and/or Joint
      Patent Rights. Any suit may be in the name of either or both Parties, as
      may be required by law. For this purpose, Memory shall execute such legal
      papers necessary for the prosecution of such suit as may be reasonably
      requested by Amgen.

9.5   Enforcement of Patent Rights.

      (a)   With respect to all of the matters referred to in this Section 9.5
            where Amgen controls a decision, Amgen shall make its decisions
            solely in a manner that Amgen in good faith believes is in the best
            interest of any potential and any actual Products (but Amgen shall
            have the right to give effect to any appropriate cost benefit
            analysis) and shall, with respect to any material issues, provide
            Memory

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       32

with the right to comment on preliminary decisions made by Amgen and
            give serious consideration to Memory's comments and concerns.

      (b)   In the event that either Amgen or Memory becomes aware of any
            product that is made, used, or sold in the Territory which it
            believes to (i) infringe a Valid Claim, or (ii) constitute a
            misappropriation of Know-How relating to the making or use of a
            Compound or Product, such Party (the "NOTIFYING Party") will
            promptly advise the other Party of all the relevant facts and
            circumstances known by the Notifying Party in connection with the
            infringement or misappropriation.

      (c)   Amgen shall [*], to enforce [*] any Memory Patent Rights to the
            extent related to PDE10 or to the extent related to PDE10 inhibitors
            or modulators, including methods of use, methods of manufacture and
            compositions of matter relating to such inhibitors or modulators,
            Base Patents and/or Joint Patent Rights against such infringement in
            the Territory, and to control the defense of any declaratory
            judgment action for non-infringement relating thereto. [*].

      (d)   [*] control the litigation [*]. For any action to terminate any
            Third Party infringement, in the event that Amgen is unable to
            initiate or prosecute any action solely in its own name or if it is
            otherwise advisable to join Memory as a party to such action to
            obtain an effective remedy, then Memory will join such action
            voluntarily at Amgen's expense and will execute all documents
            necessary for Amgen to initiate, prosecute and/or maintain such
            action.

      (e)   Any recovery obtained as a result of an infringement action, whether
            by judgment, award, decree or settlement will first be applied to
            [*], and the remaining balance will be distributed to [*], provided,
            however that [*].

      (f)   Amgen shall defend and control in its reasonable judgment any action
            initiated by a Third Party (or any counterclaim or defense asserted
            in any other action) alleging invalidity or unenforceability of any
            Memory Patent Right to the extent related to PDE10 or to the extent
            related to PDE10 inhibitors or modulators, including methods of use,
            methods of manufacture and compositions of matter relating to such
            inhibitors or modulators, Base Patents or Joint Patent Right [*],
            which shall include the right to settle any such action.

9.6   Patent Infringement Claims.

      (a)   Each Party shall notify the other Party promptly in writing of any
            claim of, or action for, infringement of any patents or
            misappropriation of trade secret rights of any Third Party which is
            threatened, made or brought against either Party by reason of the
            research, development, manufacture, use or sale of any Product.

      (b)   In any suit, action or proceeding referred to in this Section 9.6,
            each Party shall, at its own expense, fully cooperate with the other
            Party and use its reasonable efforts to supply all assistance
            reasonably requested by the Party carrying on the

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       33

proceeding, including providing the other Party with such witnesses,
            documents and records and other evidence as may be reasonably
            requested.

              ARTICLE 10. REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS

10.1  Representations and Warranties of Both Parties. Each Party warrants and
      represents to the other Party that it has the full right and authority to
      enter into this Agreement and that it is not aware of any impediment which
      would inhibit its ability to perform the terms and conditions imposed on
      it by this Agreement.

10.2  Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Memory. Memory represents and
      warrants to and, in the case of Section 10.2(g) covenants with, Amgen the
      following:

      (a)   Corporate Action. All corporate action on the part of Memory, its
            officers, directors and stockholders necessary for (i) the
            authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement and (ii) the
            performance of all obligations of Memory hereunder has been taken
            and this Agreement constitutes the legal and binding obligation of
            Memory, enforceable against Memory in accordance with its terms.

      (b)   No Conflict. The execution of this Agreement and the performance of
            the transactions contemplated by this Agreement by Memory will not
            conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms, conditions
            or provisions of, or constitute a default under any agreement or
            other instrument to which Memory is a party or by which it or any of
            its property is bound.

      (c)   Right to Grant Licenses. Memory has the right to grant Amgen the
            licenses and sublicenses that Memory hereby grants to Amgen under
            this Agreement.

      (d)   Intellectual Property. As of the Effective Date, to the actual
            knowledge of its senior executives, after consultation with in-house
            patent counsel (who shall have undertaken due inquiry), there is no
            issued patent right owned or controlled by any Third Party which
            would be infringed by the making, using, selling or importing of the
            series of compounds identified by Memory to Amgen on Schedule 1.65
            or would prevent Amgen from selling such Memory Compound in any
            country of the Territory. Schedule 1.41 is a full and complete list
            of Base Patents as of the Effective Date. As of the Effective Date,
            the Base Patents are owned exclusively by Memory, and Memory's
            senior executives, after consultation with in-house patent counsel
            (who shall have undertaken due inquiry), have no actual knowledge of
            any information that would, in their opinion, render invalid and/or
            unenforceable Composition of Matter Claims for the series of
            compounds identified by Memory in such Base Patents.

      (e)   Invention Assignments. All of its FTEs, as specified in the Research
            Workplan, and its Affiliates' FTEs, as specified in the Research
            Workplan, have entered into an agreement with it or its Affiliate
            assigning to it or its Affiliate all their rights to Inventions and
            Know-How.

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       34
 
      (f)   Solvency. Memory is Solvent and able to pay its debts as they
            become due, and Memory's Solvency will not be affected negatively as
            a result of entering into this Agreement. For the purposes of this
            Agreement, "SZOLVENT" (and "SOLVENCY") means that both (A) [*] and
            (B) Memory is "solvent" within the meaning given that term and
            similar terms under applicable laws relating to fraudulent transfers
            and conveyances.

      (g)   Security Interest. All of Memory's rights, title and interest in the
            Memory Compounds, the Memory Patent Rights, the Memory Know-How and
            the Memory Technology are free and clear of all liens and
            encumbrances of any kind. Additionally, during the Agreement Term,
            Memory will not pledge, or grant a security interest, to any Third
            Party with respect to Memory Compounds, Memory Patent Rights, Memory
            Know-How, Memory Inventions and/or Memory Technology or Memory's
            interest in Collaboration Technology, Joint Compounds, Joint
            Inventions, or Joint Patent Rights, unless Memory has first granted
            to Amgen a security interest in such intellectual property to secure
            Memory's obligations under this Agreement and the security interest
            granted by Memory to such Third Party is subordinated or junior in
            priority to the security interest granted by Memory to Amgen,
            PROVIDED, HOWEVER, [*].

      (h)   Adequate Compensation. Memory acknowledges that the consideration
            provided for under this Agreement, including the up-front payment,
            milestone payments and royalties provided for under Articles 4 and
            5, represents fair consideration and reasonably equivalent value in
            exchange for the licenses and rights granted under this Agreement to
            Amgen.

10.3  Representations and Warranties of Amgen. Amgen represents and warrants to
      Memory that all corporate action on the part of Amgen, its officers,
      directors and stockholders necessary for (i) the authorization, execution
      and delivery of this Agreement and (ii) the performance of all obligations
      of Amgen hereunder has been taken and this Agreement constitutes the legal
      and binding obligation of Amgen, enforceable against Amgen in accordance
      with its terms. The execution of this Agreement and the performance of the
      transactions contemplated by this Agreement by Amgen will not conflict
      with or result in a breach of any of the terms, conditions or provisions
      of, or constitute a default under any agreement or other instrument to
      which Amgen is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.

10.4  Disclaimer. THE FOREGOING REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES ARE IN LIEU OF
      ALL OTHER REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES NOT EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS
      AGREEMENT. MEMORY AND AMGEN DISCLAIM ALL OTHER REPRESENTATIONS AND
      WARRANTIES, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO EACH OF THEIR
      RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION EFFORTS HEREUNDER, INCLUDING,
      WITHOUT LIMITATION, WHETHER THE PRODUCTS CAN BE SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOPED OR
      MARKETED, THE ACCURACY, PERFORMANCE, UTILITY, RELIABILITY, TECHNOLOGICAL
      OR COMMERCIAL VALUE, COMPREHENSIVENESS, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       35

PARTICULAR PURPOSE WHATSOEVER OF THE PRODUCTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL EITHER
      MEMORY OR AMGEN BE LIABLE FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR
      CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT BASED ON CONTRACT,
      TORT OR ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY. The foregoing limitation on liability
      shall not limit the indemnification obligations of either party under
      Section 13.1. Accordingly, neither Party is entitled to recover from the
      other Party any special, indirect, incidental or consequential damages
      that it suffers except to the extent it must pay a Third Party for such
      Third Party's special, indirect, incidental or consequential damages and
      such payment constitutes an indemnifiable Loss pursuant to Article 13
      hereof.

10.5  Memory's Expertise. Memory acknowledges and agrees that Amgen is entering
      into this Agreement to obtain the benefit of Memory's unique expertise and
      services and Amgen negotiated this Agreement with the expectation of
      transacting with Memory.

                      ARTICLE 11. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

11.1  Treatment of Confidential Information. In carrying out rights and
      obligations under this Agreement, the Parties will be disclosing
      proprietary and/or confidential information hereunder ("CONFIDENTIAL
      INFORMATION") with each other. During the term of this Agreement, and for
      a period of [*] years following the expiration or earlier termination
      hereof, each party (the "RECEIVING PARTY") shall maintain in confidence
      all Confidential Information of the other party (the "DISCLOSING PARTY"),
      and shall not use, disclose or grant the use of the Confidential
      Information of the other Party except on a need-to-know basis to its, or
      its Affiliates', directors, officers, employees, consultants,
      subcontractors, sublicensees or agents who are bound by confidentiality
      obligations at least as restrictive as set forth herein, to the extent
      such disclosure is reasonably necessary in connection with its performance
      of this Agreement or as otherwise authorized by this Agreement. Each party
      shall be responsible for any breach of the confidentiality and non-use
      obligations of this Section 11.1 by its, or its Affiliates', directors,
      officers, employees, consultants, subcontractors, sublicensees or agents.

      During the Agreement Term, with respect to Memory's obligations under this
      Article 11, all Confidential Information of Memory related to Compounds
      and Products, including all Collaboration Technology, Know-How and
      Inventions to the extent such Collaboration Technology, Know-How and/or
      Inventions relate to Compounds, Products or Base Patents, but excluding
      Memory Screening Technology, shall be subject to the provisions of this
      Article 11 as if it were Amgen Confidential Information (PROVIDED,
      HOWEVER, that Amgen shall not be permitted to disclose such Confidential
      Information of Memory except as provided for under this Agreement)
      (subject to any retained rights of Memory under Section 2.1), and Section
      11.2(a)-(b) shall not release Memory from restrictions with respect to
      such Confidential Information (subject to early termination of this
      Agreement under Article 12). Notwithstanding the foregoing and except as
      otherwise provided for under Section 11.3, unless Amgen has agreed to
      reinstate the Change of Control Rights pursuant to Section 12.4(b) or the
      Reinstatable Rights have been reinstated pursuant to Section 12.4(e), upon
      a Change of Control of Memory, Memory shall not disclose any such Memory
      Confidential Information (i.e., the Confidential

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       36

Information of Memory subject to the provisions of this Section 11 as if
      it were Amgen Confidential Information pursuant to the immediately
      preceding sentence) or Amgen Confidential Information to any entity that
      owns or controls Memory or any of such entity's Affiliates, directors,
      officers, employees, consultants, subcontractors, sublicensees or agents
      (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that Memory may disclose [*].

11.2  Release from Restrictions. The provisions of Section 11.1 shall not apply
      to any Confidential Information which the Receiving Party shall
      demonstrate:

      (a)   was known or used by the Receiving Party or its Affiliates prior to
            its date of disclosure to the Receiving Party or its Affiliates by
            the Disclosing Party or its Affiliates, as evidenced by the prior
            written records of the Receiving Party or its Affiliates; or

      (b)   either before or after the date of the disclosure to the Receiving
            Party or its Affiliates, is lawfully disclosed to the Receiving
            Party or its Affiliates, without obligation of confidentiality or
            such obligations have expired, by a Third Party rightfully in
            possession of the Confidential Information; or

      (c)   either before or after the date of the disclosure to the Receiving
            Party or its Affiliates, becomes published or generally known to the
            public through no fault or omission on the part of the Receiving
            Party or its Affiliates, but such inapplicability commences only
            after such information is published or becomes generally known; or

      (d)   is independently developed by the Receiving Party or its Affiliates
            without reference to or reliance upon any Confidential Information
            of the Disclosing Party or its Affiliates; or

      (e)   is reasonably determined to be required to be disclosed by the
            Receiving Party or its Affiliates to comply with applicable
            securities or other laws, to defend or prosecute litigation or to
            comply with court or governmental orders or governmental
            regulations, PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Receiving Party or its
            Affiliates uses all reasonable efforts to provide prior written
            notice of such disclosure to the Disclosing Party or its Affiliates
            and cooperates with the Disclosing Party with respect to any and all
            reasonable and lawful actions requested by the Disclosing Party to
            minimize the degree of such disclosure and/or to obtain confidential
            treatment or protective order; PROVIDED FURTHER, HOWEVER, that if
            the Confidential Information disclosed under this clause (e) is
            disclosed subject to confidential treatment or other confidentiality
            protection, the obligations of Section 11.1 shall continue to apply
            to such Confidential Information.

11.3  Exceptions. The restrictions set forth in this Article 11 shall not
      prevent (i) Amgen (and Memory to the extent permitted by Article 9) from
      in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, preparing, filing,
      prosecuting or maintaining a patent application or its resulting patents
      related to a Product, (ii) Amgen or, after the Agreement Term with

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       37

respect to Confidential Information Memory is permitted to use pursuant to
      Article 12, Memory from disclosing Confidential Information to
      governmental agencies to the extent required or desirable to secure
      government approval for the development, manufacture or marketing of a
      Product, or (iii) Memory from disclosing Confidential Information of
      Memory that consists of Memory Know-How that is in existence as of the
      Effective Date, Memory Know-How this is developed outside of the Research
      Collaboration, Memory Patent Rights, Memory's interest in Joint Patent
      Rights, and General Inventions (even if such Confidential Information of
      Memory is deemed to be Confidential Information of Amgen pursuant to the
      penultimate sentence of Section 11.1), in addition to Confidential
      Information related to [*] and amounts payable in the future pursuant to
      Articles 4 and 5 of the Agreement to a Third Party that Memory reasonably
      believes in good faith to be a [*], so long as, with respect to any such
      entity, such [*] executes a confidentiality agreement which is at least as
      restrictive as the provisions of this Article 11, PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that
      Memory shall provide [*] days prior written notice to Amgen of its intent
      to disclose such Confidential Information of Memory that is deemed to be
      Confidential Information of Amgen pursuant to the penultimate sentence of
      Section 11.1 (such notice need only be delivered once per [*]); PROVIDED
      FURTHER, HOWEVER, that such notice shall not be required if such
      Confidential Information is limited to the financial provisions contained
      in Article 4 and Article 5 of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, Memory may request the consent of Amgen, such consent not to be
      unreasonably withheld, to disclose additional terms of this Agreement to
      such a Third Party described in the preceding sentence.

11.4  Publications. During the Agreement Term, Amgen shall have the sole right
      to publish, either directly or indirectly, scientific results and other
      related information of work conducted with respect to the Research
      Collaboration and/or Products. Before any such paper is submitted for
      publication, Amgen will deliver a complete copy to Memory at least [*]
      days prior to submitting the paper to a publisher [*]. Memory will have
      the right to review any such paper and give its comments to Amgen within
      [*] business days of the delivery of such paper to Memory. With respect to
      oral presentation materials and abstracts, Memory will make reasonable
      efforts to expedite review of such materials and abstracts, and will
      return such items as soon as practicable to Amgen with appropriate
      comments, if any, but in no event later than [*] business days from the
      date of delivery to Memory. Amgen will consider in good faith any comments
      provided by Memory, but Amgen will have no obligation to accept any such
      comments. Amgen will comply with any Memory's request to delete references
      to Memory's Confidential Information in any such paper. Any such
      publication will include recognition of the contributions of Memory
      according to standard practice for assigning scientific credit, either
      through authorship or acknowledgment, as may be appropriate. Memory will
      not publish scientific results or other information resulting from the
      Research Collaboration, without the prior written consent of Amgen.
      Additionally, during the Agreement Term Memory will not publish scientific
      results or other information with respect to any Products, without the
      prior written consent of Amgen.

11.5  Use of Names. No right, express or implied, is granted to either Party by
      this Agreement to use any trademark of the other Party, including the
      names "Amgen" and "Memory," for

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       38

any promotional, commercial, advertising or marketing purposes, without
      the prior written consent of the owning Party.

                        ARTICLE 12. TERM AND TERMINATION

12.1  Agreement Term. The Agreement Term shall commence on the Effective Date
      and end, unless earlier terminated upon the mutual agreement of the
      Parties or in accordance with the provisions of this Article 12, on the
      date of expiration of all royalty and other payment obligations (the
      "EXPIRATION DATE") under this Agreement. Upon the occurrence of the
      Expiration Date, if any, the licenses granted to Amgen by Memory under
      this Agreement to thereafter develop, make, have made, use, offer for
      sale, sell, have sold, import, export or otherwise exploit, or transfer
      possession of or title in, Compounds and Products shall be fully paid-up,
      except to the limited extent that a Patent Right was previously found to
      be unpatentable, invalid or unenforceable by a court or other authority of
      competent jurisdiction and subsequently such ruling is reversed upon
      appeal and such Patent Right is thereafter not subject to such
      determination of unpatentability, invalidity or unenforceability all as
      contemplated under Section 5.2.

12.2  Termination for Breach. In the event that a Party to this Agreement
      materially breaches this Agreement ("BREACHING PARTY"), then the
      non-breaching Party ("NON-BREACHING PARTY") shall be entitled to provide
      written notice thereof to the breaching Party. In the event that the
      breaching Party fails to remedy such material breach within [*] days after
      receipt of written notice (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that with respect to a
      failure to pay any undisputed amounts under this Agreement, [*] days),
      then the non-breaching Party may terminate this Agreement by written
      notice of termination to the breaching Party. Any such notice of breach
      shall specifically state that the non-breaching Party intends to or
      reserves the right to terminate this Agreement in the event that the
      breaching Party shall fail to timely remedy the breach. The effective date
      of termination under this Section 12.2 for a material breach shall be the
      day after provision of written notice of termination by the non-breaching
      Party in accordance with this Section 12.2.

      Subject to the next sentence, in the event Amgen does not pay any payment
      in full by reason of a good faith dispute as to whether such payment is
      due pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, Amgen shall pay all amounts
      not in dispute, and, so long as Amgen pays all such undisputed amounts,
      Memory shall not have the right to terminate this Agreement by reason of
      the non-payment of such disputed amount (the "DISPUTED Amount") pursuant
      to the terms of this Section 12.2 unless Amgen has continued to fail to
      pay any such disputed amount within [*] days after resolution of the
      dispute by mutual agreement of the Parties or a court of competent
      jurisdiction.

      Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing to the contrary, in
      the event that Memory fails to complete the Technology Transfer or fails
      to provide to Amgen a notice of completion as provided for under Section
      7.1(c), Amgen shall have the right to provide written notice to Memory of
      such failure within [*] business days after the [*] day following the
      Effective Date and the right to withhold the up-front

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       39

fee provided for under Section 4.1. If Amgen fails to provide such written
      notice within [*] business days after the [*] day following the Effective
      Date, then Amgen shall pay to Memory the up-front fee provided for under
      Section 4.1. Thereafter, Memory shall have [*] days from the receipt of
      such notice in which to complete the Technology Transfer. Amgen shall have
      [*] business days from receipt of a subsequent notice of completion of the
      Technology Transfer to either pay the up-front fee provided for under
      Section 4.1 or dispute that Memory has completed the Technology Transfer.
      In the event that Memory has not completed the Technology Transfer in the
      additional [*] day period or Amgen disputes that Memory has completed the
      Technology Transfer and the parties have not resolved such dispute within
      [*] business days, Amgen shall either (a) terminate the Agreement by
      providing written notice to Memory, or (b) pay the up-front fee provided
      for under Section 4.1, and thereafter Memory shall be required to use its
      reasonable diligence to complete the Technology Transfer as soon as
      reasonably practicable. In the event that Amgen has not taken either of
      the steps in the foregoing sentence, this Agreement shall be deemed
      terminated effective as of the [*] business day following the end of the
      additional [*] day period. Termination of this Agreement pursuant to the
      provisions of this last paragraph of Section 12.2 shall, in the absence of
      willful misconduct or bad faith of Memory, be without liability to either
      party, notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 12.7 or 12.8.

12.3  Amgen's Right to Terminate. Amgen may terminate the Agreement in whole but
      not in part (except as provided for under Sections 12.4 and 12.8) at any
      time upon sixty (60) days written notice to Memory.

12.4  Consequences of Change of Control of Memory.

      (a)   Upon each occurrence of a Change of Control of Memory, Memory shall
            notify Amgen thereof, specifying the name(s) of the acquiring Third
            Party(ies) (if applicable) if known. If the identity of the
            acquiring Third Party(ies) is not known, Memory will promptly notify
            Amgen upon learning the identity of such party(ies) (if applicable).

      (b)   Upon a Change of Control of Memory, except to the extent provided
            for in Section 12.4(e), the Change of Control Rights shall abate,
            suspend, no longer be currently enforceable and may never be
            enforceable again unless and to the extent that Amgen provides
            Memory with written notice to the contrary abrogating such
            abatement.

      (c)   Amgen shall have the right to terminate this Agreement at any time
            after a Change of Control of Memory, and such right shall expire
            upon [*] days after the occurrence of such Change of Control of
            Memory. In the case of a Change of Control of Memory described in
            Section 1.8(f), Amgen's right to terminate the Agreement shall not
            expire until [*] days after receiving notice from Memory (or its
            successor) of the lifting of any stay which would otherwise prevent
            Amgen from providing notice pursuant to this provision. In each case
            termination under Section 12.4 shall be effective upon written
            notice to Memory (or its successor).

      (d)   The Parties acknowledge and agree that Amgen shall have no liability
            (either during or after any such abatement, suspension and
            unenforceability) with respect

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       40

to any Change of Control Rights for the period during which such
            rights are abated, suspended or no longer enforceable (by way of
            example, if during the period in which Change of Control Rights are
            abated, suspended and no longer enforceable Amgen fails to fulfill
            its diligence obligations under Article 3, then Amgen shall have no
            liability (at any time) with respect to that failure to perform,
            even if such diligence obligations are subsequently reinstated and
            again enforceable).

      (e)   Notwithstanding Section 12.4(b), if the Third Party Acquirer or an
            Affiliate thereof is a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company and
            together with its Affiliates has annual research and development
            expenditures of [*] prior to the applicable Change of Control of
            Memory (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that upon request by Amgen, Memory shall
            provide reasonable documentation to evidence that, or provide a
            written certification reasonably satisfactory to Amgen from the
            Third Party Acquirer to the effect that, [*], and such Third Party
            Acquirer agrees in writing to be bound by the exclusivity provisions
            of Section 2.5 in a manner reasonably satisfactory to Amgen, then
            (i) Amgen's obligations under Section 3.1 shall be automatically
            reinstated (but shall terminate upon the Initiation of Phase 3
            Clinical Trial), (ii) Amgen's obligations with respect to payment of
            FTE costs under Section 7.3 shall be reinstated (but only in the
            event that [*] and (iii) the Reinstatable Rights shall be
            reinstated. In the event that at any time during the [*] day period
            following the occurrence of a Change of Control of Memory, Memory
            ceases to have the requisite number of Dedicated Personnel or such
            requisite number of Dedicated Personnel are not working on the
            Research Collaboration as requested by Amgen, Memory shall notify
            Amgen in writing, and Amgen shall have the right to terminate in
            writing the Research Collaboration and its obligations with respect
            to payment of FTE costs under Section 7.3 with respect to FTE costs
            from and after the date Amgen so terminates the Research
            Collaboration by providing written notice of termination to Memory
            within [*] days of receipt of the written notice from Memory.
            Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 12.4(e),
            from and after the occurrence of a Change of Control of Memory, at
            Amgen's election and upon written Notice to Memory, Amgen shall have
            the right to require Memory to cease all activities related to
            PDE10, PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that Amgen agrees to pay Memory all
            amounts due under the Research Collaboration for FTEs that would
            otherwise be dedicated to the Research Collaboration pursuant to the
            terms of Section 7.3. The Parties hereby confirm that the provisions
            of this Section 12.4 with respect to the suspension of payment of
            FTE costs under Section 7.3 are not intended to affect Memory's
            right to recover for FTE costs incurred prior to suspension of such
            payment of FTE costs.

      (f)   Upon any such suspension or termination by Amgen of the Research
            Collaboration and its obligations with respect to payment of FTE
            costs under Section 7.3, Amgen shall, at Amgen's sole expense
            (calculated at the FTE Rate), have the right to cause Memory to
            transition to Amgen any and all of Memory's activities under the
            Research Collaboration.

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       41

(g)   Upon any suspension by Amgen of the Research Collaboration and its
            obligations with respect to payment of FTE costs under Section 7.3,
            then Memory shall promptly cease all activities with respect to
            PDE10, except as otherwise required under this Section 12.4, and
            Memory's obligations under Section 3.2, the last two sentences of
            Section 7.1(c), Section 7.2(d), and Section 7.7 shall be suspended,
            but only for such time as Amgen has elected to suspend its
            obligation with respect to payment of FTE costs. Notwithstanding the
            foregoing, Memory shall, regardless of Amgen's election to suspend
            payment of FTE costs, comply with the provisions of Section 7.1(c)
            (excluding the last two sentences of such Section 7.1(c)) and
            Section 12.4(f) (including providing Amgen with copies of all data,
            discoveries and technical developments, including all Collaboration
            Technology, Know-How and Inventions arising out of Memory's
            performance of the Research Collaboration to the extent not
            previously provided to Amgen, including animals and/or other
            physical materials for performing in vivo behavioral assays).

      (h)   Promptly after reinstatement of the Research Collaboration and
            Amgen's obligations with respect to payment of FTE costs under
            Section 7.3, the JRC shall meet to discuss and determine appropriate
            revisions to the Research Workplan to take into account any period
            that the Research Collaboration was suspended pursuant to the
            provisions of this Section 12.4, including other activities
            unrelated or outside the scope of the original Research Workplan,
            but only to the extent such activities are related to PDE10. If the
            Research Collaboration is suspended pursuant to this Section 12.4
            and subsequently reinstated, the Research Term shall be extended by
            the same of number of days that the Research Term was suspended
            pursuant to this Section 12.4.

12.5  Consequences of Termination.

      (a)   Upon (i) any termination of this Agreement by Memory pursuant to
            Section 12.2, or (ii) termination of this Agreement by Amgen
            pursuant to Section 12.3 (unless Amgen in its reasonable commercial
            judgment concludes that there are [*], all rights and licenses of
            any kind or nature granted by Memory to Amgen under this Agreement
            shall terminate on the effective date of termination (PROVIDED,
            HOWEVER, that the non-exclusive Research License granted to Amgen
            with respect to Memory Inventions that relate specifically to Memory
            compounds consisting of PDE10 inhibitors or modulators, including
            Memory Compounds, and the non-exclusive license granted to Amgen
            with respect to any other Memory Invention (including General
            Inventions) shall survive any termination or expiration of the
            Agreement (other than with respect to the termination of this
            Agreement by Memory pursuant to Section 12.2 by reason of Amgen's
            default in making payments required under this Agreement in which
            case the foregoing licenses terminate)). Additionally, in the event
            of any such termination, Memory shall have the right to cause Amgen
            to enter into good faith discussions for a period of ninety (90)
            days regarding the acquisition by Memory of the items set forth in
            Section 12.5(c) below. Memory may exercise the foregoing right by
            providing written notice to Amgen within ninety (90) days of
            termination of the Agreement.

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       42

(b)   Upon (i) any termination of this Agreement by Amgen in its entirety
            pursuant to Section 12.2, (ii) any termination of this Agreement by
            Amgen pursuant to Section 12.3 where Amgen in its reasonable
            commercial judgment concludes that there are [*], or (iii) any
            termination of this Agreement in its entirety pursuant to Section
            12.4, rights and licenses of any kind or nature granted by Memory to
            Amgen under this Agreement shall terminate on the effective date of
            termination (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the non-exclusive Research
            License granted to Amgen with respect to Memory Inventions that
            relate specifically to Memory compounds consisting of PDE10
            inhibitors or modulators, including Memory Compounds, and the
            non-exclusive license granted to Amgen with respect to any other
            Memory Invention (including General Inventions) as set forth in
            Section 2.1 shall survive).

      (c)   Upon receipt of notice provided for under Section 12.5(a) above,
            provided that Amgen has not filed an NDA with respect to any
            Product, the Parties shall enter negotiations for the acquisition by
            Memory of the Amgen Property. The royalties payable by Memory to
            Amgen in connection with the exclusive and non-exclusive licenses
            within Amgen Property would be negotiated by the Parties consistent
            with following: if, as of the date of termination of the Agreement,
            (1) Amgen has not yet achieved Initiation of Phase 2a Clinical Trial
            with respect to a Lead Compound, then the royalties would be between
            [*] and [*]; and (2) Amgen has achieved Initiation of Phase 2a
            Clinical Trial with respect to a Lead Compound, but not yet filed an
            NDA with respect to such Lead Compound, then the royalties would be
            between [*] and [*].

12.6  Royalty and Payment Obligations. Termination of this Agreement in whole or
      in part by either Party for any reason will not release Amgen from any
      obligation to pay royalties or make any payments to Memory which were
      accrued prior to the effective date of termination (including for sales
      made and events achieved under Article 4, prior to the date of
      termination).

12.7  Survival of Obligations. Section 2.2 (the last sentence only), Section
      2.4, Section 6.4, Section 6.5, Section 7.5, Section 9.1, Article 11,
      Section 12.1 (the last sentence only), Section 12.5, Section 12.6, Section
      12.7, Article 13, and any definitions used in such Section or Article,
      shall survive the termination of this Agreement in its entirety.
      Additionally, the license granted to Amgen under Section 2.1 with respect
      to Memory Inventions shall become the non-exclusive Research License under
      the Memory Inventions that relate specifically to Memory compounds
      consisting of PDE10 inhibitors or modulators, including Memory Compounds,
      and the non-exclusive license under any other Memory Invention (including
      General Inventions) as set forth under Section 2.1 shall otherwise survive
      in all respects the termination of this Agreement (other than with respect
      to the termination of this Agreement by Memory pursuant to Section 12.2 by
      reason of Amgen's default in making payments required under this Agreement
      in which case the foregoing licenses terminate). The parties acknowledge
      and agree that, except to the extent a definitive agreement is entered
      into between the Parties as contemplated by Section 12.5(c) granting a
      license to Memory with respect to certain intellectual property of Amgen,
      upon the termination of this Agreement, the rights of each of Memory and

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       43

Amgen with respect to Joint Compounds, Joint Inventions and Joint Patent
      Rights shall be governed by applicable law.

      The Parties joint interest in Collaboration Technology shall survive the
      termination or expiration of this Agreement, and accordingly each party
      shall have the right to fully exploit its joint interest in Collaboration
      Technology. Termination (in whole or in part), relinquishment or
      expiration of the Agreement for any reason shall be without prejudice to
      any rights that shall have accrued to the benefit of either Party prior to
      such termination, relinquishment or expiration, including any other
      remedies available to such Party in law or equity. Such termination,
      relinquishment or expiration shall not relieve either Party from
      obligations that are expressly indicated to survive termination or
      expiration of the Agreement.

12.8  Additional Remedies of Amgen. In addition to the remedies available under
      Section 12.2 above and cumulative thereto, as well as any other remedies
      available under law or equity, and subject to the right to notice and cure
      as provided for under Section 12.2, in the event of a material breach of
      this Agreement by Memory of Article 2, Article 9, Sections 10.2(b), (c),
      (d), (e), or (f), or Article 11, then Amgen and Memory shall discuss in
      good faith, for a period of [*] days, the nature and the potential and/or
      actual adverse effects of the alleged material breach on Amgen or any
      Product and the sufficiency of Memory's efforts to cure such material
      breach. In the event [*] of a Change of Control of Memory as described in
      Section 1.8(f) and a subsequent rejection of this Agreement by Memory (or
      its successor), then Amgen shall have the right to (i) [*] and (iv) cause
      Memory to either return or destroy, at Amgen's option, all of Amgen's
      Confidential Information. Amgen's effecting the partial termination
      provided for in the preceding sentence shall not create a presumption that
      Amgen has correctly made such determination, and, after any such
      determination is made by Amgen, Memory shall have the right to dispute in
      good faith Amgen's right under the circumstances to effect such partial
      termination.

                            ARTICLE 13. MISCELLANEOUS

13.1  Indemnification.

      (a)   Amgen agrees to defend Memory and its directors, officers, employees
            and agents (the "MEMORY INDEMNIFIED PARTIES") at Amgen's cost and
            expense, and will indemnify and hold Memory and the other Memory
            Indemnified Parties harmless from and against any claims, losses,
            costs, damages, fees or expenses (collectively, "LOSSES") resulting
            from any Third Party claim (including product liability claims)
            arising out of or otherwise relating to (i) Amgen's performance of
            its obligations under this Agreement, (ii) the development,
            manufacture, use, offer for sale, sale or other disposition of any
            Product by or on behalf of Amgen, its Affiliates or sublicensees
            (including any Losses resulting from Memory being joined as a party
            to an action at Amgen's request pursuant to Section 9.4(d)) or (iii)
            breach of this Agreement, or the representations and warranties made
            hereunder by Amgen, by Amgen; except, in each case, to the extent
            such Losses result from the gross negligence or willful misconduct
            of Memory Indemnified

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       44

Parties or from the breach of any representation or warranty
            hereunder or of this Agreement by Memory. In the event of any such
            claim against the Memory Indemnified Parties by a Third Party,
            Memory shall promptly notify Amgen in writing of the claim
            (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that any failure or delay to notify shall not
            excuse any obligations of Amgen except to the extent Amgen is
            actually prejudiced thereby) and Amgen shall solely manage and
            control, at its sole expense, the defense of the claim and its
            settlement; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that Amgen shall not settle any such
            claim, if such settlement may have an adverse effect on Memory,
            without the prior written consent of Memory, which consent shall not
            be unreasonably withheld. The Memory Indemnified Parties shall
            cooperate with Amgen and may, at their option and expense, be
            represented in any such action or proceeding. Amgen shall not be
            liable for any litigation costs or expenses incurred by the Memory
            Indemnified Parties without Amgen's written authorization.

      (b)   Memory agrees to defend Amgen and its directors, officers, employees
            and agents (the "AMGEN INDEMNIFIED PARTIES") at Memory's cost and
            expense, and will indemnify and hold Amgen and the other Amgen
            Indemnified Parties harmless from and against any Losses resulting
            from any Third Party claim (including product liability claims)
            arising out of or otherwise relating to (i) Memory's performance of
            its obligations under this Agreement, or (ii) breach of this
            Agreement, or the representations and warranties made hereunder by
            Memory, by Memory; except, in each case, to the extent such Losses
            result from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Amgen
            Indemnified Parties or from the breach of any representation or
            warranty hereunder or of this Agreement by Amgen.

            In the event of any such claim against the Amgen Indemnified Parties
            by a Third Party, Amgen shall promptly notify Memory in writing of
            the claim (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that any failure or delay to notify
            shall not excuse any obligation of Memory except to the extent
            Memory is actually prejudiced thereby) and Memory shall solely
            manage and control, at its sole expense, the defense of the claim
            and its settlement; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that Memory shall not settle
            any such claim if such settlement may have an adverse effect on
            Amgen without the prior written consent of Amgen, which consent
            shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Amgen Indemnified Parties
            shall cooperate with Memory and may, at their option and expense, be
            represented in any such action or proceeding. Memory shall not be
            liable for any litigation costs or expenses incurred by the Amgen
            Indemnified Parties without Memory's written authorization.

13.2  Publicity. Neither Party shall originate any publicity, news release or
      other public announcement, written or oral, relating to this Agreement,
      including its terms, without the prior approval of the other Party except
      solely to the extent a Party reasonably believes same is otherwise
      required by law. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Each
      Party shall to the extent consistent with applicable laws and regulations
      limit the disclosure of the financial terms set forth in this Agreement
      (such as by requesting confidential treatment of such terms in documents
      required to be filed with the

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       45

US Securities and Exchange Commission). Memory shall provide a proposed
      draft to Amgen of any intended press releases or other public disclosure,
      which Memory is required to make under applicable law, regulation or stock
      exchange rule to the extent relating to Memory's rights and/or obligations
      under this Agreement at least [*] business days in advance of its proposed
      release. Amgen shall consider Memory's request to make such press release
      or statement and within [*] business days of receiving such press release
      or statement, indicate to Memory whether Amgen requires any changes to be
      made prior to the release thereof, which changes Memory shall be required
      to make prior to making such press release or other public disclosure.
      Memory's failure to make a change required by Amgen shall be deemed not to
      be a breach of this Agreement solely in the event that making such change
      is reasonably likely to, based upon Memory's reasonable determination made
      after consultation with outside legal counsel, result in Memory violating
      any law or regulation or stock exchange rules. Memory shall not be
      required to provide Amgen with a draft press release within [*] business
      days in advance of its proposed release if the event that gave rise to the
      press release is required under applicable law or regulation or stock
      exchange rules to be disclosed within a time period of less than [*]
      business days of occurrence of the event, based upon Memory's reasonable
      determination made after consultation with outside legal counsel,
      PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in such an event Memory shall provide Amgen with a
      draft press release as soon as reasonably possible but in no event less
      than [*] business days in advance of its proposed release. The Parties
      agree to the form of press release as attached as Schedule 13.2 which
      Memory may file with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection
      with a filing on Form 8-K.

      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, the
      Parties agree that nothing set forth in this Agreement is intended to
      preclude Memory from making disclosures that are otherwise required under
      applicable law or regulation or stock exchange rules.

13.3  Force Majeure. Neither Party to this Agreement shall be responsible to the
      other Party for nonperformance or delay in performance of the terms or
      conditions of this Agreement due to acts of God, acts of governments, war,
      riots, strikes, accidents in transportation, or other causes beyond the
      reasonable control of such Party, but such force majeure shall toll any
      and all obligations and time periods for so long as such force majeure
      continues.

13.4  Bankruptcy. All licenses (and to the extent applicable rights) granted
      under or pursuant to this Agreement by Memory to Amgen are, and shall
      otherwise be deemed to be, for purposes of Section 365(n) of Title 11, US
      Code (the "BANKRUPTCY CODE"), licenses of rights to "intellectual
      property" as defined under Section 101(60) of the Bankruptcy Code. Unless
      Amgen elects to terminate this Agreement under Article 12, the Parties
      agree that Amgen, as a licensee or sublicensee of such rights under this
      Agreement, shall retain and may fully exercise all of its rights and
      elections under the Bankruptcy Code, including, Amgen's right to retain
      all licenses to Memory technology and intellectual property granted
      herein, subject to payments when due to Memory of all milestone payments
      and royalties on Product(s). The Parties further agree that, in the event
      of the commencement of a bankruptcy proceeding by or against Memory under
      the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, Amgen shall be entitled to a complete duplicate
      of (or complete access to, as appropriate)

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       46

any such intellectual property and all embodiments of such intellectual
      property, and same, if not already in its possession, shall be promptly
      delivered to it (i) upon any such commencement of a bankruptcy proceeding
      upon its written request therefor, unless Memory elects to continue to
      perform all of its obligations under this Agreement, or (ii) if not
      delivered under (i) above, following the rejection of this Agreement by or
      on behalf of Memory upon written request therefor by Amgen.

13.5  Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in
      accordance with the laws of New York without giving effect to principles
      of conflicts of law. Any litigation initiated under this Agreement shall
      be conducted in the state or federal courts located in New York. Each of
      the Parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally consents to
      submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New
      York and of the United States of America located in the State of New York
      for any matter arising out of or relating to this Agreement and the
      transactions contemplated hereby. Each of the Parties hereto hereby
      irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of
      venue of any matter arising out of this Agreement or the transactions
      contemplated hereby in the courts of the State of New York or of the
      United States of America located in the State of New York and hereby
      further irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or
      claim in any such court that any such litigation brought in any such court
      has been brought in an inconvenient forum.

13.6  Waiver. The waiver by a Party of a breach or a default of any provision of
      this Agreement by the other Party shall not be construed as a waiver of
      any succeeding breach of the same or any other provision, nor shall any
      delay or omission on the part of a Party to exercise or avail itself of
      any right, power or privilege that it has or may have hereunder operate as
      a waiver of any right, power or privilege by such Party.

13.7  Notices. Any notice or other communication in connection with this
      Agreement must be in writing and may be given by any of the following
      methods: (i) personal delivery against a signed receipt; (ii) registered
      or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested; or (iii) by
      overnight delivery service which obtains a signed receipt. Notice shall be
      effective when delivered to the addressee at the address listed below or
      such other address as the addressee shall have specified in a written
      notice delivered pursuant to one of the foregoing methods of providing
      notice.

      If to Memory:

            Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp.
            100 Philips Parkway
            Montvale, New Jersey 07645
            Attn: Head of Business Development

      and

            Sills Cummis Epstein & Gross P.C.
            One Riverfront Plaza
            Newark, New Jersey 07102

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       47

Attn: Ira A. Rosenberg, Esq.

      If to Amgen:

            Amgen Inc.
            One Amgen Center Drive

            Thousand Oaks, California 91320-1799
            Attn: Vice President, Licensing

      and

            Amgen Inc.
            One Amgen Center Drive

            Thousand Oaks, California 91320-1799
            Attn: Corporate Secretary

13.8  No Agency. The relationship between Memory and Amgen created by this
      Agreement is solely that of independent contractors. This Agreement does
      not create any agency, distributorship, employee-employer, partnership,
      joint venture or similar business relationship between the Parties.
      Neither Party is a legal representative of the other Party, and neither
      Party can assume or create any obligation, representation, warranty or
      guarantee, express or implied, on behalf of the other Party for any
      purpose whatsoever. Each Party shall use its own discretion and shall have
      complete and authoritative control over its employees and the details of
      performing its obligations under this Agreement.

13.9  Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the Schedules hereto (which Schedules
      are deemed to be a part of this Agreement for all purposes) contain the
      full understanding of the Parties with respect to the subject matter
      hereof and supersede all prior understandings and writings relating
      thereto. No waiver, alteration or modification of any of the provisions
      hereof shall be binding unless made in writing and signed by the Parties.

13.10 Headings. The headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience of
      reference only and shall not be considered in construing this Agreement.

13.11 Severability. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is held by
      a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable because it is
      invalid or in conflict with any law of any relevant jurisdiction, the
      validity of the remaining provisions shall not be affected, and the
      Parties shall negotiate a substitute provision that, to the extent
      possible, accomplishes the original business purpose. During the period of
      such negotiation, and thereafter if no substituted provision is agreed
      upon, any such provision which is enforceable in part but not in whole
      shall be enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law.

13.12 Assignment. Neither Party may assign or transfer this Agreement or any
      rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the
      other, except that, subject to Section 12.4, a Party may make such an
      assignment or assumption without the other Party's consent to an entity
      that acquires all or substantially all of the business of such Party,
      whether in a merger, consolidation, corporate or bankruptcy
      reorganization,

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       48

acquisition, sale or otherwise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Amgen shall
      have the right to assign this Agreement to any of its Affiliates
      (PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that once an entity ceases to be an Affiliate of
      Amgen, such entity shall reassign this Agreement to Amgen; FURTHER
      PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that notwithstanding any such assignment by Amgen to an
      Affiliate Amgen shall remain liable with respect to its obligations under
      this Agreement).

      This Agreement shall be binding on the successors and assigns of the
      assigning Party, and the name of a Party appearing herein shall be deemed
      to include the name(s) of such Party's successors and permitted assigns to
      the extent necessary to carry out the intent of this Agreement. Any
      assignment or attempted assignment by either Party in violation of the
      terms of this Section 13.12 shall be null and void and of no legal effect.
      The assigning Party shall forward to the other Party a copy of those
      portions of each fully executed assignment agreement which relate to the
      assumption of the rights and responsibilities of the assigning Party,
      within [*] days of the execution of such assignment agreement.

13.13 Interpretation. The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be
      deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." All references
      herein to Articles, Sections, and Schedules shall be deemed references to
      Articles and Sections of, and Schedules to, this Agreement unless the
      context shall otherwise require. Unless the context otherwise requires,
      countries shall include territories.

13.14 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of
      counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of such
      together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

13.15 Further Actions. Each Party agrees to execute, acknowledge and deliver
      such further instruments and to do all such other acts as may be necessary
      or appropriate in order to carry out the purposes and intent of this
      Agreement.

13.16 No Benefit of Third Parties. The representations, warranties, covenants
      and agreements set forth in this Agreement are for the sole benefit of the
      Parties hereto and their successors and permitted assigns, and they shall
      not be construed as conferring any rights on any Third Parties.

                  (Remainder of page intentionally left blank)

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       49

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
executed in their names by their properly and duly authorized officers or
representatives as of the dates below written.

MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP.        AMGEN INC.

By:/s/ James R. Sulat               By: /s/ Roger M. Perlmutter
   ---------------------------          -----------------------

Name: James R. Sulat                Name: Roger M. Perlmutter, M.D., Ph.D.

Title:  President and CEO           Title: Executive Vice President,
                                             Research & Development

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

                                       50

SCHEDULE 1.41

                              MEMORY PATENT RIGHTS

                                       [*]

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

SCHEDULE 1.42

                           MEMORY SCREENING TECHNOLOGY

                                       [*]

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

SCHEDULE 1.48

                            PDE10 AMINO ACID SEQUENCE

                                       [*]

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

SCHEDULE 1.57

                                RESEARCH WORKPLAN

                                       [*]

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

SCHEDULE 1.60

                                MEMORY IDENTIFIED

                               SECONDARY COMPOUNDS

None.

SCHEDULE 1.65-A

                                TRIGGERING EVENT

                                       [*]

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

SCHEDULE 1.65-B

                         CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM EFFECTS

                                       [*]

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

SCHEDULE 2.6

                          SHORT FORM LICENSE AGREEMENT

This Exclusive License Agreement (this "AGREEMENT") entered into as of the ___th
day of ______, 2005 by and between MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP., a Delaware
corporation, having its principal place of business at 100 Philips Parkway,
Montvale, New Jersey 07645 ("MEMORY"), and AMGEN INC., a Delaware corporation,
having its principal place of business at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks,
California 91320 ("AMGEN").

      Whereas, Memory owns all right title and interest in and to the patents
and patent applications set forth on Schedule 1 hereto (the "LICENSED PATENTS");

      Whereas, Amgen and Memory are parties to that certain Collaboration and
License Agreement dated October ___, 2005 (the "LICENSE AGREEMENT");

      Whereas, Memory desires to grant Amgen an exclusive license to the
Licensed Patents on the terms and conditions set forth in the License Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual representations, warranties
and covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration,
and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereby agree as follows:

1. Grant of License. Memory hereby grants Amgen an exclusive license to the
Licensed Patents for all uses, including prophylaxis, palliative, diagnostic,
and therapeutic, on the terms and conditions set forth in the License Agreement.

2. Further Assurances. Memory shall take all actions and execute all documents
necessary for Amgen to perfect its rights hereunder. Amgen shall reimburse
Memory for any out of pocket costs incurred in connection therewith.

3. Recordal. Amgen shall have the right to record this Agreement as necessary to
perfect its interest herein, including with the United States Patent and
Trademark Office and similar offices in other countries throughout the world.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have each caused a duly authorized
officer to sign this Agreement.

AMGEN INC.                                         MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP.

By: __________________________                     By:__________________________
Title:                                             Title:

SCHEDULE 7.1

                               MEMORY LEAD SERIES

                                       [*]

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

SCHEDULE 7.3(f)

                             APPROVED SUBCONTRACTORS

None.

SCHEDULE 9.2-A

                         MEMORY PDE10 CHEMICAL FAMILIES

                                       [*]

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

SCHEDULE 9.2-B

                          REQUIRED PATENT PROSECUTIONS

                                       [*]

                     [*] CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED

SCHEDULE 13.2

                              FORM OF PRESS RELEASE

                   [MEMORY SCIENCE WORKING FOR THE MIND LOGO]

FOR MORE INFORMATION:

Jzaneen Lalani                                    Laura Perry
Vice President, Legal Affairs                     Stern Investor Relations, Inc.
(201) 802-7140                                    (212) 362-1200

   MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS ANNOUNCES COLLABORATION TO DEVELOP PDE10 INHIBITORS
                 FOR CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS WITH AMGEN

Montvale, NJ - October __, 2005 - Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp. (NASDAQ: MEMY)
today announced that it has entered into an exclusive worldwide collaboration
and license agreement with Amgen to develop PDE10 inhibitors as human
therapeutics, including as a potential treatment for certain neurological and
psychiatric disorders. The collaboration will focus on the optimization of lead
compounds that the Company has identified and that have demonstrated
effectiveness in the selective inhibition of PDE10 activity in several animal
models.

Under the collaboration, Memory Pharmaceuticals will receive an upfront payment
of $5.0 million, and the Company could also receive significant milestone
payments for the successful achievement of research, development, approval and
sales events for compounds that progress under the collaboration. In addition,
Memory Pharmaceuticals is eligible to receive royalties that will increase with
increasing sales levels on worldwide sales of marketed products from the
collaboration. Over the next two years of the collaboration, Memory
Pharmaceuticals could receive research funding of $5.1 million.

"PDE10 is a very compelling target for treating certain central nervous system
disorders, and we are delighted to have Amgen as a partner in our effort to
aggressively pursue this target and address the pervasive unmet needs of
patients with these disorders," said Jim Sulat, President and Chief Executive
Officer of Memory Pharmaceuticals. "In addition, we believe this collaboration
is further validation of Memory Pharmaceuticals' solid discovery capabilities."

PDE10 is a class of phosphodiesterases that degrades cAMP and cGMP, molecules
that are responsible for improving the function of many different cells in the
body, including neurons. By inhibiting PDE10 activity, levels of cAMP and cGMP
are increased within neurons, and the ability of these neurons to function
properly is thereby improved. PDE10 has been shown to be present at high levels
in neurons in areas of the brain that are closely associated with many
neurological and psychiatric disorders.

ABOUT THE COMPANY

Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp., a biopharmaceutical company, is focused on
developing innovative drugs for the treatment of debilitating CNS disorders such
as Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, depression, vascular dementia, mild
cognitive impairment, Parkinson's disease and memory impairments

associated with aging. For additional information, please visit our website at
http://www.memorypharma.com.

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and
uncertainties. All statements, other than statements of historical facts,
regarding management's expectations, beliefs, goals, plans or Memory
Pharmaceuticals' prospects, future financial position, future revenues and
projected costs should be considered forward-looking. Readers are cautioned that
actual results may differ materially from projections or estimates due to a
variety of important factors, including the risks and uncertainties associated
with: obtaining additional financing to support Memory Pharmaceuticals' R&D and
clinical activities and operations; Memory Pharmaceuticals' ability to enter
into and maintain collaborations with third parties for its drug development
programs; Memory Pharmaceuticals' dependence on its collaborations with Roche
and its license relationship with Bayer; conducting preclinical and clinical
trials of Memory Pharmaceuticals' drug candidates that demonstrate these
candidates' safety and effectiveness; obtaining regulatory approvals to conduct
clinical trials and to commercialize Memory Pharmaceuticals' drug candidates;
achieving milestones under Memory Pharmaceuticals' collaborations; Memory
Pharmaceuticals' dependence on third- party preclinical or clinical research
organizations, manufacturers and consultants; and protecting the intellectual
property developed by or licensed to Memory Pharmaceuticals. These and other
risks are described in greater detail in Memory Pharmaceuticals' filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Memory Pharmaceuticals may not actually
achieve the goals or plans described in its forward-looking statements, and
investors should not place undue reliance on these statements. Memory
Pharmaceuticals disclaims any intent or obligation to update any forward-looking
statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this press
release.

                                      # # #

</EX-10.38>

<EX-10.39>
 3
 y19213exv10w39.txt
 EX-10.39: EXCLUSIVE LICENSE AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 10.39

                           EXCLUSIVE LICENSE AGREEMENT

This Exclusive License Agreement (this "AGREEMENT") entered into as of the 14th
day of October, 2005 by and between MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP., a Delaware
corporation, having its principal place of business at 100 Philips Parkway,
Montvale, New Jersey 07645 ("MEMORY"), and AMGEN INC., a Delaware corporation,
having its principal place of business at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks,
California 91320 ("AMGEN").

      Whereas, Memory owns all right title and interest in and to the patents
and patent applications set forth on Schedule 1 hereto (the "LICENSED PATENTS");

      Whereas, Amgen and Memory are parties to that certain Collaboration and
License Agreement dated October 14, 2005 (the "LICENSE AGREEMENT");

      Whereas, Memory desires to grant Amgen an exclusive license to the
Licensed Patents on the terms and conditions set forth in the License Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual representations, warranties
and covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration,
and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereby agree as follows:

1. Grant of License. Memory hereby grants Amgen an exclusive license to the
Licensed Patents for all uses, including prophylaxis, palliative, diagnostic,
and therapeutic, on the terms and conditions set forth in the License Agreement.

2. Further Assurances. Memory shall take all actions and execute all documents
necessary for Amgen to perfect its rights hereunder. Amgen shall reimburse
Memory for any out of pocket costs incurred in connection therewith.

3. Recordal. Amgen shall have the right to record this Agreement as necessary to
perfect its interest herein, including with the United States Patent and
Trademark Office and similar offices in other countries throughout the world.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have each caused a duly authorized
officer to sign this Agreement.

AMGEN INC.                                 MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP.

By: /s/ Roger M. Perlmutter                By:/s/  James R. Sulat
    -----------------------------------       ---------------------------------
Name:  Roger M. Perlmutter, M.D., Ph.D.    Name:  James R. Sulat
Title: Executive Vice President,           Title:  President & CEO
Research and Development

</EX-10.39>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 y19213exv23w1.txt
 EX-23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 23.1

            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors of Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp.:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on
Form S-3 (No. 333-129188) and the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No.
333-114201, No. 333-122738, No. 333-127485 and No. 333-131728) of Memory
Pharmaceuticals Corp. of our report dated March 30, 2006, with respect to the
balance sheets of Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp. as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
and the related statements of operations, stockholders' equity/(deficit), and
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2005, which report appears in the December 31, 2005 annual report on Form 10-K
of Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Short Hills, New Jersey
March 30, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 y19213exv31w1.txt
 EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1

            CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO
            RULE 13A-14(A) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

I, James R. Sulat, certify that:

     1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Memory Pharmaceuticals
        Corp.;

     2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
        of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
        the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
        statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered
        by this report;

     3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
        information included in this report, fairly present in all material
        respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
        of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

     4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
        establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
        defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the
        registrant and have:

        a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
           disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
           supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
           registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
           us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
           which this report is being prepared;

        b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
           and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
           effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
           end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
           and

        c) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
           control over financial reporting that occurred during the
           registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
           quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
           affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
           registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

     5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
        our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
        to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
        board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

        a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
           operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
           reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
           record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

        b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
           employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
           control over financial reporting.

Date: March 30, 2006

/s/ James R. Sulat
______________________________
James R. Sulat
President & Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 y19213exv31w2.txt
 EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2

            CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO
            RULE 13A-14(A) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

I, Joseph M. Donabauer, certify that:

     1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Memory Pharmaceuticals
        Corp.;

     2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
        of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
        the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
        statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered
        by this report;

     3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
        information included in this report, fairly present in all material
        respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
        of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

     4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
        establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
        defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the
        registrant and have:

        a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
           disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
           supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
           registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
           us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
           which this report is being prepared;

        b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
           and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
           effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
           end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
           and

        c) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
           control over financial reporting that occurred during the
           registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
           quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
           affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
           registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

     5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
        our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
        to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
        board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

        a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
           operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
           reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
           record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

        b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
           employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
           control over financial reporting.

Date: March 30, 2006

/s/ Joseph M. Donabauer
________________________________________
Joseph M. Donabauer
Vice President & Controller
(Principal Accounting and Financial Officer)

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 y19213exv32w1.txt
 EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1

                CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

                          MEMORY PHARMACEUTICALS CORP.

                           CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO

                            18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,

                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO

                 SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

Each of the undersigned officers of Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp. (the "Company")
hereby certifies to his knowledge that the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the period ended December 31, 2005 (the "Report"), as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof, fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and that the information contained in the
Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of the Company.

/s/ James R. Sulat
________________________________________
JAMES R. SULAT
President & Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)

March 30, 2006

/s/ Joseph M. Donabauer
________________________________________
JOSEPH M. DONABAUER
Vice President  & Controller
(Principal Accounting and Financial Officer)

March 30, 2006

* A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has been provided to Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp.
  and will be retained by Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp. and furnished to the
  Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. This written
  statement accompanies the Form 10-K to which it relates, is not deemed filed
  with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and will not be incorporated by
  reference into any filing of Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp. under the Securities
  Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, irrespective of any
  general incorporation language contained in such filing.

</EX-32.1>

