<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_93542_0000950137-06-004055_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1008475</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>259181</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>513168</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>50</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-06-004055.hdr.sgml : 20060418
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331174942
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-06-004055
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060418

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ENESCO GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000093542
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	WHOLESALE-MISCELLANEOUS NONDURABLE GOODS [5190]
		IRS NUMBER:				041864170
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-09267
		FILM NUMBER:		06730501

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WINDSOR DR.
		CITY:			ITASCA
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60143
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6308755300

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WINDSOR DR.
		CITY:			ITASCA
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60143

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STANHOME INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STANLEY HOME PRODUCTS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19820513

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Lg2OkMc6ebaznOXTHW8GLM4Q5+paJA3iqrOyVfVc7Gwjzt0HFlpWWHwTmhkXelxR
 iTWDIs2Hm5E12pi1t89Pgg==

 0000950137-06-004055.txt : 20060418

10-K
 1
 c03867e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form  10-K  

Commission file number 0-1349 

Enesco Group, Inc. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Illinois 

04-1864170  

(State or other jurisdiction of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

225 Windsor Drive, Itasca, Illinois  

60143  

(Address of principal executive offices) 

(Zip Code)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code 

(630)  875-5300  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act: 

Title of each class  
       
      Name of each exchange on which registered  

Common Stock, par value $.125 per share, 
    together with the Associated

New York Stock Exchange 

Common Stock Purchase Rights 
    ( Common Stock )

Pacific Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act: 

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Act.     Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Act.     Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Act during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past
90 days.     Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation  S-K  is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form  10-K  or any
amendment to this
Form  10-K.        

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer.     Large accelerated
filer         Accelerated
filer         Non-accelerated
filer   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Act.)     Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was $43,432,686 on
June 30, 2005. The number of shares outstanding of the
registrant s Common Stock as of March 15, 2006 was
14,920,479 shares.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Portions of the Registrant s Proxy Statement for the 2006
Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference
into Part III of this
Form  10-K. 

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page    

PART I.   

Item 1.

Business  

5 

Item 1A.

Risk Factors  

13 

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments  

20 

Item 2.

Properties  

21 

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings  

21 

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

22 

PART II.   

Item 5.

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
    Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

22 

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data  

24 

Item 7.

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operation  

26 

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

46 

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

48 

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure  

76 

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures  

76 

Item 9B.

Other Information  

76 

PART III.   

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant  

76 

Item 11.

Executive Compensation  

77 

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
    and Related Stockholder Matters  

77 

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  

77 

Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

77 

PART IV.   

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  

77 

1999 Non-Employee Director Plan as Amended    
     1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan as Amended    
     1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan as Amended    
     1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan as Amended    
     Subsidiaries    
     Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
     Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Statement of CEO and Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906    

2

Table of Contents   

Forward-Looking Statements 

This report and other written reports and oral statements made
from time to time by Enesco Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries
( Enesco ,  we  or  our ) and its
management may contain cautionary or  forward-looking
statements  as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995.

These statements can be identified by the use of such words as
 anticipate,   estimate, 
 expect,   project,   intend, 
 plan,   believe  and other words of similar
meaning, but these words are not the exclusive means of
identifying such statements. In particular, these include
statements relating to intentions, beliefs or current
expectations concerning, among other things, future performance,
results of operations, and the outcome of contingencies, such as
legal proceedings and financial condition. Forward-looking
statements give current expectations or forecasts of future
events. They do not relate strictly to historical or current
facts.

Any or all of the forward-looking statements made in this report
and in any other public statements may turn out to be incorrect.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on
circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. We
caution you that actual future results of operations may vary
materially from forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you
should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of
actual future results. Any forward-looking statement made in
this report speaks only as of the date of such statement. We
operate in a continually changing business environment and
undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable
securities laws. However, you should consult any further
disclosures we make on related subjects in
Forms  10-Q,   8-K,   10-K 
or other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC).

It is not possible to predict or identify all factors that
potentially could cause actual results to differ materially and
adversely from expected and historical results. Such factors
include, but are not limited to:

Operating Improvement Plan 

Ability to implement Enesco s comprehensive plan for
    operating improvement and to achieve its goals for cost savings
    and market share increases. 

Ability to comply with the covenants in the existing
    U.S. credit facility and to enter into and comply with the
    covenants in new credit facilities to finance operational
    requirements at competitive costs and interest rates. 

Business Environment 

Day-to -day effects of
    current economic conditions and market fluctuations. This
    includes contributing factors, such as inflation, interest and
    foreign currency rate changes, which may create a positive or
    negative impact on operations. 

Consumer interest in products is seasonal and may vary based on
    current market demand fluctuations and time of year. 

Effects of terrorist activity, armed conflict and epidemics,
    possibly causing a business disruption in global economic
    activity, and changes in logistics and security arrangements.
    This is particularly significant with respect to our heavy
    reliance on external manufacturing facilities located in China. 

Competitive activities, particularly those of our main
    competitors, which can significantly influence giftware prices
    and product demand. 

The level of success of our new product introductions and those
    of our competitors will impact our competitive position. 

3

Table of Contents   

Ability to maintain strategic alliance agreements, particularly
    with Jim Shore Designs, Inc., in the event Enesco experiences a
    change in control, including, but not limited to, a change in
    the President/CEO of Enesco. 

Sales Environment 

Ability to secure, maintain and renew licenses and contracts,
    particularly Jim Shore Designs, Inc., Disney and Priscilla
    Hillman ( Cherished
    Teddies    ),
    which are our top performers and make up approximately 30% of
    associated product line revenues. 

Changes in the geographical mix of revenue for the U.S. and
    international, which will impact gross margin. 

Ability to grow revenue in mass and niche market channels. 

Mass retailers  attempts at direct sourcing and determining
    the right product designs. 

Sales and profitability, which can be affected by changes over
    time in consumer preferences from one type of product to
    another. This may create a shift in demand from products with
    higher margins to those with lower margins or to products we do
    not sell. 

Success in implementing new credit standards and a new credit
    scoring system, and continuing to improve days sales outstanding. 

Production, Procurement and Distribution 

Ability to implement and execute supply chain distribution
    improvements and cost savings with a third-party logistics
    company using a new computer system. 

Timing of customer orders, shipments to the U.S. from
    suppliers in China and other developing countries, and the
    ability to forecast and meet customer demands for products in a
    timely and cost-effective manner. 

Ability to understand metrics to track and effectively manage
    manufacturing and supply chain lead times, which cause
    fluctuations in inventory levels and order fulfillment
    timeliness. 

Changes in customs regulations, tariffs, freight and political
    climate, which can adversely affect results of operations. 

Availability to source products due to changes in conditions
    that impact suppliers including environmental conditions, laws
    and regulations, litigation involving suppliers, transportation
    disruptions, force majeure events and/or business decisions made
    by suppliers, which could have an adverse impact on operating
    results. 

Legal and Other 

Risk of trademark and license infringements, and our ability to
    effectively enforce our rights. 

Ability to comply with the continued listing standards of the
    NYSE. 

The actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing
    from judgments, assumptions and estimates used in determining
    the value of certain assets (including the amounts of related
    allowances), liabilities, claims and tax assessments of
    undetermined merit and amount asserted against us for various
    legal matters and other items reflected in our Consolidated
    Financial Statements. 

4

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Item 1.  
     
      Business.   

General 

Enesco Group, Inc. ( Enesco,   we  or
 our ) was organized in 1937 and is incorporated in
Illinois. Our principal executive offices are located at 225
Windsor Drive, Itasca, Illinois 60143.

We operate in a single industry segment, which designs,
manufactures and markets a variety of licensed and proprietary
branded giftware and home and garden d cor products to
retailers in the U.S., Canada and Europe.

Enesco conducts business through its subsidiaries and affiliated
corporations. Our subsidiaries are wholly owned (including their
jurisdiction of incorporation) and, as of December 31,
2005, include: Enesco Limited (England), Enesco France S.A.
(France), Enesco International Ltd. (Delaware), Enesco
International (H.K.) Limited (Hong Kong), N.C.
Cameron & Sons Limited (Canada), Enesco Holdings
Limited (England), Stanley Home Produtos De Limpeza Ltda.
(Brazil), and Gregg Manufacturing, Inc. (California). All
subsidiaries currently are active, except for Stanley Home
Produtos De Limpeza Ltda.

Business Developments 

In January 2006, Enesco entered into a new strategic alliance
agreement with Jim Shore Designs, Inc. Under this agreement, Jim
Shore Designs reaffirms and strengthens its commitment to
Enesco, which, among other things, continues the relationship
between Enesco and Jim Shore Designs three years from the
effective date, November 23, 2005, through
November 22, 2008, and through November 22, 2011
unless either party chooses not to renew. The strategic alliance
agreement focuses on key gift and seasonal categories that have
been very successful for Enesco and Jim Shore Designs.

Near the end of the fourth quarter of 2005, Enesco began
transitioning distribution and warehousing operations from our
Elk Grove Village, Illinois (EGV) facility to a third-party
logistics company which it believes will be a more
cost-efficient approach in our supply chain. In November 2005,
we signed a new five-year commitment with National Distribution
Centers (NDC), an affiliate of NFI Industries, to provide
warehousing and distribution services for our primary
U.S. operations. NDC is operating a leased facility in the
Indianapolis metropolitan area, of which Enesco occupies
approximately 150,000 square feet. To account for the costs
associated with this transition, we recorded a restructuring
charge for severance costs of $0.2 million in the fourth
quarter 2005. As the transition continues into 2006, we expect
additional transition costs of approximately $0.5 million
to be incurred in the first half of 2006. The EGV facility is
scheduled to close in 2006. Employment levels at this facility
were reduced by 87 positions in January 2006 and an additional
87 positions will be terminated in 2006 as business needs
dictate.

In September 2005, Enesco announced a comprehensive plan to
improve our operating performance and establish a platform for
gaining an increased share of the wholesale gift market in the
U.S., Canada and Europe (the  Operating Improvement
Plan ). This operating model will target gross margins in
the range of 40% to 45% and an operating profit margin of 3% to
5% to be achieved in 2007. The Operating Improvement Plan
centers around three key initiatives: rationalizing the product
portfolio; reducing corporate overhead, general and
administrative and marketing costs; and creating a more
efficient and cost-effective distribution and warehousing model.
As a result of the Operating Improvement Plan, which began in
the fourth quarter of 2005 and will continue throughout 2006, we
anticipate achieving pre-tax cost savings on an annualized basis
in the range of $34 million to $38 million,
anticipated to be fully realized in 2007. These cost savings
include approximately $13 million in expenses that have
been incurred for the termination of the PMI license agreement,
bank penalty fees and accelerated depreciation related to the
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system.

Enesco received notification from the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) in September 2005 that it was not in compliance with
the continued listing standards of the exchange. The NYSE
considers Enesco  below criteria  because our market
capitalization was less than $75 million over a consecutive
30-trading-

5

Table of Contents   

day period and shareholders  equity was less than
$75 million. On October 14, 2005, Enesco submitted a
plan to the NYSE, demonstrating how it intends to comply with
the NYSE s continued listing standards within
18 months of receipt of their notice. On December 5,
2005, the NYSE accepted Enesco s plan. Enesco common stock
continues to be listed on the NYSE, subject to quarterly reviews
by the NYSE Listings and Compliance Committee to ensure progress
against our plan.

During the second quarter of 2005, we terminated our license
agreement, effective July 1, 2005 with Precious Moments,
Inc. (PMI) to sell  Precious
Moments    
licensed products. On July 1, 2005, we began operating
under an agreement to provide PMI with transitional services
related to its licensed inventory through December 31,
2006. As of December 31, 2005, however, PMI exercised its
option to bring these services in-house. The termination of the
PMI license agreement had a negative impact on sales and
operating profit in 2005, but is expected to have a positive
impact on earnings and cash flows in 2006 and 2007, due to the
elimination of the $15.0 million annual minimum royalty
payment. The net savings in 2005 on royalty costs is
$11.0 million due to the reduction of the
$15.0 million annual minimum royalty to $4.0 million.
The total net inventory transferred to PMI under this agreement
was $7.7 million, which did not include inventory owned by
our wholly owned subsidiary, N.C. Cameron & Sons. Under
a separate agreement, N.C. Cameron & Sons agreed to
continue to distribute  Precious
Moments    
product in Canada. N.C. Cameron & Sons  revenues
from the sale of  Precious
Moments    
products totaled $3.0 million and $2.6 million for the
years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

In April 2005, the  Lilliput
Lane   tm  
manufacturing facility in Workington, U.K. was closed, and its
operations were consolidated into the Penrith, England
manufacturing plant. The closure resulted in a headcount
reduction of 55 employees, with a one-time cost of
$0.9 million and expected annualized savings of
$1.5 million. The Workington plant was sold in September
2005 for $0.8 million, an amount approximating its net book
value less ordinary disposal costs.

In July 2004, Enesco Limited acquired certain assets of
Dartington Crystal Limited (Dartington) for $7.0 million.
Total goodwill recorded on this acquisition was
$1.2 million. Based in the U.K., Dartington is a designer
and manufacturer of a full range of uncut crystal products, such
as glassware, bowls, vases, candleholders and giftware. In the
fourth quarter of 2005, we performed our first annual impairment
analysis on the Dartington goodwill, and concluded that
impairment existed at December 31, 2005. A complete
write-off of the Dartington goodwill balance as of
November 30, 2005 of $1.1 million was recorded in the
fourth quarter ending December 31, 2005. In the fourth
quarter of 2005, following a review of our product strategy, a
decision was made that glassware is not a strategic fit for
Enesco. We therefore began to actively market the sale of the
Dartington operation at that time.

In February 2004, we acquired Gregg Gift Manufacturing, Inc.
(Gregg Gift) for $7.3 million. The total goodwill recorded
for this acquisition was $5.3 million. Based in the U.S.,
Gregg Gift is a supplier and distributor of inspirational
giftware, including book covers, organizers, tote bags, and
garden and home d cor accessories. During the fourth
quarter of 2005, we began to integrate Gregg Gift s
marketing and brand management into Enesco s inspirational
merchandise category.

Bilston & Battersea Enamels, plc (B&B), a
manufacturer and distributor of giftware, home accessories and
related products, including high quality, hand-decorated enamels
and sculptural boxes sold under certain  Halcyon
Days    
brands, was acquired by Enesco in April 2003. Enesco paid
approximately $4.4 million in cash ($3.7 million net
of acquired cash), which resulted in $2.9 million of
recorded goodwill related to the purchase. In 2004 and in early
2005, certain administrative functions of B&B were
integrated into Enesco Limited, resulting in annualized savings
of approximately $0.7 million in 2005.

Additional information on the above general business development
matters is set forth in the sections entitled
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  and  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements  of this
Form  10-K. 

6

Table of Contents   

Description of Business  

Enesco is a world leader in the design, manufacturing and
marketing of licensed and proprietary branded giftware, and home
and garden d cor products to a variety of specialty gift,
home d cor, mass-market and direct mail retailers. We
primarily serve markets in the U.S., Canada and Europe.

Enesco s product lines include some of the world s
most recognizable brands, including
 Bratz   tm  ,
 Border Fine
Arts   tm  ,
 Cherished
Teddies    ,
 Halcyon
Days    ,
 Heartwood
Creek   tm   
by Jim Shore, Lilliput
Lane   tm  ,
 Nickelodeon    ,
 Pooh &
Friends    ,
 Walt Disney Classics
Collections    
and
 Disney    ,
among others.

Products include diverse lines of accent furniture, wall
d cor, garden accessories, frames, desk accessories,
figurines, cottages, musicals, music boxes, ornaments,
waterballs, candles, tableware, general home accessories and
resin figures.

Products 

Enesco s giftware, and home and garden d cor products
    fall under three main categories: 

Proprietary Designs   

Enesco offers a line of proprietary branded products that are
    designed by Enesco s in-house creative group and certain
    contracted third-party artists. Our proprietary designs product
    lines in 2005 included: 

Blooming
    Wild   tm  

Dartington
    Crystal     

Growing Up Birthday
    Girls     

Border Fine
    Arts   tm  

Foundations     

Lilliput
    Lane   tm   

Circle of
    Love   tm  

Gregg
    Gift   tm   

Licensed Brands   

Enesco obtains brand name licenses to develop product formats
    that primarily are sold to mass-market and specialty gift
    retailers in the U.S. Our licensed product lines in 2005
    included: 

Bratz   tm  

Halcyon
    Days     

Pooh &
    Friends     

Cherished
    Teddies    

Heartwood
    Creek   tm
       by Jim Shore  

Precious
    Moments     

Children of the Inner
    Light    

My Little Kitchen Fairies
       tm   

Rudolph the Red-Nosed
    Reindeer     

John
    Deere    

Marvel     

Walt Disney Classics
    Collection     

Disney    

NASCAR     

Mary
    Engelbreit   tm  

Nickelodeon     

Third-Party Distribution   

Enesco has third-party distribution agreements that allow us to
    sell other manufacturers  product lines in our core
    channels of distribution. These strategic alliances expand the
    breadth of our product offerings, while minimizing product
    development costs. In 2005, we had third-party distribution
    agreements with the following: 

About Face Designs

Demdaco 

Lenox 

Artline

Franz Porcelain 

Publications International 

Our product lines consist of approximately 23,000 stock-keeping
units (SKUs) worldwide, including approximately 4,000 sold in
the U.S. Each year, Enesco undertakes a comprehensive
review of all products being sold and developed. Using an
analysis based on profitability and management judgment, Enesco
discontinues certain SKUs from its product lines where the
potential for consumer demand is low.

During the fourth quarter of 2005, as part of our Operating
Improvement Plan, we initiated a rationalization of our
U.S. product portfolio and found that as our product lines
have proliferated, certain

7

Table of Contents   

unproductive product lines remained. By the end of 2005, we
reduced the number of overall product lines in the U.S. by
more than 70%, from 170 to approximately 50, retaining only
those lines that met our minimum sales threshold and margin
criteria. As a result, we plan to close out the discontinued
products throughout 2006 and reduce our inventory levels by
approximately $11 million in 2006.

Our continuing product lines are giftable items within four
merchandise categories; decorative gift, inspirational, brand
enthusiast and occasion-based. We believe that these merchandise
categories elicit strong and sustainable market demand and
profitability, and leverage our core distribution base. The top
10 product lines in 2005 by merchandise category include:
 Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore  and  My Little Kitchen
Fairies   tm  
in the decorative gift merchandise category;
 Foundations    
and  Gregg
Gift   tm  
in the inspirational category;  Disney, Cherished
Teddies    
and  Rudolph the Red-Nosed
Reindeer    
in the brand enthusiast category; and  Circle of
Love   tm  ,
 Growing Up Birthday
Girls    
and  Children of the Inner
Light    
in the occasion-based merchandise category. These continuing
product lines, in total, represent approximately 80% of our
U.S. net sales in 2005, excluding  Precious
Moments    
product sales.

Significant Products  

Our most popular product line is  Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore.  This line accounted for approximately
$39.6 million, or 16% of our consolidated net revenues in
2005, compared to $35.6 million, or 13% in 2004. This is
the fourth consecutive year of increased revenues from this
product line.  Precious
Moments    
product revenues accounted for approximately $32.5 million,
or 13% of 2005 consolidated net revenues compared to
$55.7 million, or 21% in 2004. Of the $23.2 million
decrease in  Precious
Moments    
product revenues in 2005, $6.3 million occurred in the six
months ended June 30, 2005, as compared to revenues for the
first six months of 2004. The remaining decrease of
$16.9 million, which occurred over the last six months in
2005, resulted from our termination of the PMI license agreement
effective June 30, 2005. (See Note 11 of the
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  of this
Form  10-K.) 

Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore  and  Precious
Moments    
product lines accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net
revenue in 2005, 2004 and 2003, as shown below:

No other product lines or brands accounted for more than 10% of
consolidated net revenue in the last three years.

Principal Markets  

Enesco has a presence and competes in three major geographical
markets that include the U.S., Canada and Europe (primarily the
U.K., France and Germany). The U.S. market accounted for
approximately 55% of our consolidated net revenues in 2005 while
Europe accounted for 32%, Canada for 11% and various other
countries for 2%. Management expects this geographic mix to
remain at these approximate proportions in 2006.

Product Sourcing  

Enesco s product lines are manufactured by independent
vendors in the Far East and in the Philippines, Indonesia,
Thailand and Europe. Enesco International (H.K.) Limited in Hong
Kong provides the overall management of the sourcing and
production from our manufacturers in the Far East. Enesco
Limited s U.K. manufacturing plants supply in part the
 Lilliput
Lane   tm  ,
 Border Fine
Arts   tm  ,
 Halcyon
Days    
and Dartington product lines. During 2005, we closed our
 Lilliput
Lane   tm  
Workington facility in the U.K. and consolidated its operations
into our Penrith plant. The Workington plant was then sold in
September 2005.

8

Table of Contents   

The majority of Enesco products are manufactured through
third-party vendors in Asia and have suggested retail prices
ranging between $5 and $500. During 2005, Enesco s
purchases from its three largest contract manufacturers
accounted for approximately 15%, 11% and 9%, respectively, of
its total purchases. During 2005, approximately 70% of
Enesco s total product purchases came from manufacturing
sources located in the People s Republic of China, which
enjoys most-favored nation trade status with the U.S. Other
U.S. products primarily are purchased from Taiwan,
Thailand, Germany and Japan, none of which provide more than 10%
of our purchase requirements.

Our ability to import products and thereby satisfy customer
orders is affected by the availability of, and demand for,
quality production capacity abroad. Enesco competes with other
importers of specialty giftware products for the limited number
of foreign manufacturing sources that can produce detailed,
high-quality products at affordable prices. Foreign
manufacturing and procurement of imports is subject to the
following inherent risks: labor, economic and political
instability; cost and capacity fluctuations and delays in
transportation, dockage and materials handling; restrictive
actions by governments; nationalizations; the laws and policies
of the U.S. affecting importation of goods (including
duties, quotas and taxes); foreign currency fluctuations, and
tax laws. Moreover, we cannot predict what relevant political,
legal or regulatory changes may occur, or the type or amount of
any financial impact on Enesco such changes may have in the
future.

Enesco is dependent upon its ability to continue to conduct
business with vendors located in China, which is subject to
political uncertainties, the financial impact of which we are
unable to estimate. To the extent China may have its exports or
transaction of business with U.S. persons subject to
political retaliation, the cost of imports from China could
increase significantly and/or the ability to import goods may be
impaired materially. In such an event, there could be a material
adverse effect on Enesco until alternative arrangements for the
manufacture of our products are obtained on economic, production
and operational terms at least as favorable as those currently
in effect.

Our Vendor Certification Program requires all manufacturing
sources, whether affiliates or contract manufacturers, to agree
to, and comply with, quality compliance and labor standards
established and enforced by Enesco and certain of its licensors.

Enesco is certified by the Office of U.S. Customs and
Border Protection as a member of the Customs Trade Partnership
Against Terrorism (CTPAT). The Department of Homeland Security
instituted CTPAT as a means to identify low risk importers and
allow the free flow of goods even under heightened security
conditions. Enesco s certification is strategically
important since it may reduce the risk of significant delays in
the importation of our products. Also, our certification will
permit us to become, or continue to be, a vendor for certain
U.S. customers who require CTPAT certification as a
condition to conducting business.

Marketing and Sales 

Enesco markets its product lines primarily through retail
promotions, tradeshows, and private shows held in major U.S. and
foreign cities, as well as through catalogs, collector clubs,
trade advertising and the Enesco website. In 2005, our primary
marketing focus was brand building for Enesco s proprietary
product lines, such as
 Foundations    
and  Gregg
Gift   tm  ,
and for Enesco s licensed brands, such as  Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore  and  Disney  related licenses. Each of
these product lines experienced revenue growth in 2005 compared
to 2004 as shown in the chart below:

9

Table of Contents   

Our product lines are displayed in our leased showrooms located
in the U.S., Canada, England, France and Hong Kong. During the
fourth quarter of 2005, we implemented a consolidation strategy
for all of our non-essential U.S. showroom locations. This
strategy focuses on growing the major market showrooms in
Atlanta, Dallas and Los Angeles on a year-round basis. As a
result of this consolidation, we negotiated lease buyouts with
the landlords of the remaining showrooms that we do not want to
occupy on a year round basis. The impact of terminating these
showroom leases resulted in a restructuring charge of
approximately $0.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2005.
The showroom consolidation strategy is expected to result in
annual savings of approximately $2.0 million.

Our collectible brand enthusiast product lines are primarily
marketed through collector club programs where, for a
non-refundable annual fee, consumers may subscribe for exclusive
product offerings and newsletters as a member of one of our
collector clubs. New items and limited edition pieces are
introduced annually to consumers. Every year, a number of
existing pieces are retired from these collectible lines to
allow for new introductions and to keep each line balanced based
on consumer demand. As of December 31, 2005, Enesco had
approximately 108,000 active members in its clubs, an 18%
decrease from 2004 membership levels, excluding the impact of
the July 1, 2005 transfer of  Precious
Moments    
collector club memberships to PMI as part of our license
termination agreement. We believe that the overall reduction in
collector club memberships is due to the declining market
interest in, and demand for, collectible products.

During the first quarter of 2005, Enesco restructured its
U.S. marketing and sales organization areas to enhance the
effectiveness of these critical functions and to organize its
sales personnel based on whether their customers utilize
centralized buying (headquarters-based buying) versus buying on
an individual retail outlet basis. As a result, we consolidated
our former multiple channel marketing structure into one
simplified and focused marketing organization. We organized our
sales function under two umbrellas: field sales and headquarters
sales. Our field sales group focuses on independent store buying
and is comprised of approximately 100 field account executives
based throughout the U.S and approximately 15 inside sales
account executives who work with their field counterparts. Our
headquarters sales group utilizes a team of national account
executives and customer service specialists to manage the
larger, national and mass-market accounts.

Our operations in the U.K., Canada and France each have their
own employee sales organizations. Enesco also sells its products
through distributors in approximately 25 countries around the
world.

Methods of Distribution 

In order to serve customers throughout the U.S., product is
shipped from our overseas vendors to Enesco s warehouse and
distribution facility, which is located in Elk Grove Village. In
November 2005, we announced the transition of our primary
U.S. distribution and warehousing operations to National
Distribution Centers (NDC), a third-party logistics company. NDC
is operating a leased facility in the Indianapolis metropolitan
area, of which our products occupy approximately
150,000 square feet. As part of Enesco s Operating
Improvement Plan, we believe that outsourcing our distribution
and warehousing operations to a third-party logistics provider
will enable us to improve supply chain efficiencies, improve
customer service, consolidate our U.S. distribution
operations, improve financial performance and build on our core
strengths of new product development and sales.

We began moving all inventory related to our continuing product
lines to the NDC facility during late December 2005 in
conjunction with the timing of our normal annual physical
inventory count. NDC began shipping product to our customers
from its facility in January 2006. Our discontinued product
lines will continue to be distributed to customers from the EGV
distribution facility through 2006.

Enesco also uses third-party warehouse and distribution
facilities in Fort Mills, South Carolina, to handle the
distribution of certain products to mass merchants, China, to
handle large seasonal orders, and Fenton, Missouri, to handle
warehouse and distribution of the  Walt Disney Classics
Collection    
in the U.S. Shipments from Enesco to its customers are
handled by United Parcel Service and other commercial

10

Table of Contents   

carriers. As a result, we are not dependent on a single carrier
and we have several alternatives if one carrier is unable to
handle our shipments.

Our subsidiaries in Canada and the U.K. have distribution
facilities to service their operations. Enesco Limited s
main distribution facility is located in Carlisle, England.
Enesco Limited also utilizes small distribution facilities in
Bilston, England for the  Halcyon
Days    
product line and in Torrington, England for the Dartington line.

Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property 

Enesco continuously enters into and renews license agreements
relating to trademarks, copyrights, designs and products, which
enable us to market new items compatible with our existing
product lines, to refresh our product offerings for changing
consumer preferences, and to reduce the risk of dependency on
one line. Enesco s licenses are either non-exclusive or
exclusive for specific products in specified channels and
territories. Royalties are paid on licensed items and, in some
cases, advance royalties or minimum guarantees are required by
agreements.

Protection of all of Enesco s intellectual property,
whether owned or licensed, is important to our business. Enesco
maintains an aggressive and visible program to identify and
challenge companies and individuals worldwide who infringe upon
its registered trademarks and copyrighted designs.

Enesco owns approximately 300 trademark registrations. The
registrations for Enesco s trademarks are maintained and
renewed provided that the trademarks are still in use for the
goods covered by such registration. Enesco historically has
renewed its registered trademarks and expects to continue to
renew them as business needs require.

Seasonality 

Consumer interest in our home and garden d cor and everyday
gift products is seasonal and may vary based on current market
demand fluctuations and time of the year. Enesco also produces
specially designed product for holiday seasons and gift-giving
occasions, including Christmas, Valentine s Day, Easter,
Mother s Day, Father s Day, Halloween and
Thanksgiving. Quarterly revenues are influenced by the shipment
of seasonal merchandise. Historically, revenues peak in the
third quarter of each year as merchandise is typically shipped
during that time in preparation for the Christmas shopping
season.

Working Capital 

Enesco attempts to minimize its inventory levels by shortening
the period of time from when a product is conceptualized to when
it is delivered to our customers. Generally, a product is
designed, sculpted, manufactured and marketed to our current or
perspective retailers before Enesco begins shipping the product
to customers. Since the majority of our products are
manufactured through third-party vendors in China and Thailand,
with an inherent delayed fulfillment time, it is necessary for
us to maintain minimum daily inventory levels to satisfy the
needs of our customers.

In 2005, we adjusted our ordering and shipping policies for our
seasonal and Christmas products. Rather than shipping seasonal
products in April, May and June, we now make products to order,
and spread the shipment to our retail customers and payments to
our vendors from June through October. Also in 2005, we began
shipping products directly to our customers from a third-party
logistics provider in China in order to reduce our distribution
costs and inventory levels.

In 2005, we implemented a change in our customer everyday
payment terms, from 90 days down to 45 days. These
initiatives have helped to reduce our days sales outstanding in
accounts receivable, from 92 days at December 31, 2004
to 69 days at December 31, 2005. Depending on sales
volume and distribution requirements, Enesco offers its retail
customers various extended payment terms and special programs.
These programs provide retailers the opportunity to sell
products prior to paying Enesco. We believe our general terms of
sale are competitive in the giftware industry.

11

Table of Contents   

Customers 

Enesco has over 44,000 customers worldwide. Our core customer
base includes independent gift retailers, national gift chains,
mass merchants, military post exchanges, club warehouses, home
television shopping networks, florists, hospital gift shops,
home d cor chains and independents, garden stores, jewelry
and department stores, and catalog retailers. Some of our major
customers during 2005 included: Avon Products, Inc., Carlton
Cards Retail, Inc., Hallmark Specialty Retail Group, John Lewis
Plc., Kirlin s, Kohl s Department Stores, Robinson
May, QVC Network, Target, Signet Group, Walgreens Company and
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. No single account represented more than 3%
of 2005 consolidated net revenues.

We compete with other designers, manufacturers and distributors
of giftware, and home and garden d cor to generally target
consumers with discretionary income, the amount of which is
sensitive to economic shifts.

Open Orders 

At December 31, 2005, Enesco had net open orders of
approximately $10.4 million, a 62% decrease over the
December 31, 2004 level of approximately
$26.2 million. The December 31, 2004 amount was
unusually large due to distribution disruptions in 2004 as a
result of the difficulties we encountered with our Enterprise
Resource Planning (ERP) system. The December 31,
2005 net open orders do not include orders for  Precious
Moments    
products due to the termination of our license agreement with
PMI. It is standard practice in the giftware industry, however,
that orders are subject to amendment or cancellation prior to
shipment for various reasons, including credit considerations
and product availability. Due to the many external factors that
can impact the status of unshipped orders at any particular
time, the comparison of backlog in any given year with those at
the same date in a prior year is not necessarily indicative of
prospective sales results in future years.

Competition 

Competition in the giftware and home and garden d cor
industry is highly fragmented among a number of companies and
product categories. The principal factors affecting success in
the marketplace include originality of product design, quality,
price, sales coverage, marketing ability, logistics and
sourcing. The ability to obtain and renew license agreements for
products also is significant.

Enesco competes with domestic and international companies in the
industry, such as Hallmark Cards, Inc., Lenox Group, Inc.,
Roman, Inc., Lladro Commercial S.A., The Boyds Collection, Ltd.
and Russ Berrie and Company, Inc., among others. No one
competitor is dominant in the industry.

We believe that Enesco s competitive strengths include our
core and well-established distribution base, our extensive
knowledge of the marketplace and its demands, our domestic and
international employee-based sales force, our ability to secure
licenses with popular and established brands, our ability to
bring innovative and trend-driven products to the market
quickly, our focus on giftable product categories, and the
market demand for our proprietary designs, as well as the
strength of our supplier relationships. Many of our competitors,
however, may have greater financial, marketing, distribution and
other resources than Enesco.

Design and Development 

Enesco s in-house creative group provides continuous
product design and development of certain of our products. This
group s responsibilities include all creative aspects from
concept to prototype, design and enhancement of products. Design
and development costs expensed are approximately 1% of sales.

Environmental 

Enesco is subject to various federal, state and local laws and
regulations governing the use, discharge and disposal of
hazardous material. Compliance with current laws and regulations
has not had and is not

12

Table of Contents   

expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition. It is possible, however, that environmental issues
may arise in the future that Enesco currently cannot predict.

Employees and Related Matters 

As of December 31, 2005, Enesco employed 1,182 employees
worldwide, 454 of whom work in our U.S. facilities and 728
in our international facilities.

In the first three quarters of 2005, we implemented several
corporate downsizings, which resulted in the termination of 178
employees in our U.S facilities and 83 in our international
facilities. In the fourth quarter of 2005, as part of our
Operating Improvement Plan initiative to reduce corporate
overhead, general and administrative and marketing costs, we
eliminated an additional 19 positions in the U.S. and 18
internationally. As announced in the fourth quarter of 2005, the
EGV warehouse and distribution facility will close in 2006 as a
result of our transition of domestic warehousing and
distribution functions to a third-party logistics provider.
Employment levels at the EGV facility were reduced by
87 positions in January 2006 and an additional
87 positions will be terminated in 2006 as business needs
dictate. Enesco continues to monitor employee-related expenses
to identify opportunities based on business operating plans.

Enesco s EGV warehouse personnel are represented by Local
Union No. 781 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters
under a contract that expires on June 30, 2007, and
includes 144 union member employees. Employees at our Dartington
factory are represented by the General Municipal and
Boilermakers Union in the U.K. under a contract that expires on
December 31, 2006. During 2005, Enesco did not incur any
work stoppages. We believe that our labor relations are good.

Financial Information about Geographic Areas 

Information required by this item is set forth in Note 5 of
the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  of
this Form  10-K. 

Available Information 

Enesco makes available, without charge, copies of its Proxy
Statement, Annual Report on
Form  10-K, 
Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q,  Current
Reports on
Form  8-K,  any
amendments to those reports and any other of its reports filed
with or furnished to the SEC on or through the Investor
Relations section of our website, www.enesco.com, as soon as
reasonably practicable after they are filed. You may request a
paper copy of materials Enesco files with the SEC by writing to
Investor Relations, 225 Windsor Drive, Itasca, Illinois
60143 or calling Enesco at (630) 875-5300.

In addition, the following policies and corporate governance
documents are available at the Investor Relations section of our
website: Enesco Corporate Governance Guidelines, Standards of
Business Conduct and Ethics, applicable to all directors and
employees, Audit Committee Charter, Human Resource and
Compensation Committee Charter, and Nominating and Governance
Committee Charter. Paper copies of these documents also are
available, free of charge, by calling (630) 875-5300 or by
sending a request in writing to Investor Relations, 225 Windsor
Drive, Itasca, Illinois 60143.

You may read and copy materials Enesco files with the SEC at the
SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
 1-800-SEC-0330.  Our
filings with the SEC also are available to you on the SEC s
Internet web site at www.sec.gov.

Information on our website is not incorporated into this
Form  10-K  or
Enesco s other securities filings and is not a part of them.

Item 1A.  
     
      Risk Factors   

The ownership of our common stock involves a number of risks and
uncertainties. Potential investors should carefully consider the
risks and uncertainties described below and the other
information in this

13

Table of Contents   

Form  10-K  before
deciding whether to invest in our securities. Our business,
financial condition or results of operations could be materially
adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks described
below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks that are
currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be
immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our
financial condition or results of operations.

We have had a history of losses and may not be profitable in
    the future.  

We have had a history of losses. We had a net loss of
$54.0 million in 2005 and a net loss of $45.2 million
in 2004. We are in the process of restructuring our operations,
including the recently completed upgrading of our information
systems, exiting the  Precious
Moments    
business, reducing SG&A costs, and improving our cash flow
management. However, we cannot assure that these efforts will
result in our return to profitability. Even if we are able to
generate a profit in the future, we may not be able to increase
our profits from quarter to quarter. If we are unable to achieve
and maintain profitability, the price of our common stock may
decline.

Our failure to successfully refinance or amend our current
    credit facility could cause us to incur significant additional
    bank fees and would impair our ability to conduct our normal
    business operations.  

On December 21, 2005, we entered into the tenth amendment
to our credit facility. This amendment provides for penalty fees
if we are unable to pay the outstanding loans and letters of
credit under our credit facility prior to certain dates in 2006.
In addition, the credit facility requires us to maintain
specified financial ratios, and our failure to maintain these
ratios would constitute an event of default under the credit
facility.

On March 31, 2006, we entered into the eleventh amendment
to our existing credit facility. This amendment reset each of
Enesco s 2006 cumulative minimum monthly EBITDA covenants
effective January 30, 2006 based on our reforecast. This
amendment also reduces the credit facility commitments from
$75 million to $70 million and accelerates by one
month, the tenth amendment fees. While we have been able to
renegotiate these ratios and obtain waivers of specific covenant
violations in the past, we cannot assure that we would be able
to continue to do so in the future.

We have entered into a commitment letter with LaSalle Business
Credit, LLC, an affiliate of one of the lenders under our
existing credit facility, to enter into a new $75 million
credit facility. This commitment letter initially expired on
January 31, 2006 but has been extended monthly through
April 30, 2006. However, there can be no assurance that we
will be successful in doing so on commercially reasonable terms,
or at all. Our failure to refinance our existing credit facility
or enter into a new credit facility could severely restrict our
ability to carry out our normal business operations, and as a
result we may be forced to sell assets, reorganize under an
appropriate bankruptcy provision, or liquidate certain
strategically selected assets.

Our failure to generate sufficient cash to meet our liquidity
    needs may affect our ability to service our indebtedness and
    grow our business.  

Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our
indebtedness, amounts borrowed under our senior credit facility,
and to fund any capital expenditures we may make in the future,
if any, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the
future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general
economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are
beyond our control.

Subject to our ability to either extend our existing credit
facility and/or secure replacement financing by January 1,
2007, we believe our cash flow from operations, together with
available cash and available borrowings under our credit
facility, will be adequate to meet future liquidity needs.
However, we cannot assure you that our business will generate
sufficient cash flow from operations in the future that our
currently anticipated long-term growth in revenues and cash flow
will be realized on schedule or in an amount sufficient to
enable us to service indebtedness, or that future borrowings
will be available to us under the senior credit facility. We may
need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including

14

Table of Contents   

our credit facility, on or before maturity. There can be no
assurance that we will be able to do so on commercially
reasonable terms or at all.

Our existing credit facility contains, and any new credit
facility will most likely contain, various covenants which limit
our management s discretion in the operation of our
business and the failure to comply with such covenants could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations. 

Our credit facility contains various provisions that limit our
management s discretion by restricting our ability to,
among other things:

incur additional indebtedness; 

pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our
    common stock; 

make investments; 

incur liens; 

transfer or sell assets; and 

consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of our
    assets. 

We anticipate that we will be required by lenders to agree to a
change in control default covenant in our replacement credit
facility if our CEO and President were to resign. Any failure to
comply with the restrictions of our credit facility or any other
subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of
default. An event of default may allow the creditors, if the
agreements so provide, to accelerate the related debt as well as
any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default
provision applies.

Our indebtedness imposes constraints and requirements on our
    business and financial performance and our compliance and
    performance in relationship to these could materially adversely
    affect our financial condition and operations.  

We have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our significant
indebtedness could:

require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flows
    from operations to payments on our indebtedness, including
    penalties, which would reduce the availability of this cash to
    fund working capital, expansion of our business, and other
    general corporate purposes; 

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the markets in which we operate; 

place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that have less debt; and 

limit our ability to obtain additional funds. 

We have received a delisting notice from the New York Stock
    Exchange, and if we are unable to comply with the conditions of
    our plan to meet the continued listing standards, we will be
    delisted, which would result in decreased liquidity and
    increased volatility for our common stock.  

We received notification from the New York Stock Exchange on
September 1, 2005 that we are not in compliance with the
NYSE s continued listing standards. As a result, we
submitted a plan to the NYSE demonstrating how we intend to
comply with these standards over the next 18 months and are
subject to quarterly monitoring for compliance with these
standards. If we are unable to meet the criteria and are
delisted, we may be unable to have our common stock listed on
Nasdaq because of minimum stock price and other listing
requirements and, as a result, we would likely have our common
stock quoted on the
 Over-the -Counter
Bulletin Board, or the OTC BB, which would also require us
to delist our common stock from the Pacific Stock Exchange.
Securities that trade on the OTC BB generally have less
liquidity and greater volatility than securities that trade on
the NYSE and Nasdaq. In addition, because issuers whose
securities trade on the OTC BB are not subject to the corporate
governance and other

15

Table of Contents   

standards imposed by the NYSE and Nasdaq, our reputation may
suffer, which could result in a decrease in the trading price of
our shares.

The market price of our common stock has historically
fluctuated and is likely to fluctuate in the future. 

The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely. For
example, in 2005, the lowest price for our common stock was
$1.12 and the highest price for our common stock was $8.70. The
market price of our common stock can fluctuate significantly for
many reasons, including, but not limited to:

our ability to successfully obtain replacement financing; 

the success of our efforts to reorganize our operations; 

our financial performance; 

our ability to maintain our listing on the NYSE; 

our ability to successfully introduce new products and the
    popularity of our existing products; 

acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us
    or our competitors; 

decisions by investors to de-emphasize investment categories,
    groups or strategies that include our company or
    industry; and 

market conditions in the industry, the financial markets, and
    the economy as a whole. 

It is likely that our operating results in one or more future
quarters may be below the expectations of security analysts and
investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock
would likely decline. In addition to fluctuations in the market
price of our common stock, the stock market has experienced
extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations
can be unrelated to the operating performance of particular
companies. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common
stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could
adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.
Additionally, future stock price volatility for our common stock
could provoke the initiation of securities litigation, which may
divert substantial management resources and have an adverse
effect on our business, operating results and financial
condition.

If we undergo a change in control, including the resignation
    or termination of our CEO and President, we may be unable to
    maintain our strategic alliance with Jim Shore Designs, Inc.  

Our strategic alliance agreement with Jim Shore Designs, Inc.
focuses on key gift and seasonal categories that have been very
successful for us. This agreement continues through
November 22, 2008, and will be extended an additional three
years, unless either party decides not to renew. However, if we
undergo a  change in control,  which is defined in the
agreement as including a change in the CEO and President
positions, both of which are held by Cynthia Passmore, Jim Shore
Designs, Inc. would be able to terminate the agreement. If the
agreement were terminated, we would lose one of our most
successful and growing product lines, which would have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

We are highly dependent upon the ability of our senior
    management and Keystone Consulting Group to effectively run our
    operations.  

We have been experiencing changes in our senior management team.
For instance, we appointed a Chief Financial Officer in January
2005 who resigned in July 2005. We then appointed a Chief
Accounting Officer to handle these functions. In addition, we
have eliminated the position of Chief Operating Officer as part
of our downsizing efforts. In connection with the development
and implementation of our Operating Improvement Plan, we have
engaged Keystone Consulting Group (Keystone), a restructuring
advisor. Our engagement letter with Keystone is cancelable by
either party upon written notice to the other. We are highly
dependent on Keystone to assist us in implementing the Operating
Improvement Plan.

16

Table of Contents   

Our ability to implement our business strategy is dependent upon
our senior management s ability to run our business
effectively. We currently have an employment agreement with our
CEO and President, but not with our other executive officers. We
currently have a consulting agreement with Keystone, which
expires March 31, 2006, which we are in the process of
extending at least through June 30, 2006. We cannot assure
you that we will be able to retain any of our executives or that
we will be successful in extending Keystone s engagement
following its expiration on March 31, 2006 on terms
favorable to us, or that Keystone will have the resources
necessary to assist us in the continued implementation of our
Operating Improvement Plan. Our business, results of operations
and financial condition could be materially adversely affected
by the loss of any of these persons or Keystone and the
inability to attract and retain appropriately qualified
replacements. In addition, as noted above, if our CEO and
President resigns or is terminated, our licensing agreement with
Jim Shore Designs, Inc. would be at risk of being terminated.

If we cannot develop products that will appeal to customers
and enter into favorable licensing agreements, we may not be
able to compete effectively. 

We believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon
our ability to continue to develop new products that will appeal
to consumers. Historically, we have received a substantial
portion of our revenues through a small number of very
successful licensing agreements. Our success is dependent upon
our ability to retain these critical licenses on favorable terms
and to enter into new licensing agreements that will result in
the introduction of successful product lines. We face
significant competition for licenses, which may cause us to pay
higher royalty rates and to guarantee minimum annual payments.
As our most successful licenses expire, the competition for
renewing these licenses could intensify significantly. We cannot
assure you that we will be successful in the introduction,
manufacturing and marketing of any new products or product
innovations, or develop and introduce, in a timely manner,
innovations to our existing products that satisfy customer needs
or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new
products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner,
and at favorable margins, would harm our ability to successfully
grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and financial condition.

If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property
rights, competitors may manufacture and market products similar
to ours, which could adversely affect our market share and
results of operations. 

Our success with our proprietary products depends, in part, on
our ability to defend our intellectual property rights. If we
fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights,
competitors may manufacture and market products similar to ours.
In addition to our proprietary designs, we obtain brand name
licenses to develop product formats. Occasionally, we become
involved in litigation with our licensors, such as our recently
settled litigation involving Jim Shore Designs, Inc. Enforcing
our rights under our licensing agreements in this manner is
expensive to us, distracting to management and may strain
relationships with our licensors. In addition, our ability to
successfully market these products would be adversely affected
if competitors were able to develop, use or sell products that
are similar to our products.

We have, in the past, experienced problems managing our
supply chain and business processes, and our future success is
dependent upon our ability to improve these functions. 

In 2004, we unsuccessfully attempted to implement a new
Enterprise Resource Planning system intended to integrate our
supply chain and business processes. As a result, we were unable
to ship products, we incurred expenses related to excess
inventory, and we experienced record-keeping problems involving
freight billing, customer invoicing and inventory management
accuracy. To remedy the situation, we were forced to incur costs
related to additional personnel and consultants in 2004, which
increased our labor and IT costs significantly. Our future
success is dependent upon our ability to successfully manage
these functions. If we are unable to do so, we would incur
increased operating costs and would encounter delays in shipping
our products, which would result in a potential loss of revenues
and customers and

17

Table of Contents   

would therefore have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

We are dependent upon the ability of NDC, a third-party
logistics company, to manage our U.S. distribution and
warehouse operations. 

As part of our Operating Improvement Plan, we have hired NDC, a
third-party logistics company, to provide storage, handling,
inventory management, shipping, receiving, repackaging, order
processing and related clerical support for our business. These
functions are critical to the success of our business, and we
are entirely dependent upon NDC to perform these functions
efficiently. In addition, we may incur significant costs under
the agreement with NDC. Any problems that we experience in our
arrangement with NDC could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

Competition in our markets may hinder our ability to execute
our business strategy, achieve profitability, or maintain
relationships with existing customers. 

The markets for giftware and home and garden d cor products
are highly competitive. In these industries, we compete against
numerous other domestic and foreign companies. Competition in
the markets in which we operate is based primarily on
originality of product design, quality, price, sales coverage,
marketing ability, logistics and sourcing.

Many of our competitors have substantially greater revenue and
resources than we do. Our competitors may take actions to match
our new product introductions and other initiatives. Because
many of our competitors source their products from third
parties, our ability to obtain a cost advantage through sourcing
is reduced. Certain of our competitors may be willing to reduce
prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with us.
Further, retailers often demand that suppliers reduce their
prices on existing products. Competition could cause price
reductions, reduced profits or losses, or loss of market share,
any of which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

To compete effectively in the future in our markets, among other
things, we must:

maintain strict quality standards; 

develop new products that appeal to customers; and 

deliver products on a reliable basis at competitive prices. 

Our inability to do any of these things well could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition.

If the trend toward retail store consolidation in the
independent gift channel in the U.S. continues, our
revenues may decline unless we can grow share in our core gift
channel or grow revenues in alternate channels. 

In recent years, retail shopping patterns in the U.S. for
our products have changed to include stronger sales in the mass,
chain drug and grocery channels and over the Internet, while
there has been consolidation of retail specialty stores in the
card and gift channel. Our business strategy involves aligning
our resources and leveraging our core distribution base, to gain
share in four merchandise categories: decorative gifts,
inspirational gifts, brand enthusiast gifts and occasion-based
gifts. If we are unable to grow market share in these
merchandise categories or expand in alternative channels at
levels that offset the decline in sales due to the consolidation
of retail stores in the specialty gift channel in the U.S., our
revenues will continue to decline.

18

Table of Contents   

Because we do not have long-term commitments from many of our
customers, we must estimate customer demand, and errors in our
estimates could have negative effects on our inventory levels
and revenues. 

We have more than 40,000 customers worldwide, and no single
customer accounted for more than 3% of our consolidated sales in
2005. Non-seasonal purchase commitments may be made in advance
of our receipt of customer orders and are often non-cancelable.
It is standard practice in our industry that customer orders are
subject to amendment or cancellation prior to shipment for
various reasons. Our purchase commitments are made in advance of
our receipt of customer orders and are often non-cancelable. As
a result, we are required to estimate the inventory levels and
enter into purchase commitments necessary to fulfill our orders
and maximize sales. On occasion, we have been unable to
adequately respond to customer cancellations or unexpected
increases in customer orders. Accordingly, we may be faced with
excess inventory or the inability to adequately respond to
unexpected increases in customer purchase orders, in which case
we may incur higher expenses related to excess inventory or,
alternatively, we may lose the revenue associated with the
additional purchase orders and our customer relationships may
suffer.

We are dependent upon third-party suppliers whose failure to
perform adequately could disrupt our business operations. 

We currently source a significant portion of our products from
third parties. Our ability to select and retain reliable vendors
who provide timely deliveries of quality products will impact
our success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of
quality products. We typically do not enter into long-term
contacts with our primary vendors and suppliers. Instead, most
of our products are supplied on a  purchase order 
basis. As a result, we may be subject to unexpected changes in
pricing or supply of products. Any inability of our suppliers to
timely deliver quality products or any unanticipated change in
supply, quality or pricing of products could be disruptive and
costly to us.

Our reliance on manufacturing facilities and suppliers in
China could make us vulnerable to supply interruptions related
to the political, legal and cultural environment in China. 

We do not own any of our manufacturing facilities, except on a
limited basis in the United Kingdom. A significant portion of
our products are manufactured by third-party suppliers in Asia,
primarily the People s Republic of China. During 2005,
approximately 70% of our total product purchases were from
manufacturing sources in China. Our ability to continue to
select reliable vendors who provide timely deliveries of quality
products will impact our success in meeting customer demand for
timely delivery of quality products. Furthermore, the ability of
these suppliers to timely deliver finished goods and/or raw
materials may be affected by events beyond their control, such
as inability of shippers to timely deliver merchandise due to
work stoppages or slowdowns, or significant weather and health
conditions (such as SARS or the avian flu) affecting
manufacturers and/or shippers.

There is no assurance that we could quickly or effectively
replace any of our suppliers if the need arises. Our dependence
on these suppliers could also adversely affect our ability to
react quickly and effectively to changes in the market for our
products. In addition, international manufacturing is subject to
significant risks, including, among other things:

labor unrest; 

political and economic instability; 

cost and capacity fluctuations; 

delays in transportation, dockage and materials handling; 

restrictive actions by governments, including nationalization of
    assets; 

United States laws and policies affecting the importation of
    goods; 

international political, military and terrorist
    developments; and 

19

Table of Contents   

international tax and trade laws. 

Labor in China has historically been readily available at
relatively low cost as compared to labor costs in North America
and Europe. China has experienced rapid social, political and
economic change in recent years. A substantial increase in labor
costs in China could affect the price that our suppliers charge,
which would lower our gross margins and therefore have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
of operations.

Changes in the cost or availability of raw materials could
adversely affect our results of operations. 

Pricing and availability of raw materials used in our products
can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control,
including labor costs, production levels, competition, consumer
demand, commodity costs (such as oil based resins and pigments),
and general economic conditions. This volatility can
significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials
to us, and may, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

If the price of raw materials used in manufacturing our products
increases, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
pass any portion of such increases on to our customers.
Conversely, when raw material prices decline, customer demands
for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the
extent we have existing inventory, lower margins. As a result,
fluctuations in raw material prices could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

We may not be able to sell our non-strategic business assets
at favorable prices. 

As part of our Operating Improvement Plan, we are attempting to
reduce our overall number of product lines and concentrate on
products that we believe will have strong and sustainable market
demand. As a result, we are currently in the process of
attempting to sell some of our assets that we believe are not
consistent with our strategy. There is no assurance that we will
be able to sell these assets on favorable terms, or at all. If
we are unable to do so, we may be forced to wind down these
operations, which would impose additional costs and management
distraction on us.

Our business is seasonal, which may cause our operating
results to vary from quarter to quarter. 

Sales of certain of our products are seasonal. For instance, we
produce specially designed products for holiday season and
gift-giving occasions. Our revenues will typically peak in the
third calendar quarter of each year. As a result, comparisons of
our results from quarter to quarter may not be meaningful and
cannot necessarily be relied on as indicators of future
performance. In addition, we may also experience quarterly
fluctuations in our sales and income depending on various
factors, including, among other things, changes in the ordering
patterns of our customers during a particular quarter, and the
mix of products sold.

Currency fluctuations may significantly increase our expenses
and affect our results of operations. 

While we transact business predominantly in U.S. dollars
and most of our revenues are collected in U.S. dollars, a
portion of our costs, such as for our products, payroll, rent,
and indirect operational costs, are denominated in other
currencies. Changes in the relation of these and other
currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our sales and
profitability and could result in unfavorable foreign currency
translations or exchange losses. For instance, if the government
of China allowed the Chinese yuan to rise substantially versus
the U.S. dollar, the cost of our products produced in China
would rise. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on
our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. There
can be no assurance that the U.S. dollar foreign exchange
rates will be stable in the future or that fluctuations in
financial markets will not have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

Item 1B.  
     
      Unresolved Staff Comments   

Not applicable.

20

Table of Contents   

Item 2.  
     
      Properties   

The following chart summarizes the material owned and leased
real estate of Enesco worldwide:

*  
     
    Total property is 6.2 acres 

Management is exploring alternatives for its headquarters office
in Itasca, Illinois, including the possible sale of the building
and/or a sale and leaseback, in pursuit of a lower facility cost
and an infusion of cash. We believe that the facilities of
Enesco are adequate, suitable and of sufficient capacity to
support Enesco s current operations.

Item 3.  
     
      Legal Proceedings   

In July 2005, Enesco filed suit against Department 56, Inc.,
Sunshine Productions, Inc., Kevin Knowles and Jim Shore Designs,
Inc. in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois, Eastern Division. The complaint, as against Jim Shore
Designs, alleged breach of contract related to Enesco s
license agreement with Jim Shore Designs, which license
agreement was filed with the SEC on a
Form  8-K,  dated
October 5, 2004. Enesco specifically alleged that Jim Shore
Designs breached provisions relating to Enesco s
exclusivity under the license agreement. With regard to
Department 56, the complaint alleged a violation of
Section 43(a) of the Lanham Act. As against Sunshine
Productions, Enesco alleged that Sunshine Productions interfered
with Enesco s contract with Jim Shore Designs. Finally, in
the complaint, Enesco alleged that Sunshine Productions and
Kevin Knowles engaged in a civil conspiracy and induced an
employee to breach her duty of loyalty to Enesco. Enesco sought
monetary and equitable relief in connection with the suit.
Defendants filed counterclaims against Enesco.

21

Table of Contents   

On August 15, 2005, Enesco filed a motion for preliminary
injunction against Department 56, Inc. based on our amended
complaint in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois, Eastern Division. Enesco sought preliminary injunctive
relief relating to Enesco s claim that Department 56 had
unfairly competed through allegedly false and misleading
statements and conduct. The amended complaint alleged that the
actions of Department 56 violated federal unfair competition
laws, as well as the Illinois Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices
Act and the Illinois Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business
Practices Act. The motion for preliminary injunction sought an
order preliminarily prohibiting Department 56 from engaging in
conduct that constitutes unfair competition.

In January 2006, Enesco announced that it had resolved its
complaint and counterclaim with Jim Shore Designs, Inc. As part
of the settlement, we terminated our license agreement with Jim
Shore Designs effective November 23, 2005, and entered into
a new strategic alliance agreement. Under this agreement, Jim
Shore Designs reaffirms and strengthens its commitment to
Enesco, which, among other things, continues the relationship
between Enesco and Jim Shore Designs three years from the
effective date, November 23, 2005, through
November 22, 2008, and through November 22, 2011
unless either party chooses not to renew. The Strategic Alliance
Agreement focuses on key gift and seasonal categories that have
been very successful for Enesco and Jim Shore Designs.

On February 28, 2006, Enesco announced that it had resolved
its complaint and counterclaim with Department 56, Inc. relating
to Jim Shore Designs, Inc. As part of the settlement agreement,
Enesco and Department 56 agreed to a full waiver of any claims
against each other and released each other from any losses,
claims, damages and expenses relating to this lawsuit. The
settlement agreements between Enesco and Department 56 and Jim
Shore Designs, Inc. do not resolve Enesco s ongoing
litigation with Kevin Knowles and/or Sunshine Productions.

In the ordinary course of Enesco s business, there are
various legal proceedings pending against Enesco and its
subsidiaries. In addition, while we cannot predict the eventual
outcome of these proceedings, we believe that none of these
proceedings will have a material adverse impact upon our
business, financial condition or results of operations.

Item 4.  
     
      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.

PART II 

Item 5.  
     
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities   

Enesco s common stock is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange and Pacific Exchange (symbol: ENC). On
September 1, 2005, Enesco received notification from the
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) that we were not in
compliance with the continued listing standards of the exchange.
Enesco is considered  below criteria  by the NYSE
because our total market capitalization was less than
$75 million over a consecutive 30-trading-day period and
our shareholder s equity was less than $75 million. On
October 14, 2005, we submitted a plan to the NYSE,
demonstrating how we intend to comply with the continued listing
standards within 18 months of our receipt of the notice. On
December 5, 2005, the NYSE accepted our plan for continued
listing on the NYSE. Enesco s common stock continues to be
listed on the NYSE, subject to quarterly reviews by the NYSE
listings and compliance committee to ensure progress against our
plan.

22

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth, for the indicated periods, the
high and low sales price for Enesco s common stock as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange.

Enesco did not declare dividends in 2005 or 2004. Enesco s
revolving credit agreement contains financial and operating
covenants, including restrictions on repurchasing Enesco shares
and paying dividends. Enesco does not anticipate paying
dividends in the foreseeable future.

As of March 15, 2006, there were approximately 2,150 record
holders of Enesco s common stock and approximately 4,600
beneficial owners.

The following table sets forth certain information as of
December 31, 2005 with respect to equity compensation plans
under which shares of Enesco common stock may be issued.

(1)  
     
    Options granted at time of employment to D. DaleMolle, P. Perez
    and J. Smith as part of their employment agreements. 

23

Table of Contents   

Item 6.  
     
      Selected Financial Data   

The selected consolidated balance sheet data as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the selected consolidated
statements of operations data for 2005, 2004 and 2003 have been
derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this
Form  10-K.  The
selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001, and the selected consolidated statements of
operations data for 2002 and 2001 have been derived from audited
consolidated financial statements not included in this
Form  10-K.  The
selected consolidated financial data should be read in
conjunction with the sections entitled  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  and  Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  included in this
Form  10-K. 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements. 

(1)  
     
    Revenue figures include shipping and handling cost billed to
    customers and are reduced by co-op advertising allowances. 

(2)  
     
    Cost of sales includes non-cash charges of $1.5 million and
    $8.7 million in 2005 and 2001, respectively, related to the
    write-down of inventory values as part of product
    rationalization programs initiated by Enesco. 

(3)  
     
    In conjunction with the PMI termination agreement, Enesco
    incurred a loss of $7.7 million equal to the cost of
    inventory transferred to PMI. 

24

Table of Contents   

25

Table of Contents   

Item 7.  
     
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operation   

Enesco Group, Inc. 

The following discussion provides more depth into the financial
condition and results of operations of Enesco and its
subsidiaries. This discussion should be read in conjunction with
the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes
and risk factors included elsewhere in this
Form  10-K.  The
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Form  10-K  include
the accounts of Enesco and all of its subsidiaries. All
significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in
the Consolidated Financial Statements. All subsidiaries are
wholly owned. The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
U.S. requires the use of our management s estimates.
Actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain prior
year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current
year presentation. We operate in a single industry segment,
which designs, manufactures (primarily through third parties
located in Asia) and markets a wide variety of licensed and
proprietary branded giftware and home and garden d cor
items to retailers primarily throughout the U.S., Canada and
Europe.

Overview 

We began 2005 faced with the results of many changes from
previous years; most of the results presented challenges, while
a few positioned Enesco for a more positive future. As we look
back, many significant events occurred specifically in 2004
which negatively impacted our business. Three general factors
particularly affected Enesco:

In January 2004, we moved to a new ERP system designed to
integrate our supply chain and business processes, such as order
entry, order management, inventory, shipping and billing
software programs. This transition unfortunately was plagued
with many problems. The transition, particularly in our
U.S. warehouse and distribution center, caused the failure
of several critical operational functions. Enesco experienced a
severe slow-down in product shipments, incurred expenses related
to excess inventory and experienced recordkeeping problems, such
as freight billing, customer invoice and inventory management
accuracy. To remedy the situation, we were forced to incur
additional costs for labor and consultants in 2004, which
increased our overall labor and IT costs significantly.
Following a thorough evaluation, we announced in December 2004
that we would stabilize the ERP system by using the core
components of our legacy information system. The plan was to
update certain modules of the legacy software to provide
advanced features and capabilities required by our business. We
incurred accelerated depreciation charges related to the ERP
system of $0.8 million in December 2004.

The second major issue was our level of operating expenses,
which were deemed to be too high for our revenue base. Simply
stated, we were spending as though we were a much larger
company. A year of interim leadership at Enesco resulted in a
lack of focus on curbing expenditures and increased spending for
outside services and consultants. Unplanned costs related to the
ERP system implementation also triggered increased spending for
outside technology services and consultants. Operating expenses
also were impacted by the acquisitions of the  Walt Disney
Classics
Collection    
license and the Dartington Crystal and Gregg Gift businesses
earlier in the year.

The third factor that negatively impacted business in 2004 was
the declining  Precious
Moments    
business. Customer trends changed and the demand for collectible
figurines as a category declined significantly from 2003 to
2004. The  Precious
Moments    
business represented 32% of consolidated net revenues in 2003,
but decreased to 21% in 2004. Our license agreement for
 Precious
Moments    
included a $15 million minimum royalty guarantee annually,
which reduced our operating margin as product sales declined.
Therefore, our gross margins on  Precious
Moments    
products declined rapidly, reflecting the continued decline in
sales while we were obligated to pay a fixed $15 million
royalty.

26

Table of Contents   

2005 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

We began to address these business challenges in 2005, which was
a year of transition to what we believe will be a more
sustainable and profitable business model.

Successful Implementation of our ERP System 

In the second quarter of 2005, we successfully migrated from the
ERP system at our Elk Grove Village distribution center to an
upgraded version of our legacy information system. Additionally
we stabilized the order management and financial modules of the
PeopleSoft system. This combined enhanced system enabled us to
return to normal order fulfillment levels and ended the delays
and the loss of revenue we previously experienced. Since we
began re-use of the order management and financial modules, and
intend to continue to do so, we revised our estimate of the
remaining useful life of the portion of the asset value that
relates to these two modules. The remaining net book value of
our PeopleSoft system was $1.1 million as of
December 31, 2005. All costs associated with the
distribution center ERP system were depreciated fully as of the
end of the second quarter of 2005. Total accelerated
depreciation in 2005 amounted to $3.7 million, all of which
was recorded in the first half of 2005.

Exiting the Precious
Moments   
Business 

During the second quarter of 2005 we exited the  Precious
Moments    
business, terminating our license agreement with Precious
Moments, Inc. (PMI). As a result of the termination of our
license agreement, on July 1, 2005 we transferred the
U.S.  Precious
Moments    
product inventory and certain other assets, as well as certain
liabilities, related to the  Precious
Moments    
business to PMI. Additionally, we agreed to provide certain
transitional services to PMI on an as-needed basis through
December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2005, PMI
exercised its option to bring these services in-house. The
termination of our license agreement with PMI had a positive
impact on our cash position this year and will improve gross
margins in the future. In 2005, our annual gross margin
percentage would have been 4.2 percentage points higher if
we did not sell the  Precious
Moments    
product line in the U.S. during any portion of 2005.

Improved Cash Management 

To improve cash management, we accelerated liquidation of excess
and slow-moving inventory. As a result of the rationalization of
our product portfolio which we discuss below, we improved our
working capital position by lowering inventories from
$65.4 million to $40.7 million at December 31,
2005 compared to December 31, 2004. We adjusted the
ordering and shipping of our seasonal and Christmas products.
Rather than shipping seasonal products in April, May and June,
we now make products to order and spread the shipments to our
retail customers and payment to our vendors from June through
October. We will continue to experience a higher level of cash
collection in December due to our seasonal retail payment terms.
We also began to more strictly enforce our payment terms,
putting customers that were over 30 days past due on
accounts receivable hold and stopping shipments to those
customers.

In addition, we implemented a change in our customer everyday
payment terms, from 90 days down to 45 days. These
initiatives have helped to reduce our days sales outstanding in
accounts receivable, from 92 days at December 31, 2004
to 69 days at December 31, 2005 and continue to do so
in 2006.

We also stabilized our cash used in operations. For the year
ended December 31, 2005, net cash used in operations fell
to $4.4 million versus a use of $21.6 million in 2004.
This improvement in cash management was due primarily to
reduction in inventory and receivables. Changes in operating
assets and liabilities provided $34.0 million in 2005,
which compares favorably to 2004, during which $5.3 million
of cash was used. We were able to reduce our pre-tax salary
expense on an annualized basis in 2005 by $7.8 million in
the U.S. and $3.1 million internationally. Reduction of
expenses remained a priority for us throughout 2005.

27

Table of Contents   

The Operating Improvement Plan 

In the third quarter of 2005, we announced the new comprehensive
Operating Improvement Plan which is designed to build on the
positive changes we made in the first half of the year. Our goal
is to implement an operating model commensurate with other
leading companies in the giftware and related markets. This
operating model targets gross margins in the range of 40% to 45%
and a pre-tax operating profit margin of 3% to 5%. However,
Enesco s ability to achieve these targets is dependent on a
variety of factors, many of which are beyond Enesco s
control, including those discussed in the  Risk
Factors  section.

In June 2005, the Board of Directors approved hiring Keystone
Consulting Group (Keystone), a Chicago-based management and
turnaround consulting firm to assist Enesco in identifying
opportunities for cost reduction and organizational and
operational improvements. In August 2005, we extended the
agreement through March 31, 2006 to enter into a phase two
engagement with Keystone for continued implementation of our
Operating Improvement Plan. Enesco has the option to extend this
project in two more phases through September 30, 2006.
Enesco paid Keystone $2.1 million for services rendered in
2005 and $1.2 million for services rendered in the first
quarter of 2006. The Board of Directors is currently finalizing
an extension of the Keystone engagement through June 30,
2006 at a contract amount that has not yet been determined.

As a result of the Operating Improvement Plan, which will
continue throughout 2006, we anticipate achieving pre-tax cost
savings on an annualized basis in the range of $34 million
to $38 million, as more fully described below. These cost
savings include the non-recurrences of approximately
$13 million in expenses related to the termination of the
 Precious
Moments    
license agreement, bank penalty fees, and accelerated
depreciation related to the ERP system, as previously reported.
The cost savings are anticipated to be fully realized in 2007.

The Operating Improvement Plan focuses on three key initiatives:

rationalizing the U.S. product portfolio; 

creating a more efficient and cost effective distribution and
    warehousing model; and 

reducing global corporate overhead, general and administrative
    and marketing costs. 

Enesco began to implement this plan in the fourth quarter of
2005.

We evaluated our business and industry not solely to cut costs,
but also to maximize revenue potential. We have identified four
merchandise categories that leverage Enesco s strength
around which we will focus our business moving forward. This
strategy involves aligning the business and managing resources
to gain share in the four merchandise categories of decorative
gifts, inspirational gifts, brand enthusiast gifts and
occasion-based gifts. We believe this structure will allow us to
focus resources to deliver on our strategy of gaining market
share in each category by increasing transparency,
accountability and information flow across the business units
and functional teams.

Enesco believes that it is the only company in the industry that
maintains an employee-based sales force in the U.S., Canadian
and European markets. We believe that this, and our
concentration on top-performing product lines and four
merchandise categories, will strengthen our share of the gift
market in our core channels of distribution. We continue to
focus on our proprietary designs, with an emphasis on giftable
products.

1) Rationalization of the U.S. Product Portfolio 

The first initiative was the rationalization of the
    U.S. product portfolio. We found that while our product
    lines and SKUs have proliferated, many of these product lines
    are unproductive. In the U.S., our top performing lines, like
     Heartwood
    Creek   tm   
    by Jim Shore,
    Foundations    
    and  Gregg
    Gift   tm  ,
    have inventory turns at or above the industry rate of three
    times per year. However, nearly 70% of our lines averaged less
    than one turn per year and represent less than 7% of our
    annualized sales in the U.S. To correct this, we
    implemented a methodical process to reduce our overall number of
    product 

28

Table of Contents   

lines and concentrate on products that elicit strong and
    sustainable market demand and profitability and leverage our
    core and well established distribution base. We have clear
    criteria for the rationalization, including minimum sales
    thresholds, margin hurdle rates and the importance of the
    product to our long-term marketing strategy. 

We completed the product rationalization in the fourth quarter
    of 2005, reducing the number of overall product lines in our
    portfolio by more than 70%, from 170 product lines to
    approximately 50 product lines. The remaining lines in total
    represent approximately 90% of our U.S. sales, excluding
     Precious
    Moments    .
    Our top 10 product lines in the U.S. accounted for
    approximately 80% of net sales in 2005. We plan to eliminate
    those product lines that do not meet this criterion throughout
    2006. In so doing, we expect to reduce our gross inventory by
    approximately $11.0 million, such inventory having a book
    value of approximately $6.5 million. 

The remaining product lines are comprised of giftable products
    within four merchandise categories   decorative,
    inspirational, brand enthusiast and occasion-based. Our top 10
    product lines in 2005 by merchandise category include
     Heartwood
    Creek   tm   
    by Jim Shore  and  My Little Kitchen
    Fairies   tm  
    in our decorative merchandise category,
     Foundations    
    and  Gregg
    Gift   tm  
    in our inspirational category,  Disney, Cherished
    Teddies    
    and  Rudolph the Red-Nosed
    Reindeer    
    in our brand enthusiast category and  Circle of
    Love   tm  ,
     Growing Up Birthday
    Girls    
    and  Children of the Inner
    Light    
    in our occasion-based merchandise category. 

In November 2005, we announced the launch of  Disney
    Impressions,  a new Disney brand developed specifically for
    the U.S. marketplace. The  Disney Impressions
     collection showcases Disney characters as they celebrate
    special occasions and everyday moments. We also are working with
    Disney to develop general and decorative gifts for both the U.S.
    and international markets. 

In light of our new product strategy as announced in September
    2005, Enesco decided that glassware was not a strategic fit. We,
    therefore, actively began marketing the sale of the Dartington
    operation in the U.K. in the fourth quarter of 2005. 

2) Implementing a Cost-Effective Distribution and
Warehousing Model 

The second initiative in our Operating Improvement Plan was to
    transition our distribution and warehousing to a more
    cost-effective and efficient model that is more consistent with
    industry standards. Enesco expects pre-tax cost savings on an
    annualized basis from this initiative to be in the range of
    $4 million to $6 million and are included in the total
    Operating Improvement Plan annualized pre-tax cost savings
    estimate of $34 million to $38 million. 

In November 2005, we signed a five-year commitment with a
    third-party logistics provider, National Distribution Centers
    (NDC) to provide our warehousing and distribution services
    for our U.S. operations. We believe that this transition to
    a third-party for distribution and warehousing will allow us to
    improve supply chain efficiencies, improve customer services,
    consolidate our U.S. distribution operations, improve
    financial performance and build on our core strengths of new
    product development and sales. 

We began moving all inventory related to continuing product
    lines to the NDC facility during late December 2005 and began
    shipping products to customers in January 2006 from NDC, but at
    a slower than anticipated rate due to learning-curve issues at
    the new site. To account for the costs associated with this
    transition, we recorded a restructuring charge of
    $0.2 million in the fourth quarter 2005. As the transition
    carries into 2006, we expect additional transition costs of
    approximately $0.5 million to be incurred in the first half
    of 2006. 

3) Reducing Global Corporate Overhead, General and
Administrative and Marketing Costs 

The third initiative in our plan is to further reduce operating
    expenses to be consistent with the current size of our business.
    We intend to reduce corporate and general and administrative
    costs, as well as professional and consulting fees, by
    $30 million to $32 million pre-tax on an annualized
    basis to be fully realized in 2007. Included in these cost
    savings initiatives are the non-recurrence of the 

29

Table of Contents   

loss on the termination of the PMI license agreement of
    $7.7 million, the accelerated depreciation on the ERP
    system of $3.7 million and the $1.4 million in bank
    penalty fees that were recorded in 2005. 

Enesco initiated several personnel reductions of its U.S. and
    U.K. operations in 2005. In the U.S., the downsizings primarily
    affected the areas of marketing, operations, information
    technology, finance and communications. In the U.K., the
    downsizing focused on the elimination of redundancies within the
    organization and was completed across all areas of the business.
    The cost savings resulting from the 2005 salary expense
    reductions are estimated to generate pre-tax annualized cost
    savings of approximately $7.8 million in the U.S. and
    $3.1 million in the U.K. 

During the fourth quarter of 2005, we implemented a
    consolidation strategy for all of our non-essential
    U.S. showroom locations. This strategy focuses on
    increasing the profitability of the major market showrooms in
    Atlanta, Dallas and Los Angeles on a year-round basis. As a
    result of this strategy, we negotiated lease buyouts with the
    landlords of those remaining showrooms that we do not want to
    occupy on a year round basis. The impact of terminating these
    showroom leases was a charge to pre-tax income of approximately
    $0.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. This initiative
    is expected to result in pre-tax annual savings of approximately
    $2.0 million. 

The total cost savings expected to be realized in 2007 as a
result of the implementation of the Operating Improvement Plan
through December 31, 2005, as they relate to the reduction
in corporate overhead, general and administrative and marketing
costs are as follows:

(In millions)  

Downsizings in the U.S. 

$ 
     7.8 

Termination of the PMI license agreement

7.7 

Accelerated depreciation of ERP system

3.7 

Downsizings in the U.K. 

3.1 

Showroom consolidations

2.0 

Bank penalty fees

1.4 

Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and other administrative costs

1.0 

$ 
     26.7 

Additional Operating Improvement Plan initiatives expected to be
implemented in 2006, and result in annual savings of
$8 million to $10 million, include further reductions
in consulting and other outside services of $3 million,
decreases in bad debt expense of $1 million, and savings
from the transition to the new distribution and warehousing
model of $4 million to $6 million.

We believe that we have a clear simple position on growth. The
market we are in is largely fragmented with no dominant players.
The greatest growth potential for Enesco is in focusing on
market share expansion in our core merchandise categories and
channels in which we currently operate. From a historic
perspective, while the overall U.S. gift market is not
growing, it is very large (estimated to be $60 billion)
with a substantial opportunity for Enesco to increase sales
through market share expansion. We believe that we will be able
to do this by narrowing and focusing our product offerings on
giftable items in the four select merchandise categories. We
believe that these merchandise categories elicit strong and
sustainable market demand and profitability, and leverage our
core distribution base. To give you an idea of the size of the
market share opportunity, if Enesco were to acquire an
additional 1% share of the U.S. gift market, we could more
than double our current sales.

Bank Agreements and Fees 

In the second quarter of 2005 under our current credit facility,
Enesco was required to pay a total of $1.4 million in bank
fees because we did not close a replacement credit facility
prior to certain dates in the second quarter. During 2005 and
the first quarter of 2006, Enesco has been and is continuing to
seek replacement financing to pay off the outstanding loans
under our existing U.S. credit facility. On

30

Table of Contents   

December 14, 2005, we signed a commitment letter for a
replacement senior secured credit facility. In addition, on
December 21, 2005, we entered into a tenth amendment to our
existing U.S. credit facility, extending the facility
termination date from December 31, 2005 to January 1,
2007. The tenth amendment provides that, unless the outstanding
loans and letters of credit under the existing U.S. credit
facility are paid in full prior to the following dates, the
respective penalty fees will become payable:

The amendment also provides for a monthly fee beginning
January 1, 2006 through May 1, 2006 in the amount of
0.10% of the highest amount of loans outstanding during the
preceding month. This fee will increase to 0.20% beginning
June 1, 2006 through January 1, 2007. The amendment
establishes cumulative minimum consolidated EBITDA requirements
and cumulative maximum capital expenditure limitations, which
are each measured monthly during 2006.

On March 31, 2006, we entered into an eleventh amendment to
our existing U.S. credit facility. This amendment reset
Enesco s 2006 cumulative minimum monthly EBITDA covenants
effective January 30, 2006, based on our reforecast and
reduced the credit facility commitments from $75.0 million
to $70.0 million effective between the eleventh amendment
date and January 1, 2007. In addition, unless the
outstanding loans and letters of credits under the existing U.S.
credit facility are paid in full, the eleventh amendment
accelerates by one month the fees per the tenth amendment which
were to be due May 1, 2006 and June 1, 2006. The total
fee payable April 1, 2006 is $1,025,000 and, unless the
outstanding loans and letters of credit are paid in full prior
to May 1, 2006, the fee payable May 1, 2006 is
$750,000. The monthly fee of 0.10% of the highest loan amount
outstanding during the preceding month will increase to 0.20% on
May 1, 2006, rather than June 1, 2006 per the tenth
amendment, and will continue until the facility termination
date. Additional information is set forth in the section below
entitled  Credit facilities  and Note 2 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this
Form  10-K.  Enesco
was required to pay the January 1, 2006, February 1,
2006, and March 1, 2006 penalty fees totaling $475,000.
Enesco expects to be subject to and pay the April 1, 2006
penalty fee of $1,025,000.

Net Loss  

For the year ended December 31, 2005, Enesco incurred a net
loss of $54.0 million. This loss was due, in part, to the
termination of the PMI license agreement which resulted in a
reduction in  Precious
Moments    
product line sales of $23.2 million and a decline in gross
margin of $15.9 million which included termination
agreement costs of $7.7 million. In addition, increased
spending on bank fees, penalties and related legal services of
$3.9 million and accelerated depreciation on the ERP system
of $3.7 million, severance and facility closure provisions
of $2.8 million, inventory reserve provision of
$1.5 million related to the strategy to discontinue over
100 underperforming product lines, increased bad debt provision
of $1.9 million due to implementing tighter credit terms,
and the write-off of $1.1 million of Dartington goodwill in
addition to that recently acquired unit s $2.7 operating
loss contributed to our net loss. For a more complete discussion
of the net loss, refer to the Results of Operations, 2005
Compared to 2004 Consolidated Results.

Critical Accounting Policies 

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States requires management to make judgments,
assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in
the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes.
Estimates are used for, but not limited to, the accounting for
allowances for doubtful accounts and sales allowances, inventory
valuation, impairments of tangible and intangible assets, and
other special charges and taxes. Actual results could differ
from these estimates. When preparing an estimate, Enesco
determines what factors are most likely to affect the estimate.
Enesco gathers information inside and outside the organization.
The information then is evaluated and the estimate is made.

31

Table of Contents   

Following are the critical accounting policies that management
believes could have a significant impact on the consolidated
financial statements if these judgments, assumptions and
estimates used by management turn out to be incorrect.
Management has discussed these critical accounting policies with
Enesco s Audit Committee.

Accounts Receivable Allowances 

Doubtful Accounts    The allowance for doubtful
accounts is based on our assessment of the collectibility of
specific customer accounts and the historical write-off
percentage applied to outstanding accounts receivable. If there
is deterioration in a major customer s creditworthiness or
actual defaults are significantly different than our historical
experience due to changes in the business environment or other
factors, estimates of the recoverability of amounts due could be
affected. This reserve is comprised of two parts. The first
component is for specific accounts whose collectibility, in our
opinion, is in question. These accounts are reviewed on a
monthly basis and adjusted as deemed necessary. At
December 31, 2005, this reserve was $3.5 million as
compared to $1.7 million at December 31, 2004. The
second part is a general reserve, calculated by applying
historical bad debt rates to month-end accounts receivable
balances, after removing specific accounts identified as
uncollectible. At December 31, 2005, this component of the
reserve was $1.2 million compared to December 31,
2004, when it was $1.6 million. The historical rate, which
generally does not fluctuate materially, is adjusted annually or
as deemed necessary to reflect actual experience. Historical
trends do not guarantee that the rate of future write-offs will
not increase. If the general reserve percentage increased 1%, it
would require an increase to the reserve of $0.4 million,
as of December 31, 2005, and a corresponding increase in
bad debt expense of $0.4 million. The general reserve
percentage for bad debt at December 31, 2005 has increased
0.4% since December 31, 2004. The total allowance for
doubtful accounts balance at December 31, 2005, was
$4.7 million or 9.3% of total accounts receivable compared
to December 31, 2004, when the account was
$3.3 million, or 5% of accounts receivable. This percentage
increase is due primarily to a change in the assessment of
collectibility of accounts placed with attorneys or other
collectors.

Sales Returns and Allowances    Our estimated
provision for sales returns and allowances is recorded as a
reduction of sales revenue because it primarily relates to
allowances and other billing adjustments. In cases where credits
are issued for merchandise, the goods are typically not saleable
and are destroyed. The sales returns and allowances reserve
consists of two parts, the first of which is based on an
analysis of specific accounts in which the customer has taken a
deduction or similarly has challenged an invoice, and we believe
the claim will be accepted. This part of the reserve is reviewed
by management on a monthly basis and is adjusted as deemed
necessary. At December 31, 2005, this comprised
$2.2 million of the reserve balance as compared to
December 31, 2004, when it was $1.2 million of the
reserve balance. The second part is a general reserve,
calculated by applying historical percentages of sales returns
and allowances to the current and prior month s sales. We
believe two months to be a reasonable amount of time for
customers to receive and evaluate their order and request a
credit if necessary. At December 31, 2005, this component
of the reserve was $0.9 million, compared to
December 31, 2004 when this component of the reserve was
$1.3 million. The sales allowance balance at
December 31, 2005 was $3.1 million, or 6.0% of
accounts receivable. At December 31, 2004, the reserve was
$2.5 million, or 3% of accounts receivable. This percentage
increase is attributable primarily to a re-assessment of the
collectibility of customer deductions.

The general reserve fluctuates with sales volume, as sales
returns and allowances volumes increase or decrease with sales
levels. This percentage is adjusted yearly, or more frequently
if deemed necessary, to reflect actual experience. If the
general reserve percentage increased 1%, it would require an
increase to the reserve of $0.2 million (as of
December 31, 2005) and a corresponding decrease in net
revenues of $0.2 million. The general reserve percentage
for returns and allowances at December 31, 2005 has not
changed since December 31, 2004. Historical trends do not
guarantee that the rate of future returns and allowances will
not increase.

32

Table of Contents   

Inventory Reserves 

Excess or Slow Moving Inventory    As part of
our process of developing, forecasting and procuring products,
it is likely that excess inventory exists for certain products.
In order to liquidate this excess inventory, the selling price
frequently is reduced, often to an amount less than the product
cost. Therefore, an inventory reserve is maintained to properly
state inventory at the lower of cost or market. At every month
end, inventory balances by product are compared to unit sales of
that product for the most recent 12 months. The difference
between the inventory on hand, by product, and the last
12 months  sales is considered excess inventory and
subject to reserve. The portion of inventory determined to be
excess is reserved at varying percentages based on the
historical sales volume and whether or not the product is still
active or has been discontinued. Discontinued product that is
considered slow moving, even though it may not currently be
excess, is reserved at varying percentages based on historical
sales. Once inventory has been identified as excess or slow
moving, the reserve established on that portion of inventory
cannot be decreased, although further increases in the reserve
on that specific inventory may be necessary as market conditions
change. At December 31, 2005, the inventory reserve balance
was approximately $12.0 million or 24% of gross inventory
compared to $9.3 million or 12% of gross inventory at
December 31, 2004. This increase primarily is due to the
implementation of the product portfolio rationalization strategy
as a part of our Operating Improvement Plan to reduce the number
of active product lines from 170 to approximately 50 product
lines.

The recovery rate on the disposition of excess inventory depends
upon a number of factors, such as market demand for closeout
items and levels of such inventory. Historical averages are
developed annually or more often if deemed necessary, and used
to determine the likely recoverability of cost. If market
conditions deteriorate, it is likely that inventory will be sold
at greater discounts, necessitating an increase to the reserve.
A change of 5% in this loss percentage would result in an
additional inventory reserve of $1.3 million as of
December 31, 2005.

Inventory Shrinkage    Based on historical
trends, a reserve is established in anticipation of inventory
shrinkage during the year leading up to the time when we take
our physical inventory at year-end. This reserve is eliminated
at year-end when we record our actual inventory shrinkage as
part of the year-end physical inventory process. The quarterly
reserve related to shrinkage was $0.1 million for each of
the first three quarters in 2005. As a result of our
2005 year-end physical inventory process a $357,000
adjustment to inventory to record shrinkage was required
compared to $517,000 recorded in 2004.

Impairments of Tangible and Intangible Assets 

We assess the recoverability of significant tangible and
intangible assets, including goodwill, under the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142  
  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   and
SFAS No. 144     Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.   For
property, plant and equipment, we evaluate the recoverability of
these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be
recoverable. For goodwill, we perform an impairment assessment
annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise.
Based on our annual impairment analysis as of December 31,
2005, we concluded that we did have an impairment of the
goodwill associated with the 2004 acquisition of Dartington. The
total $1.1 million of goodwill attributable to Dartington
was written off in December 2005. Due to ongoing operating
losses from the U.S. businesses, excluding Gregg Gift,
which operates at a profit, an assessment of the carrying amount
of long-lived assets was again completed as of December 31,
2005 in accordance with SFAS No. 144. Based on the
positive undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from
our long-lived assets, we concluded that we did not have
impairment as of December 31, 2005. Future cash flow is
based on management s estimates. Should these estimates
change, write downs of long-lived assets may be required.

33

Table of Contents   

Tax Accruals 

Accruals have been established for taxes payable and potential
tax assessments, including potential interest as applicable. The
accruals are included in current income taxes payable since it
is uncertain as to when assessments may be made and taxes may be
paid. We have filed and continue to file tax returns with a
number of taxing authorities worldwide. We believe such filings
have been and are in compliance with applicable laws,
regulations and interpretations. Positions taken are subject to
challenge by the taxing authorities, often for an extended
number of years after the filing dates. To the extent accruals
differ from assessments, when the open tax years are closed or
the accruals are otherwise deemed unnecessary at a point in
time, the accruals are adjusted through the provision for income
taxes.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

2005 COMPARED to 2004 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 

Net Revenue and Gross Profit 

Net revenues in 2005 of $244.4 million decreased
$24.5 million, or 9.1%, from the 2004 level of
$269.0 million. Revenues in the U.S. declined by
$30.9 million, or 19.1%. Revenues from the sales of
collectibles continued to decrease in the U.S. and accounted for
$27.3 million of the decline, primarily due to the
substantially reduced level of  Precious
Moments    
product sales. Revenues for the year were impacted positively by
$1.2 million of higher Disney product line sales to our
mass-market and specialty gift retail accounts. Our  Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore  and
 Foundations    
product lines were up $4.0 million and $0.8 million,
respectively, for the year, yet not enough to offset revenue
declines in most of our other product lines. The February 2004
acquisition of Gregg Gift added $0.4 million in additional
revenues for 2005 as compared to 2004. International revenues
rose $5.7 million, or 5.2%, primarily due to the full year
impact of $6.8 million in 2005 related to Dartington which
was acquired in July 2004, $8.8 million in higher sales of
distributed products from strategic partners, offset by
decreases in the sales of collectibles and generally lower gift
sales. Currency rate adjustments during 2005 accounted for less
than $1.0 million of the increase in Enesco s
international sales. Net revenues excluding  Precious
Moments    
product sales and fees for 2005 were down 2.3% from comparable
revenues for 2004.

Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore  revenues in 2005 of $39.6 million
increased $4.0 million, or 11%, above 2004. This increase
is due to higher customer demand for home d cor and
large-scaled figural products.  Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore  revenues represented 16% of consolidated net
revenues in 2005 compared to 13% in 2004.

Precious
Moments    
product revenues in 2005 of $32.5 million decreased
$23.2 million, or 42%, versus 2004.  Precious
Moments    
product revenues represented 13% of consolidated net revenues in
2005 compared to 21% in 2004. This decrease primarily is due to
our termination of the PMI license agreement in 2005.

Revenues generated under our various Disney-related licenses in
2005 of $20.6 million, increased $1.2 million, or 6%,
versus 2004. Disney-related licenses revenues represented 8% of
consolidated net revenues in 2005 compared to 7% in 2004. This
increase primarily is due to new mass-market programs for banks,
photo frames and waterballs.

During 2005, the number of active memberships for Enesco s
collectors clubs decreased from 2004 membership levels,
continuing a downward trend indicative of the declining market
interest in and demand for these collectible products. There
were more than 108,000 active collector club members at the end
of 2005, a decrease of 18% from 2004, excluding the impact of
the transfer of club members to PMI as part of our license
termination agreement. Enesco transferred all rights and
privileges associated with the

34

Table of Contents   

U.S.  Precious
Moments    
collectors club to PMI, effective July 1, 2005. Collectors
clubs contributed approximately 1.8% and 2.1% of consolidated
net revenues in 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Gross profit in 2005 of $82.8 million was down
$23.8 million, or 22.3%, from 2004. The gross profit
percentage decreased from 39.6% in 2004 to 33.9% this year. The
gross margin percent excluding U.S.  Precious
Moments    
revenues and costs decreased to 38.1% for 2005 compared to 40.9%
for 2004, due in part to an increase in inventory reserve
provisions related to the strategy to discontinue under
performing product lines, increases in discontinued inventories
sold at a loss and decreases resulting from a less favorable mix
of products sold.

The following table presents a view of Enesco s business,
without U.S. sales, cost of sales and gross profit
generated from  Precious
Moments    
products, for 2005 and 2004.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A) 

SG&A expenses in 2005 of $130.0 million increased
$2.4 million, or 1.9%, above the 2004 level. The primary
costs associated with the increase include higher bank fees,
accelerated depreciation on the ERP system and incremental costs
due to the inclusion of Dartington s results of operations
for a full year in

35

Table of Contents   

2005 following our July 2004 acquisition. The following table
details the items that had significant impact on changes in
SG&A spending.

SG&A Expense    

Increase    

(Decrease)    

2005 vs. 2004    

(In millions)  

Reduced spending on selling and marketing initiatives

$ 
     (5.4 
     ) 

Reduced salaries and benefit costs

(5.2 
     ) 

Lower commissions due to reduced sales volume

(1.9 
     ) 

Lower travel and entertainment

(1.9 
     ) 

Higher bank fees

3.2 

Incremental SG&A costs from the Dartington acquisition

3.0 

Accelerated depreciation on ERP system

2.8 

Severance and plant closure costs

2.4 

Increase in bad debt expense

1.9 

Higher legal fees

1.7 

Higher Sarbanes-Oxley compliance costs

1.4 

Dartington goodwill write-off

1.1 

Other, net

(0.7 
     ) 

Net increase

$ 
     2.4 

Operating Income (Loss) 

The operating loss in 2005 increased to $47.2 million from
$17.0 million in the prior year. The main contributors to
this increased loss were lower gross profit of
$23.8 million, primarily due to lower sales volume with an
unfavorable impact of approximately $8.0 million, the loss
on the termination of the license agreement with PMI of
$7.7 million, increased inventory reserves of
$2.3 million, primarily attributable to the strategy of
reducing the number of product lines by approximately 70%, and
an increase in bank fees of approximately $3.2 million. The
U.S. 2005 operating loss of $51.9 million increased
$28.4 million from the operating loss in 2004 of
$23.5 million. International operating income in 2005 of
$4.7 million reflected a $1.8 million decrease from
the 2004 international operating income level of
$6.5 million primarily due to a $2.7 million operating
loss from the Dartington operations in 2005 compared to a
$0.5 million operating loss in 2004 and a $1.1 million
write-off of goodwill.

Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net 

Interest expense for 2005 increased $1.1 million to
$2.3 million due to higher borrowings and higher interest
rates. Other expenses decreased by $0.4 million in 2005 due
primarily to a reduction in unrealized foreign currency exchange
losses.

Provision for Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 

For 2005, income tax expense was $4.3 million, which was
comprised of a domestic tax benefit of $1.0 million and a
foreign tax expense of $5.3 million. The domestic tax
benefit is comprised principally of benefits totaling
$29.4 million from: a net operating loss (NOL)
($20.1 million); the reversal of a deferred tax liability
recorded in 2004 as explained below ($7.0 million); the
impact of 2004 tax return filings ($1.2 million); and a
benefit from the reversal of previously recorded tax reserves no
longer required ($1.1 million), offset by a deferred tax
asset valuation allowance expense of $28.4 million. The net
foreign tax expense is comprised of $2.5 million related to
operations and a reserve established related to an audit
assessment of $2.8 million.

36

Table of Contents   

For 2004, income tax expense was $27.4 million, comprised
of domestic tax expense of $23.3 million and foreign tax
expense of $4.1 million related to operations. The domestic
tax expense was comprised principally of a benefit from a NOL of
$12.9 million offset by an $18.6 million expense
related to the establishment of a valuation allowance to reduce
net deferred tax assets to their expected realizable amount and
by a $17.4 million expense related to the recording of a
deferred liability on unremitted earnings of certain foreign
subsidiaries because those entities were expected to become
guarantors of the parent s debt in 2005.

Effective as of December 31, 2004, Enesco was no longer
able to rely upon the indefinite reversal criteria of the
Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 23 with
respect to the reinvested earnings of certain of its foreign
subsidiaries due to the anticipated guarantee in 2005 of
Enesco s domestic debt by those subsidiaries, resulting in
the recognition of the $17.4 million deferred tax liability
and related tax expense noted above. The debt guarantees were
put into effect during August 2005 resulting in the recognition
of deemed dividends from those subsidiaries for tax purposes
under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Based upon evaluation
of its expected 2005 tax return filing position, Enesco
determined that the amount of deemed dividends was less than
originally estimated at the time of the establishment of the
deferred tax liability, and, accordingly, reversed
$7.0 million of the liability to 2005 tax expense, as noted
above.

Enesco made no qualifying repatriations under the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004 (the  Act ) during 2005 as there
was no benefit to earnings repatriations under the Act in light
of Enesco s current and prior year domestic NOLs.

Open Orders 

Net open orders at December 31, 2005 of approximately
$10.4 million decreased 62% over the December 31, 2004
level of approximately $26.2 million. The decrease is due
primarily to the effect of unshipped orders at December 31,
2004, resulting from the ERP system implementation issues and
fulfillment difficulties. The ERP issues were resolved in the
second quarter of 2005 when we returned to our upgraded version
of our legacy software system. The December 31,
2005 net open orders do not include orders for  Precious
Moments    
products due to the termination of our license agreement with
PMI. Open orders consist of orders received and approved by
Enesco, subject to cancellation for various reasons, including
credit considerations and product availability. We believe the
open orders as of December 31, 2005 are more indicative of
a normal year-end than the open orders at December 31, 2004.

2004 COMPARED to 2003 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 

Net Revenue and Gross Profit 

Net revenues in 2004 of $269.0 million increased
$12.6 million, or 5%, over the 2003 level of
$256.4 million. The increase primarily was due to the 2004
acquisitions of Gregg Gift and Dartington of $14.0 million,
successes among newer product lines such as  Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore  of approximately $23.7 million and
 Walt Disney Classics
Collection    
of approximately $9.2 million, and favorable foreign
currency translation rate impacts of approximately
$10.8 million. Those revenue increases were offset
partially by declining revenues for  Precious
Moments    
of approximately $27.5 million and  Cherished
Teddies    
of approximately $7.0 million. The remaining decline in
revenues of approximately $9.5 million resulted from lower
revenues in several smaller product lines such as  Growing Up
Birthday
Girls    ,
 John
Deere    
and  Mary s Moo Moos. 

U.S. net revenues in 2004 of $160.5 million decreased
$4.3 million, or 3%, below the 2003 level of
$164.8 million. The decrease primarily was due to lower
collectible market revenues from  Precious
Moments    
of $24.8 million, down 32%, and  Cherished
Teddies    
of $4.8 million, down 41%, $6.1 million from lower
revenues in several smaller product lines such as  John Deere
 and  Mary s Moo Moos  and lower mass-market
promotional revenues of $2.3 million and closeout revenues
of $2.6 million. These decreases were offset partially by
increased revenues from acquisitions and newer product lines,
such as  Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore  of approximately $21.0 million and the
 Walt Disney Classics
Collection    
license of

37

Table of Contents   

approximately $6.9 million. The 2004 acquisition of Gregg
Gift provided revenues of $7.2 million during the
10 months owned by Enesco. The U.S. revenue
represented 59% of total revenues in 2004 compared to 64% of
total revenues in 2003. This decrease of 5% primarily was due to
 Precious
Moments    
and  Cherished
Teddies    
revenue declines which more than offset revenue increases from
acquisitions, new product lines in 2004 versus 2003, and
increased international revenue.

International net revenues in 2004 of $108.5 million
increased $16.9 million, or 18%, above the 2003 level of
$91.6 million. The increase primarily was due to
$6.8 million increased revenues from the Dartington
acquisition in July 2004, sales of newer product lines, such as
 Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore  of approximately $2.6 million, smaller
product lines of approximately $3.3 million and the
favorable effect of changes in foreign currency translation
rates of $9.7 million. These increases were offset by
declines in  Precious
Moments    
of $2.7 million and  Cherished
Teddies    
of $2.2 million. International net revenues represented 41%
of consolidated revenues in 2004 compared to 36% in 2003. This
increase of 5% primarily was due to local currency revenues,
which were translated into U.S. dollars at higher exchange
rates in 2004 versus 2003, and the acquisition of Dartington.

The following product lines accounted for 10% or more of
consolidated revenue in 2004, 2003 and 2002:

Precious
Moments    
net revenues in 2004 of $55.7 million decreased
$27.5 million, or 32%, versus 2003. This decrease primarily
was due to continued lower consumer demand for collectible
figurines.

Cherished
Teddies    
net revenues in 2004 of $12.6 million decreased
$7.0 million, or 36%, versus 2003. This decrease was
primarily due to continued decline in consumer demand for
collectible figurines.

Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore  revenues in 2004 of $35.6 million
increased $23.7 million above 2003. The nearly two-fold
increase primarily is due to higher customer demand for the
unique design of these Jim Shore Designs products, and the added
international demand of approximately $2.6 million.

The number of collector club members in 2004 for  Precious
Moments    
and  Cherished
Teddies    
product lines decreased by approximately 20% compared to the 21%
decrease from 2002 to 2003, primarily due to lower consumer
interest in collectible figurines in 2004 versus 2003. Collector
clubs provided approximately 2% of consolidated revenue in 2004
compared to approximately 3% in 2003. In 2004, Enesco acquired
the  Walt Disney Classics
Collection    
collector club, which added more than 28,000 active members in
2004.

The licensing acquisition of  Walt Disney Classics
Collection    
provided revenues of $9.2 million in 2004.

Net revenues of newer product lines in 2004, such as
 Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore,
Bratz   tm  ,
 Walt Disney Classics
Collection    
and  My Little Kitchen
Fairies   tm  
accounted for approximately 19% of consolidated revenue in 2004
as compared to approximately 6% of consolidated revenue in 2003.

Gross profit in 2004 of $106.5 million decreased
$9.2 million, or 8%, below the 2003 level of
$115.7 million. The decrease primarily was due to ERP
system implementation difficulties, inventory valuation charges,
higher freight costs and changes in the overall product mix.
Additionally, incremental gross profit from the Gregg Gift and
Dartington acquisitions, the new  Walt Disney Classics
Collection    
and  Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore  product lines, and the favorable impact of
foreign currency translation rates were offset partially by a
volume-related decline in gross profit caused by lower product
revenue of collectible figurines lines,  Precious
Moments    
and  Cherished
Teddies    .
The gross profit margin expressed as a percentage of net
revenues was 39.6% in 2004, compared to 45.1% in 2003.

38

Table of Contents   

The following table reflects the changes in gross profit from
2003 to 2004:

Increase    

(In millions)  
       
      (Decrease)    

Factor 

Inventory valuation charges

$ 
     (2.0 
     ) 

ERP system implementation costs

(2.7 
     ) 

Higher freight costs

(2.0 
     ) 

Foreign currency translation rates

3.7 

Royalty costs

(4.9 
     ) 

Product mix (volume)

(12.2 
     ) 

Acquisition of Gregg Gift

2.9 

Acquisition of Dartington

2.2 

License acquisition of  Walt Disney Classics
    Collection    

5.8 

Total gross profit change

$ 
     (9.2 
     ) 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A) 

SG&A in 2004 of $127.5 million increased
$26.7 million, 26.5% above the 2003 level of
$100.8 million. The increase primarily is due to the normal
operating expenses from the  Walt Disney Classics
Collection    
license acquisitions, Dartington and Gregg Gift acquisitions of
approximately $9.6 million, the impact of foreign currency
translation rate changes of approximately $3.5 million, and
unplanned costs related to the ERP system implementation of
approximately $5.0 million. Additional costs were incurred
in 2004 for marketing efforts for the  Precious
Moments    
brand of approximately $1.0 million, Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 compliance of approximately $1.0 million, former
executives  and international severance of approximately
$2.3 million, strategic studies of $0.6 million and
depreciation on the ERP system of approximately
$1.6 million.

In 2004, there was a gain recorded on the sale of the EGV
facility of approximately $4.0 million.

Operating Income (Loss) 

The operating loss of $17.0 million in 2004 compares to an
operating profit in 2003 of $14.9 million. The decrease in
profit primarily was due to lower sales of  Precious
Moments    
and  Cherished
Teddies    
having an unfavorable impact on earnings of approximately
$25.0 million, offset by improved operating income of
approximately $14.0 million, primarily due to newer product
lines, such as  Heartwood
Creek   tm  
 by Jim Shore  and the acquisitions of the  Walt Disney
Classics
Collection    
license, and the Gregg Gift and Dartington businesses.
Additionally, the operating loss was increased by ERP-related
charges of approximately $11.0 million, higher inventory
valuation charges of approximately $2.0 million, and
increased SG&A as described above, offset by the gain on the
sale of the EGV building. The U.S. 2004 operating loss of
$23.5 million decreased $28.1 million below the income
level in 2003 of $4.6 million. International 2004 operating
income of $6.5 million reflected a $3.9 million
decrease, or 37% below 2003 operating income of
$10.3 million.

Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net 

Interest expense in 2004 of $1.1 million increased
$0.4 million, or 46%, above the 2003 level of
$0.8 million. The increase primarily was due to higher
borrowings and higher interest rates. Interest income in 2004 of
$0.4 million decreased $0.1 million, or 25%, from the
2003 level of $0.5 million. The decrease primarily was due
to lower cash balances available for investments during 2004.
Other expense in 2004 was $0.1 million compared to an
expense of $0.3 million in 2003.

39

Table of Contents   

Provision for Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 

For 2004, income tax expense was $27.4 million, comprised
of domestic tax expense of $23.3 million and foreign tax
expense of $4.1 million related to operations. The domestic
tax expense was comprised principally of a benefit from an NOL
of $12.9 million and offset by an $18.6 million
expense related to the establishment of a valuation allowance to
reduce net deferred tax assets to their expected realizable
amount and by a $17.4 million expense related to the
recording of a deferred liability on unremitted earnings of
certain foreign subsidiaries because those entities were
expected to become guarantors of the parent s debt in 2005.
For 2003, the net tax benefit was $2.9 million, comprised
of a domestic tax benefit of $7.9 million and foreign tax
expense of $5.0 million on operations. The domestic benefit
included the impact of the reversal of $6.9 million of
income tax accruals no longer required due to the expiration of
various statutes of limitations.

Effective as of December 31, 2004, Enesco was no longer
able to rely upon the indefinite reversal criteria of the
Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 23 with
respect to the reinvested earnings of certain of its foreign
subsidiaries due to the anticipated guarantee in 2005 of the
Enesco s domestic debt by those subsidiaries, resulting in
the recognition of the $17.4 million deferred tax liability
and related tax expense noted above.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, cash
generated from operations and available financing will satisfy
our expected working capital needs, capital expenditures and
other liquidity requirements associated with our existing
operations. There are no assurances, however, of our ability to
secure replacement financing of the senior revolving credit
facility, which expires January 1, 2007, or that we will
successfully negotiate more favorable covenants, obtain further
waivers of existing or future covenants if violated or maintain
sufficient loan advance rates on eligible collateral. Also, in
the course of pursuing growth opportunities, including, but not
limited to, acquisitions and alliances, Enesco may need to
negotiate additional or amend existing credit facilities. In
addition, there were no transactions, arrangements or other
relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons, as
of December 31, 2005, that are reasonably likely to
materially affect liquidity or requirements for capital
resources.

Liquid Assets 

Cash and cash equivalents on December 31, 2005 were
$12.9 million versus $14.6 million at
December 31, 2004. Cash and cash equivalents are a function
of cash flows from operating, investing and financing
activities. We historically have satisfied capital requirements
with borrowings and, in 2004, proceeds from the sale of
property, plant and equipment. Cash balances and working capital
requirements fluctuate due to operating results, shipping
cycles, accounts receivable collections, inventory management
and timing of payments, among other factors. Working capital
requirements fluctuate during the year and generally are
greatest early in the fourth quarter and lowest early in the
first quarter.

Cash Flows 

The net cash used by operating activities is a function of our
net loss, offset by non-cash expenses, such as depreciation and
the provision for deferred income taxes, as well as changes in
working capital. Net cash used in operations totaled
$4.4 million for 2005 versus $21.6 million used in
2004. Non-cash expenses were $13.3 million lower in 2005
than in the same period in 2004, primarily due to the
$24.6 million in deferred income taxes in 2004 that was
greater than the $7.7 million loss on the PMI license
termination in 2005. Non-cash expenses in 2005 also included the
write-off of the $1.1 million in goodwill associated with
the Dartington acquisition.

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, changes in
operating assets and liabilities provided $34.0 million of
cash, which was $39.3 million favorable to the same period
last year, during which $5.3 million of cash was used.
Accounts receivable decreased $27.0 million during 2005,
compared to an increase of $1.0 million for the 2004
period. The decrease in 2005 was due, in part, to lower revenues
in

40

Table of Contents   

2005 compared to 2004, as well as to sales terms more favorable
to Enesco, improved collection efforts and stricter credit
policy management.

We incurred a $7.7 million non-cash loss on the transfer of
inventory related to the PMI termination agreement in the second
quarter of 2005. In addition to the decrease in inventories due
to the transfer,  Precious
Moments    
inventories declined another $4.7 million in 2005 due to
declining purchases. Net of the decline due to  Precious
Moments    ,
inventories decreased an additional $10.6 million during
2005, primarily due to warehouse order processing efficiencies,
more efficient procurement of seasonal merchandise and other
products and an increase in inventory reserves for discontinued
product lines from implementing our Operating Improvement Plan.

The net cash used by investing activities during 2005 of
$1.5 million showed an increase of $1.8 million
compared to 2004, during which Enesco generated
$19.3 million from the sale of the EGV warehouse and used
$14.4 million for the acquisitions of Gregg Gift and
Dartington. Additionally, Enesco s property, plant and
equipment expenditures decreased from $4.6 million in 2004
to $2.3 million in 2005.

The net cash provided by financing activities in 2005 totaled
$4.9 million versus $24.2 million for 2004. The
decrease resulted primarily from a $18.1 million decline in
borrowing activities, which was made possible by better asset
management of receivables and inventories in 2005 versus 2004.
The primary financing requirements in 2005 were capital
expenditures and the funding of the cash used in operations.

Stock-based compensation expense is classified as an operating
activity in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. For 2004
and 2003, we reclassified $1.3 million and
$1.0 million, respectively of stock-based compensation
expense from investing activities to operating activities in the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Operating Improvement Plan Goals 

Enesco has specific liquidity and profitability goals built in
its Operating Improvement Plan. Enesco seeks to build a
profitable, sustainable business model focused on high margin
gift products. This operating model will target gross margins in
the range of 40% to 45% and an operating profit margin of 3% to
5% to be achieved in 2007.

Credit Facilities 

In June 2003, Enesco entered into a three-year domestic
$50.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility that
includes Enesco International (H.K.) Limited as a borrowing
subsidiary. The credit agreement contains financial and
operating covenants including restrictions on incurring
indebtedness and liens, acquisitions, selling property,
repurchasing Enesco s shares and paying dividends. In
addition, Enesco is required to satisfy fixed charge coverage
ratio and leverage ratio tests at the end of each quarter and a
minimum annual operating profit covenant.

On January 28, 2005, Enesco entered into an amendment with
its lenders to its domestic credit facility providing credit
facility commitments of $45.0 million until
February 28, 2005 and $56.0 million until
March 31, 2005. The lenders also waived the resetting of,
and compliance with, financial covenants as of December 31,
2004. Also on January 28, 2005, the term of the domestic
credit facility was shortened to end March 31, 2005.

On March 29, 2005, Enesco entered into an amendment with
its lenders to its domestic credit facility, effective
March 31, 2005, extending the term of such facility through
January 1, 2006. The credit facility commitments ranged
from $50 million to $70 million, based on
Enesco s seasonal borrowing needs. The amendment also set
certain financial covenants for 2005. In the event that the
outstanding loans under the domestic credit facility were not
repaid in full (i) by May 16, 2005, a fee in the
amount of $700,000 became payable; (ii) by June 30,
2005, another fee of $700,000 became payable; and
(iii) with proceeds provided by lenders that include Fleet
National Bank ( Fleet ) or an affiliate of Fleet a fee
of $1,750,000 became payable.

41

Table of Contents   

Under our current credit facility, we were required to pay a
total of $1.4 million in penalty fees because we did not
close a replacement credit facility during the second quarter of
2005.

On June 10, 2005, we notified Fleet as agent under our
existing U.S. credit facility with Fleet and LaSalle Bank
N.A., that we were not in compliance with our minimum EBITDA
covenant as of April 30, 2005, which was predominantly due
to non-cash accruals related to the timing of the execution of
Enesco s agreement with PMI, as discussed in Note 9 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. On June 28,
2005, we obtained a waiver of our minimum EBITDA covenant
default for April and May 2005, and a waiver of compliance with
this covenant through July 31, 2005. We also advised Fleet
of the need to renegotiate our financial covenants for
additional months during the term of our existing credit
facility primarily because of lower projected sales and lower
gross margins during the same period.

On July 7, 2005, we entered into an eighth amendment to our
current U.S. credit facility. The eighth amendment added
accounts receivable and inventory of N.C. Cameron &
Sons Limited, our Canadian subsidiary, to the borrowing base
under the credit facility and reduced the advance rate on
inventory from 50% to 33% effective July 31, 2005. The fee
of $1.75 million payable on the termination of the
commitment under the credit facility was eliminated.

As of August 31, 2005, we entered into a ninth amendment to
our current U.S. credit facility. The ninth amendment reset
Enesco s minimum EBITDA and capital expenditure covenants
through the facility termination date, December 31, 2005,
based on our reforecast and long-term partnership with Bank of
America, as successor to Fleet, and LaSalle Bank. The ninth
amendment also added the accounts receivable and inventories of
Enesco Limited, Enesco Holdings Limited and Bilston &
Battersea Enamels Limited, and the accounts receivable of Enesco
International (H.K.) Limited as eligible collateral to the
borrowing base under the current credit facility. The ninth
amendment also increased the current credit facility size to
$75.0 million, rather than a variable size of
$50.0 million to $70.0 million.

On December 14, 2005, Enesco signed a commitment letter
with LaSalle Business Credit, LLC to arrange a new
$75 million senior secured credit facility. If entered
into, the new credit facility with LaSalle will have a term of
five years and will replace our existing credit facility with
Bank of America, as successor to Fleet National Bank, and
LaSalle Bank. As the Administrative Agent, LaSalle expects to
form a syndicate of financial institutions to participate in the
new credit facility. The commitment letter contains a number of
conditions that must be satisfied in order for the facility to
be closed, including:

Enesco having a minimum borrowing availability of at least
    $10 million at the time of closing, 

the lender s completion of its final due diligence with
    respect to Enesco and its subsidiaries, 

the negotiation and execution of a definitive credit agreement, 

there being no material adverse change in our business, assets,
    liabilities, properties, condition (financial or otherwise),
    results of operations or prospects of Enesco and its
    subsidiaries since December 31, 2004, there being no
    material disruption or material adverse change in financial,
    banking or capital markets generally affecting credit
    facilities, and 

various appraisals, as well as other standard and customary
    conditions. 

Under the letter, the commitment was to close on the new credit
facility on or before January 31, 2006. On January 31,
2006, Enesco received a modification to its commitment letter
from LaSalle Business Credit, LLC, (LaSalle) extending the
expiration date from January 31, 2006 to February 28,
2006. On February 28, 2006, Enesco received a modification
to its commitment letter from LaSalle extending the expiration
date from February 28, 2006 to March 31, 2006. On
March 31, 2006, Enesco received a modification to its
commitment letter from LaSalle extending the expiration date
from March 31, 2006 to April 30, 2006.

On December 21, 2005, Enesco entered into a tenth amendment
to its existing U.S. credit facility extending the facility
termination date from December 31, 2005 to January 1,
2007. The tenth amendment

42

Table of Contents   

provides that, unless the outstanding loans and letters of
credit under the existing U.S. credit facility are paid in
full prior to the following dates, the respective fees will
become payable:

The amendment also provides for a monthly fee beginning
January 1, 2006 through May 1, 2006 in the amount of
0.10% of the highest amount of loans that were outstanding
during the preceding month. This fee will increase to 0.20%
beginning June 1, 2006 through January 1, 2007. The
amendment establishes cumulative minimum consolidated EBITDA
requirements and cumulative maximum capital expenditure
limitations, which are each measured monthly during 2006. Enesco
was required to pay the January 1, February 1, and
March 1, 2006 bank penalty fees totaling $475,000. Enesco
expects to pay the April 1, 2006 penalty fee of $275,000.

During the first quarter, Enesco notified Bank of America, as
agent under our existing U.S. credit facility, of its
anticipated need to renegotiate its cumulative minimum EBITDA
covenants for each of the months of 2006 primarily due to slower
revenue shipments in the U.S. and the U.K.

On March 31, 2006, we entered into an eleventh amendment to
our existing U.S. credit facility. This amendment reset
Enesco s 2006 cumulative minimum monthly EBITDA covenants
effective January 30, 2006, based on our reforecast and
reduced the credit facility commitments from $75.0 million
to $70.0 million effective between the eleventh amendment
date and January 1, 2007. In addition, unless the
outstanding loans and letters of credits under the existing U.S.
credit facility are paid in full, the eleventh amendment
accelerates by one month the fees per the tenth amendment which
were to be due May 1, 2006 and June 1, 2006. The total
fee payable April 1, 2006 is $1,025,000 and, unless the
outstanding loans and letters of credit are paid in full prior
to May 1, 2006, the fee payable May 1, 2006 is
$750,000. The monthly fee of 0.10% of the highest loan amount
outstanding during the preceding month will increase to 0.20% on
May 1, 2006, rather than June 1, 2006 as per the tenth
amendment, and will continue until the facility termination date.

Enesco is seeking replacement financing to pay off the existing
U.S. credit facility. There are no assurances that we will
secure replacement financing of the U.S. senior revolving
credit facility, which expires on January 1, 2007. Under a
contemplated replacement facility, Enesco will be the borrower,
and Enesco and our material domestic and foreign subsidiaries
likely will be guarantors. In connection with closing on a
replacement senior credit facility, we may need to obtain
additional financing secured by, among other things, certain
foreign inventory and receivable collateral from Canada, Hong
Kong and the U.K., as well as certain real estate assets, in
order to satisfy minimum excess availability conditions.
Moreover, we anticipate that the proposed replacement facility
will contain standard terms and conditions, and financial and
other covenants including, without limitation, restrictions on
incurring indebtedness and liens, acquisitions, change of
control, change of management, selling property, repurchasing
our shares and paying dividends.

At December 31, 2005, Enesco had total lines of credit
providing for maximum borrowings of $78.8 million,
$75.0 million was available under our current
U.S. credit facility, and $3.8 million under
international facilities. Actual borrowings of
$30.8 million and letters of credit and a customs bond
totaling $4.2 million were outstanding at December 31,
2005. The net available borrowing capacity under our current
U.S. credit facility based on eligible collateral as of
December 31, 2005 was $13.2 million. As of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, Enesco had $30.8 million
and $26.4 million, respectively of interest bearing debt.

Enesco has various non-qualified supplemental retirement plans.
Benefits under these plans are paid from Enesco s assets.
During 2005 and 2004, $0.1 million and $0.1 million,
respectively, were paid to fund benefits. Enesco has established
grantor trusts to hold assets for some of these non-qualified
plans. The

43

Table of Contents   

assets are subject to the claims of creditors and therefore, are
not considered plan assets and are excluded from retirement plan
computations.

Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar versus
international currencies affect the U.S. dollar translation
value of international currency denominated balance sheet items.
The changes in the balance sheet dollar values due to
international currency translation fluctuations are recorded as
a component of shareholders  equity under accumulated other
comprehensive income.

Contractual Obligations 

A summary of significant contractual obligations are as follows:

(1)  
     
    Future variable rate interest payments have been excluded under
    our short-term debt agreements. 

Enesco s credit agreement and some of its real estate
leases and license agreements include provisions that in the
event of default the creditor may, in certain circumstances,
accelerate the amount owed.

Sale and Leaseback 

On December 10, 2004, Enesco sold its EGV property,
warehouse and distribution facility and certain machinery and
equipment for approximately $19.8 million and agreed to a
five-year leaseback of the facility. The assets sold had a net
book value of $6.6 million at the date of sale, resulting
in the recognition of a $4.0 million gain on the sale in
December 2004. An additional $8.6 million gain was
deferred, to be recognized over the five-year term of the lease.
In December 2005, we notified the lessor of this facility that
we would terminate the lease at December 31, 2006 in
compliance with the early termination clause provided for in the
lease agreement. The deferred gain, which totaled
$6.9 million at December 1, 2005, will be recognized
on a monthly basis equal to the facility rent expense through
November 2006, with the resulting balance recognized in
December 2006.

Market Risk 

Concentrations of risk for Enesco exist in revenue from major
product lines, foreign sources of inventory, market and
geographic areas and trade receivables. The majority of product
revenues are items produced using licensed rights from third
parties. The two largest licensed lines,  Precious
Moments    
and  Heartwood
Creek   tm  
by Jim Shore represented $72.1 million, or 29%, of total
revenues for 2005, $91.3 million, or 34%, of total revenues
for 2004, and $95.1 million, or 37%, of total revenues for
2003. A negotiated termination of the  Precious
Moments    
license was reached and became effective during 2005 (see
Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in
this Form  10-K). 
Extended credit terms are offered to customers. Enesco
continually monitors and manages the risks associated with all
these activities.

Enesco operates globally with various manufacturing and
distribution facilities and product sourcing locations around
the world. Enesco may reduce its exposure to fluctuations in
interest rates and foreign

44

Table of Contents   

exchange rates by creating offsetting positions through the use
of derivative financial instruments. Enesco does not use
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative
purposes. Enesco regularly monitors foreign currency exposures
and ensures that the hedge contract amounts do not exceed the
amounts of the underlying exposures.

Enesco s current hedging activity is limited to foreign
currency purchases and intercompany foreign currency
transactions. The purpose of Enesco s foreign currency
hedging activities is to protect Enesco from the risk that the
eventual settlement of foreign currency transactions will be
affected adversely by changes in exchange rates. Enesco hedges
these exposures by entering into various foreign exchange
forward contracts. Under SFAS 133,  Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  the
instruments are carried at fair value on the balance sheet as a
component of other current assets or other current liabilities.
Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts
that meet the applicable hedging criteria of SFAS 133 are
recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income and reclassified into earnings in the same period during
which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Changes in the
fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts that do not
meet the applicable hedging criteria of SFAS 133 are
recorded currently in income as cost of revenues or foreign
exchange gain or loss, as applicable. Hedging activities did not
have a material impact on results of operations or financial
condition during 2005.

At the present time, Enesco hedges only those currency exposures
associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies and periodically will hedge anticipated
foreign currency cash flows. The hedging activity undertaken by
Enesco is intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations
on certain foreign currency transactions.

The table below details our outstanding currency instruments as
of December 31, 2005, all of which have scheduled maturity
dates before October 17, 2006:

As of December 31, 2005, Enesco had a total of
$30.8 million of interest bearing debt outstanding, all in
the U.S., with a floating interest rate of 6.27%, compared to an
aggregate debt balance of $26.4 million with a floating
interest rate of approximately 4.0% at December 31, 2004.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In November 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 151,
 Inventory Costs,  which amended the guidance in Accounting
Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 43 to clarify the
accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense,
freight handling costs and wasted material (spoilage). It also
requires that the allocation of fixed production overhead to the
cost of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the
production facilities. The standard is effective for inventory
costs incurred by Enesco beginning January 1, 2006. We do
not anticipate that the implementation of FAS No. 151
will have a significant impact on the results of our operations.

In December 2004, FASB revised FASB Statement No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.  This Statement
supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees,  and its related implementation
guidance. This Statement establishes standards for the
accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its
equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses
transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange
for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the
entity s equity instruments or that may be settled by the
issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement focuses
primarily on accounting for transactions in which an entity
obtains employee services in share-based payment transactions.
This Statement does not change the accounting guidance for
share-based payment transactions with parties other than
employees provided in Statement 123 as originally issued
and EITF Issue No. 96-18,  Accounting for Equity
Instruments That Are Issued to Other Than Employees for
Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling, Goods or Services.
 This

45

Table of Contents   

Statement does not address the accounting for employee share
ownership plans, which are subject to AICPA Statement of
Position 93-6,  Employers  Accounting for Employee Stock
Ownership Plans.  This Statement is effective as of the
beginning of the first annual reporting period that begins after
June 15, 2005. Enesco is required to adopt this Statement
for the quarter beginning January 1, 2006. This revised
Statement will be applicable for Enesco s yearly service
awards granted after the required effective date and modified,
repurchased or cancelled after that date. The impact on our
Consolidated Statement of Operations for 2006 for options
granted prior to the adoption of FAS 123 is not anticipated
to be significant due to the acceleration of vesting on all
previous options granted at a price greater than the market
price in November 2005.

In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47,
 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, 
which provides additional guidance on conditional asset
retirement obligations under FAS No. 143,
 Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.  This
standard is effective for fiscal years ended after
December 15, 2005. The implementation of
FAS No. 143 did not have a significant impact on the
results of our operations in 2005.

In May 2005, the FASB issued FAS No. 154, which
addresses the accounting and reporting for changes in accounting
principles. FAS No. 154 replaces APB Opinion
No. 20. APB Opinion No. 20 allowed a change in
accounting principle to be accounted for generally as a
cumulative effect adjustment in the current year s
financial statements. FAS No. 154 states that the
change be reported retrospectively, and requires the following:

The cumulative effect of the change to the new accounting
    principle on periods prior to those presented shall be reflected
    in the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities as of the
    beginning of the first period presented. 

An offsetting adjustment, if any, shall be made to the opening
    balance of retained earnings (or other appropriate components of
    equity or net assets in the statement of financial position) for
    that period. 

Financial statements for each individual prior period presented
    shall be adjusted to reflect the period-specific effects of
    applying the new accounting principle. 

FAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes made
in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. This
Statement will be applicable for Enesco beginning in 2006.

Item 7A.      Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Interest Rate Risk 

Enesco s exposure to market risk for changes in interest
rates relates primarily to its domestic credit facility. The
outstanding balance under its credit facility accrues interest
at a variable rate. As of December 31, 2005, Enesco had a
total of $30.8 million of interest bearing debt
outstanding, all in the U.S., with a floating interest rate of
approximately 6.27% compared to an aggregate debt balance of
$26.4 million with a floating interest rate of
approximately 4% at December 31, 2004. If amounts
outstanding under Enesco s credit facility remained at this
year-end level for an entire year and the variable interest rate
increased or decreased by 1%, the annual interest expense or
savings, respectively, would be approximately $0.3 million.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 

Enesco operates globally with various manufacturing and
distribution facilities and product sourcing locations around
the world. Enesco may reduce its exposure to fluctuations in
interest rates and foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting
positions through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Enesco does not use derivative financial instruments for trading
or speculative purposes. Enesco regularly monitors foreign
currency exposures and ensures that the hedge contract amounts
do not exceed the amounts of the underlying exposures.

46

Table of Contents   

Enesco s current hedging activity is limited to foreign
currency purchases and intercompany foreign currency
transactions. The purpose of Enesco s foreign currency
hedging activities is to protect Enesco from the risk that the
eventual settlement of foreign currency transactions will be
adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. Enesco hedges
these exposures by entering into various foreign exchange
forward contracts. Under SFAS 133, Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the instruments
are carried at fair value in the balance sheet as a component of
other current assets or other current liabilities. Changes in
the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts that meet
the applicable hedging criteria of SFAS 133 are recorded as
a component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into
earnings in the same period during which the hedged transaction
affects earnings. Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange
forward contracts that do not meet the applicable hedging
criteria of SFAS 133 are recorded currently in income as
cost of revenues or foreign exchange gain or loss, as
applicable. Hedging activities did not have a material impact on
results of operations or financial condition during 2005.

The table below details our outstanding currency instruments as
of December 31, 2005, all of which have scheduled maturity
dates before October 17, 2006:

47

Table of Contents   

Item 8.  
     
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

Enesco Group, Inc. 

48

Table of Contents   

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.

49

Table of Contents   

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 

Consolidated Statements of Operations 

For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.

50

Table of Contents   

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity and
Comprehensive Income (Loss) 

For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.

51

Table of Contents   

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.

52

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

Note 1.  
     
     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the
accounts of Enesco Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, all of
which are wholly owned ( Enesco ,  we  or
 our ). Enesco, which operates in a single industry
segment, designs, manufactures and markets a wide variety of
licensed and proprietary branded giftware and home and garden
d cor products to retailers in the U.S., Canada and Europe.
All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated
in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the U.S. requires the use of
management estimates. Actual results could differ from those
estimates. Certain reclassifications were made in the 2004 and
2003 financial statements to conform to the 2005 presentation,
including reclassifying changes in stock-based compensation in
our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows from financing
activities to operating activities. We also reclassified bank
fees and credit card fees in our Consolidated Statements of
Operations from other expense to selling, general and
administrative expenses. These reclassifications had a negative
effect of $1.3 million and $1.0 million on our
operating income (loss) for the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2003, respectively, but had no effect on the previously
reported net income (loss) for these periods. Lastly, we
reclassified certain employee benefit obligations in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets from accrued expenses  
other to accrued expenses   payroll and commissions.

Assets and liabilities of Enesco s foreign subsidiaries are
translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate on the
balance sheet date, while items in the statements of operations
are translated at average exchange rates effective during the
year. Translation gains and losses are reported as a component
of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders 
equity. Transaction gains and losses are reported in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.

The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents and notes and
loans payable approximate fair value. Enesco considers all
highly liquid securities, including certificates of deposit with
maturities of three months or less when purchased, to be cash
equivalents.

Advertising costs are expensed in the year the publication is
issued. Advertising expense was $0.6 million in 2005,
$1.6 million in 2004 and $0.7 million in 2003.

Revenue from the sales of products is recognized when title and
risk of loss transfer to the customer, which generally occurs
when merchandise is released to the transportation company. A
provision for anticipated merchandise returns and allowances is
recorded at the time of sale based upon historical experience.
Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling are
included in revenue. License, royalty and service fees are
recognized as revenue when earned.

The individual annual membership fees related to club sales are
recorded as revenue as the membership entitles the member to
receive a club kit, which includes a collectible figurine, a
carrying case and related documentation, and also entitles the
member to receive a quarterly newsletter. The newsletters are
essentially marketing materials that contain information
regarding products, artists and member stories, as well as
special offers and new product offerings. Membership fees are
not refundable. Because the membership fee is paid in exchange
for products delivered and represents the culmination of the
earnings process, revenue is recognized at the time the club kit
is shipped to the member. Membership also entitles the
participant to purchase, for a limited time, certain exclusive
items offered throughout the year; revenue from sales of these
items is recognized upon shipment of each item.

Concentrations of risk for Enesco exist in revenue from major
product lines, foreign sources of inventory, market and
geographic areas and trade receivables. The majority of product
revenues are derived from items produced using licensed rights
from third parties. The two largest licensed lines,  Precious
Moments    
and  Heartwood
Creek   tm   
by Jim Shore  represented approximately $72.1 million,
or 29%, of total revenues for 2005, $91.3 million or 34% of
total revenues for 2004 and $95.1 million, or 37%, of total
revenues for 2003. The U.S. license for  Precious
Moments    
was terminated during 2005 (see Note 9).

53

Table of Contents   

Extended credit terms are offered to customers. Enesco
continually monitors and manages the risks associated with all
these activities.

Accounts receivable are reported net of allowances for
uncollectible accounts, customer rebates, and returns and
allowances, which totaled $8.8 million at December 31,
2005, and $6.5 million at December 31, 2004.

We assess the recoverability of significant tangible and
intangible assets, including goodwill, under the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142   
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  and
SFAS No. 144    Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  For goodwill,
we perform an impairment assessment annually or more frequently
if impairment indicators arise. Based on our annual impairment
analysis, we concluded that the goodwill associated with the
2004 acquisition of Dartington was impaired as of
December 31, 2005. The total $1.1 million of goodwill
attributable to Dartington was written off in December 2005. For
property, plant and equipment, we evaluate the recoverability of
these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be
recoverable. Due to ongoing operating losses from the
U.S. business, excluding Gregg Gift, an assessment of the
carrying amount of U.S. long-lived assets was again
completed as of December 2005 in accordance with
SFAS No. 144. Based on the positive undiscounted cash
flows expected to be generated from our long-lived assets, we
concluded that our long-lived assets were not impaired as of
December 31, 2005.

In December 2004, we determined that the Enterprise Resource
Planning (ERP) system would be stabilized by using the core
components of our former legacy software system. The plan was to
update certain modules of the legacy software to provide
advanced features and capabilities required by the business. We
incurred accelerated depreciation charges related to the ERP
system of $0.8 million in December 2004. During the second
quarter of 2005, we successfully migrated from the ERP system at
our Elk Grove Village, Illinois (EGV) distribution center
to an upgraded version of our legacy information system. Late in
the second quarter, we stabilized the remaining portions of our
PeopleSoft systems that relate to order management and financial
reporting. Since we currently are processing customer orders and
preparing financial statements using the PeopleSoft system, and
intend to continue to do so, we have revised our estimate of the
remaining useful life of the portion of the asset value that
pertains to these two modules. The remaining net book value of
our PeopleSoft system is $1.1 million, as of
December 31, 2005. All costs associated with the
distribution center ERP system have been fully depreciated as of
the end of the second quarter of 2005. Total accelerated
depreciation for 2005 amounted to $3.7 million, all of
which was recorded in the first half of 2005.

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost
components include labor, overhead, materials, freight and duty
costs. We value all inventories utilizing the
 first-in,  first-out
method. We record inventory at the date of taking title, which
at certain times during the year results in significant
in-transit quantities, as inventory is sourced primarily from
China and Thailand.

The major classes of inventories were as follows:

Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives of the
assets utilizing the straight-line and declining balance
methods. The methods of depreciation for financial statement and
income tax purposes differ in some circumstances, resulting in
deferred income taxes.

54

Table of Contents   

The estimated useful lives of the various classes of assets are
as follows:

Range in    

Years    

Land improvements

10 

Buildings and improvements

3   25 

Machinery and equipment

5   10 

Office furniture and equipment

3   10 

Transportation equipment

3    8 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
future tax consequences attributable to the differences between
financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and
liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets
are also recognized for the tax effects attributable to the
carryforward of net operating losses (NOLs). Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect
on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates
is recognized through an adjustment of the tax provision in the
period that includes the enactment date. Enesco considers future
taxable income and ongoing tax strategies in assessing the need
for a valuation allowance in relation to deferred tax assets.
Enesco records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax
assets to a level where they are more likely than not to be
realized based upon these considerations.

Accruals have been established for taxes payable and potential
tax assessments. The accruals are included in current income
taxes payable since it is uncertain as to when assessments may
be made and taxes may be paid. Enesco has filed and continues to
file tax returns with a number of taxing authorities worldwide.
We believe such filings have been and are in compliance with
applicable laws, regulations and interpretations. Positions
taken are subject to challenge by the taxing authorities, often
for an extended number of years after the filing dates. To the
extent accruals differ from assessments, when the open tax years
are closed or the accruals are otherwise deemed unnecessary at a
point in time, the accruals are adjusted through the provision
for income taxes.

Enesco operates globally with various manufacturing and
distribution facilities and product sourcing locations around
the world. Enesco may reduce its exposure to fluctuations in
interest rates and foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting
positions through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Enesco does not use derivative financial instruments for trading
or speculative purposes. Enesco regularly monitors foreign
currency exposures and ensures that the hedge contract amounts
do not exceed the amounts of the underlying exposures.

Enesco s current hedging activity is limited to foreign
currency purchases and intercompany foreign currency
transactions. The purpose of Enesco s foreign currency
hedging activities is to protect Enesco from the risk that the
eventual settlement of foreign currency transactions will be
adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. Enesco hedges
these exposures by entering into various foreign exchange
forward contracts. Under SFAS 133, Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the instruments
are carried at fair value in the balance sheet as a component of
other current assets or other current liabilities. Changes in
the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts that meet
the applicable hedging criteria of SFAS 133 are recorded as
a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and
reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the
hedged transaction affects earnings. Changes in the fair value
of foreign exchange forward contracts that do not meet the
applicable hedging criteria of SFAS 133 are recorded
currently in income as cost of revenues or foreign exchange gain
or loss, as applicable. Hedging activities did not have a
material impact on results of operations or financial condition
during 2005.

Basic earnings (loss) per common share is based on the average
number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted
earnings per common share assumes, in addition to the above, the
dilutive effect of common share equivalents during the year.
Common share equivalents represent dilutive

55

Table of Contents   

stock options and warrants using the treasury stock method. The
number of shares used in the earnings per common share
computation for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows:

Additional options to purchase 2.2 million,
1.3 million and 1.0 million shares were outstanding at
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, but were
not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share
because the options  exercise price was greater than the
average market price of the common share.

At December 31, 2005, we had four stock-based compensation
(fixed options) plans, not including two plans with options that
have fully expired. We account for these plans under the
recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles
Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees,  and related interpretations. No
stock-based compensation plan cost is reflected in net income
(loss), as each option granted under those plans had an exercise
price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock
on the date of grant. The following table illustrates the effect
on net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per common share if
Enesco had applied the fair value recognition provisions of
SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  to stock-based compensation plans:

Note 2.  
     
     Notes and Loans Payable  

Notes and loans payable and weighted-average interest rates at
December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

56

Table of Contents   

At December 31, 2005, Enesco had total lines of credit
providing for maximum borrowings of $78.8 million, of which
$75.0 million was available under our current
U.S. credit facility. Actual borrowings of
$30.8 million and letters of credit and a customs bond
totaling $4.2 million were outstanding at December 31,
2005. The net available borrowing capacity under our current
U.S. credit facility based on eligible collateral as of
December 31, 2005 was $13.2 million. As of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, Enesco had $30.8 million
and $26.4 million, respectively of interest bearing debt.

Total interest paid under committed bank lines was
$1.9 million in 2005, $0.7 million in 2004,
$0.4 million in 2003.

In June 2003, Enesco entered into a three-year domestic
$50.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility that
includes Enesco International (H.K.) Limited as a borrowing
subsidiary. The credit agreement contains financial and
operating covenants including restrictions on incurring
indebtedness and liens, acquisitions, selling property,
repurchasing Enesco s shares and paying dividends. In
addition, Enesco was required to satisfy fixed charge coverage
ratio and leverage ratio tests at the end of the second, third
and fourth quarters and a minimum annual operating profit
covenant.

In March 2004, Enesco s domestic $50.0 million credit
facility was amended to add term notes totaling
$7.7 million for the purpose of funding the acquisition of
Gregg Gift. At the same time, Gregg Gift was added as a
borrowing subsidiary and certain financial covenants were
modified.

In August 2004, Enesco negotiated a $10.0 million temporary
increase through December 31, 2004 to its
$57.7 million credit facility (to a total of
$67.7 million) in order to meet anticipated seasonal
requirements for working capital. Following December 31,
2004, the credit facility reverted to $57.7 million.

In November 2004, Enesco and its lenders agreed upon revised
financial covenants for the two months ended December 31,
2004 and thereafter. Also in November 2004, Enesco entered into
an amendment to its credit facility providing a security
interest in certain assets to its lenders.

On December 10, 2004, Enesco sold its EGV warehouse and
distribution facility for approximately $20 million. The
net proceeds from the sale of $17.6 million were first used
to pay the outstanding balance ($6.7 million) of the
$7.7 million term loan. The balance of the net proceeds,
$10.9 million, was used to reduce the outstanding balance
of the revolving portion of the credit facility with a
concurrent reduction to the revolving loan commitments. Also on
December 10, 2004, Enesco s lenders extended the time
period to January 31, 2005 for Enesco and its lenders to
agree on revised financial covenants for the fiscal period
ending December 31, 2004 and thereafter.

On January 28, 2005, Enesco entered into an amendment with
its lenders to its domestic credit facility providing credit
facility commitments of $45.0 million until
February 28, 2005 and $56.0 million until
March 31, 2005. The lenders also waived the resetting of,
and compliance with, financial covenants as of December 31,
2004. Also on January 28, 2005, the term of the domestic
credit facility was shortened to end March 31, 2005.

On March 28, 2005, Enesco signed a commitment letter with
Fleet Capital Corporation, operating as Bank of America Business
Credit (BABC), for BABC to fully underwrite a $100 million
global senior revolving credit facility with a five-year term.
The commitment letter with BABC expired on April 30, 2005.

On March 29, 2005, Enesco entered into an amendment with
the lenders to its domestic credit facility, effective
March 31, 2005, extending the term of such facility through
January 1, 2006. The credit facility commitments ranged
from $50 million to $70 million, based on
Enesco s seasonal borrowing needs. The amendment also set
certain financial covenants for 2005. In the event that the
outstanding loans under the domestic credit facility were not
repaid in full: (i) by May 16, 2005, a fee in the
amount of $700,000 became payable, (ii) by June 30,
2005, another fee of $700,000 became payable, and
(iii) with proceeds provided by lenders that include Fleet
National Bank (Fleet) or an affiliate of Fleet National Bank, a
fee of $1,750,000 became payable.

57

Table of Contents   

Under our current credit facility, we were required to pay a
total of $1.4 million in penalty fees because we did not
close a replacement credit facility during the second quarter of
2005.

On June 10, 2005, we notified Fleet, as agent under our
existing U.S. credit facility with Fleet and LaSalle Bank
N.A., that we were not in compliance with our minimum EBITDA
covenant as of April 30, 2005, which was due predominantly
to non-cash accruals related to the timing of the execution of
Enesco s agreement with Precious Moments, Inc. (PMI), as
discussed in Note 9. On June 28, 2005, we obtained a
waiver of our minimum EBITDA covenant default for April and May
2005, and a waiver of compliance with this covenant through
July 31, 2005. We also advised Fleet of the need to
renegotiate our financial covenants for additional months during
the term of our existing credit facility primarily because of
lower projected sales and lower gross margins during the same
period.

On July 7, 2005, we entered into an eighth amendment to our
current U.S. credit facility. The eighth amendment added
accounts receivable and inventory of N.C. Cameron &
Sons Limited, our Canadian subsidiary, to the borrowing base
under the credit facility and reduced the advance rate on
inventory from 50% to 33% effective July 31, 2005. The fee
of $1.75 million payable on the termination of the
commitment under the credit facility was eliminated.

As of August 31, 2005, we entered into a ninth amendment to
our current U.S. credit facility. The ninth amendment reset
our minimum EBITDA and capital expenditure covenants through the
facility termination date, December 31, 2005, based on our
reforecast and long-term partnership with Bank of America, as
successor to Fleet and LaSalle Bank. The ninth amendment also
added the accounts receivable and inventories of Enesco Limited,
Enesco Holdings Limited and Bilston & Battersea Enamels
Limited, and the accounts receivable of Enesco International
(H.K.) Limited as eligible collateral to the borrowing base
under the current credit facility. The ninth amendment also
increased the current credit facility size to
$75.0 million, rather than a variable size of
$50.0 million to $70.0 million.

On December 14, 2005, Enesco signed a commitment letter
with LaSalle Business Credit, LLC (LaSalle) to arrange a new
$75 million senior secured credit facility. If entered
into, the new credit facility with LaSalle will have a term of
five years and will replace the Enesco s existing credit
facility with Bank of America, as successor to Fleet Bank and
LaSalle Bank. As the administrative agent, LaSalle expects to
form a syndicate of financial institutions to participate in the
new credit facility. The commitment letter contains a number of
conditions that must be satisfied in order for the facility to
be closed, including: Enesco having a minimum borrowing
availability of at least $10 million at the time of
closing; the lender s completion of its final due diligence
with respect to Enesco and its subsidiaries; the negotiation and
execution of a definitive credit agreement; there being no
material adverse change in Enesco s business, assets,
liabilities, properties, condition (financial or otherwise)
results of operations or prospects of Enesco and its
subsidiaries since December 31, 2004; there being no
material disruption or material adverse change in financial,
banking or capital markets generally affecting credit
facilities; and various appraisals, as well as other standard
and customary conditions. Under the commitment letter, the new
credit facility was to close on or before January 31, 2006.
On January 31, 2006, Enesco received a modification to its
commitment letter from LaSalle, extending the expiration date
from January 31, 2006 to February 28, 2006. On
February 28, 2006, Enesco received a modification to its
commitment letter from LaSalle, extending the expiration date
from February 28, 2006 to March 31, 2006. On
March 31, 2006 Enesco received a modification to its
commitment letter from LaSalle, extending the expiration date
from March 31, 2006 to April 30, 2006.

On December 21, 2005, Enesco entered into a tenth amendment
to its existing U.S. credit facility extending the facility
termination date from December 31, 2005 to January 1,
2007. The tenth amendment provides that, unless the outstanding
loans and letters of credit under the existing U.S. credit
facility are paid in full prior to the following dates, the
respective fees will become payable: 1) by January 1,
2006, $75,000; 2) by February 1, 2006, $150,000;
3) by March 1, 2006, $250,000; 4) by
April 1, 2006, $275,000; 5) by May 1, 2006,
$750,000; and 6) by June 1, 2006; $750,000. The
amendment also provides for a monthly fee beginning
January 1, 2006 through May 1, 2006 in the amount of
0.10% of the highest amount of loans that were outstanding
during the preceding month. This fee will increase to 0.20%

58

Table of Contents   

beginning June 1, 2006 through January 1, 2007. The
amendment establishes cumulative minimum consolidated EBITDA
requirements and cumulative maximum capital expenditure
limitations, which are each measured monthly during 2006. Enesco
has paid the January 1, February 1, and March 1,
2006 bank penalty fees totaling $475,000.

During the first quarter, Enesco notified Bank of America, as
agent under our existing U.S. credit facility of its
anticipated need to renegotiate its cumulative minimum EBITDA
covenants for each of the months of 2006 primarily due to slower
revenue shipments in the US and UK.

On March 31, 2006, we entered into an eleventh amendment to
our existing U.S. credit facility. This amendment reset
Enesco s 2006 cumulative minimum monthly EBITDA covenants
effective January 30, 2006, based on our reforecast and
reduced the credit facility commitments from $75.0 million
to $70.0 million effective between the eleventh amendment
date and January 1, 2007. In addition, unless the
outstanding loans and letters of credits under the existing
U.S. credit facility are paid in full, the eleventh
amendment accelerated by one month the fees per the tenth
amendment which were to be due May 1, 2006 and June 1,
2006. The total fee payable April 1, 2006 is $1,025,000
and, unless the outstanding loans and letters of credit are paid
in full prior to May 1, 2006, the fee payable May 1,
2006 is $750,000. The monthly fee of 0.10% of the highest loan
amount outstanding during the preceding month will increase to
0.20% on May 1, 2006, rather than June 1, 2006 as per
the tenth amendment, and continue until the facility termination
date.

Subject to our ability to either extend our existing credit
facility and/or secure replacement financing by January 1,
2007, we believe that our current cash and cash equivalents,
cash generated from operations and available financing will
satisfy our expected working capital needs, capital expenditures
and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing
operations. There are no assurances, however, of our ability to
secure replacement financing of the senior revolving credit
facility, which expires January 1, 2007, or that we will
successfully negotiate more favorable covenants, obtain waivers
of existing or future covenants if violated, or maintain
sufficient loan advance rates on eligible collateral.

Note 3.  
     
     Employee Benefit Plans  

Long-term liabilities for post-retirement benefits at
December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

Enesco has established grantor trusts to fund its non-qualified
supplemental retirement plans. The trusts are irrevocable and
the assets contributed are subject to the claims of creditors.
The market value of the assets in the trusts totaled
$0.3 million at December 31, 2005, and
$1.6 million at December 31, 2004. The year over year
decline in these assets is primarily due to employee withdrawals
upon their termination. These assets are included in other
assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Enesco had sponsored a defined benefit post-retirement
healthcare and life insurance plan that had liabilities of
$1.0 million and $1.2 million as of December 31,
2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. The liability is
determined using estimated medical premium growth rates, net of
estimated employee contributions. Certain employees and
non-employee directors became eligible for the benefits under
this plan when they reached allowable retirement age while
working or serving on the Board of Directors at Enesco. Those
benefits are provided principally through premiums paid to
insurance companies. The total costs of the benefits were
accrued during the employment or service of the employee or
non-employee

59

Table of Contents   

director. All of the benefits under these plans are vested and
are either fixed dollar amounts per year or a percentage of
insurance premiums paid per year.

Net periodic post-retirement benefit expense includes the
following components:

The cost of healthcare benefits is assumed to increase at an
annual rate of 10% for periods after December 31, 2005.
Participants with fixed dollar benefits are included at actual
cost. Increasing the assumed healthcare expense annual trend
rate by one percentage point would increase the accumulated
post-retirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2005
by $33,000 and the interest cost component of the net
post-retirement benefit obligation for the year then ended by
$11,000. A discount rate of 4.5% was used in determining the
accumulated post-retirement benefit.

Additionally, certain foreign subsidiaries have established
funded profit sharing and defined contribution retirement plans.

The consolidated profit sharing and retirement plan expense
totaled $1.1 million in 2005, $1.9 million in 2004,
and $2.2 million in 2003.

Note 4.  
     
     Shareholders  Equity  

Pursuant to action by Enesco s Board of Directors (the
Board) on July 22, 1998, effective with the expiration on
September 19, 1998 of the stock purchase rights then
existing under Enesco s Stockholder Rights Plan, one new
right for each outstanding share of Enesco s common stock
was issued (a New Right) under a Renewed Rights Agreement. Each
New Right initially represents the right to purchase one share
of common stock for $125.00. The New Rights will only become
exercisable, or separately transferable, promptly after Enesco
announces that a person has acquired or tendered for 15% or
more, or promptly after a tender offer commences that could
result in ownership of 15% or more, of the common stock then
outstanding.

If the New Rights become exercisable after any person acquired
or tenders for 15% or more of the common stock then outstanding
(except through an offer for all common stock that has been
approved by the Board), each New Right not owned by that person
or related parties will enable its holder to purchase, at the
New Right s exercise price, common stock (or other
securities or assets, or a combination thereof) having double
the value of the exercise price. In the event of certain merger
or asset sale transactions with another party, similar terms
would apply to the purchase of that party s common stock.

60

Table of Contents   

The New Rights, which have no voting power, expire on
July 22, 2008, and are subject to extension. Upon approval
by the Board, the New Rights may be redeemed for $.01 each under
certain conditions.

In 1996, the shareholders approved a stock option plan
previously adopted by the Board, which provides for both
incentive and non-qualified stock options. Options for up to
1.5 million shares of common stock may be granted under the
1996 Plan. The 1996 Plan, as amended by the Board in 1998,
provides that non-qualified options for 1,500 shares of
common stock be granted annually to each non-employee Director
then serving. In 2003, the shareholders approved an amendment,
previously adopted by the Board, to the 1996 Plan that increased
the number of shares available for option grants under the 1996
Plan from 1.5 million to 3.0 million and provided for
vesting of the options over four years, at the rate of 25% of
the options per year, without the restrictions on the exercise
of vested options that was set forth in the 1996 Plan.

In 2003, the Board adopted the Amended and Restated 1996 Stock
Option Plan and renamed it the Amended and Restated 1996
Long-Term Incentive Plan. Shareholders approved the Amended and
Restated 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan in 2004. The Amended and
Restated 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan amends and restates the
1996 Stock Option Plan in its entirety. The Amended and Restated
1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan provides for the grant of
restricted shares, stock awards, performance awards and stock
appreciation rights, in addition to both incentive and
non-qualified option awards as previously provided under the
provisions of the plan. The Amended and Restated 1996 Long-Term
Incentive Plan also: (1) modifies the vesting provisions of
the option awards to provide the Compensation Committee with
more flexibility; (2) imposes restrictions on the number of
awards granted; (3) eliminates the non-employee director
options grant provisions (now contained in the Amended and
Restated 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan);
(4) modifies the acceleration and termination provisions
relating to options; and (5) provides the Compensation
Committee with discretion to make tax
 gross-up  payments,
among other matters.

Enesco also has the 1991 Stock Option Plan (the 1991 Plan),
which provides for both incentive and non-qualified stock
options, under which options for up to 2 million shares of
common stock could have been granted. No further options may be
granted under the 1991 Plan. The 1991 Plan provides for the
granting to select key employees and non-employee directors, of
options to acquire shares of common stock at a price not less
than their fair market value at the time of grant.

Other option terms are determined at the time of grant, but
normally under the 1991 Plan, options are exercisable only after
a one-year waiting period with vesting in four equal annual
installments, and expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Under the 1996 Plan, options granted prior to April 2003 become
exercisable only after a six-month waiting period and upon
Enesco s achievement of certain stock value performance
criteria at any time during the first eight years after the date
of the grant. Under the 1996 Plan, as amended by shareholder
approval in 2003, new options vest equally over four years, with
25% of the shares subject to the vesting on each of the first
four anniversary dates of the date of grant of the option, with
the options being thereafter exercisable by the optionee
regardless of the fair market value of Enesco s common
stock. On the eighth anniversary of the grant, all outstanding
options granted under the 1996 Plan will become exercisable.
Options granted under the 1996 Plan will expire 10 years
from the date of grant.

In 1998, the Board approved a special 1998 Chairman Stock Option
Plan, which provided for a one-time grant of 14,000
non-qualified stock options to Enesco s then Chairman of
the Board. The options become exercisable six months from date
of grant and expire 10 years from the date of grant. In
1997, the Board approved a President and Chief Executive Officer
Stock Option Plan which provided for special grants of
non-qualified stock options to Enesco s then Chief
Executive Officer. The 1997 grant of 100,000 options vested
fully in increments of 12,500 shares each month from
November 1997 through June 1998, and the options become
exercisable six months from the date of grant and expire
10 years from the date of grant.

At December 31, 2005, we had four stock-based compensation
(fixed options) plans, not including plans with options that
have fully expired. We account for those plans under the
recognition and

61

Table of Contents   

measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board
(APB) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees,  and related interpretations. No stock-based
compensation plan cost is reflected in net income (loss), as all
options granted under those plans had an exercise price equal to
the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of
grant. The following table illustrates the effect on net income
(loss) and earnings (loss) per common share if Enesco had
applied the fair value recognition provisions of
SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  to stock-based compensation plans:

The options granted in 2005, 2004, and 2003 were under the 1996
Plan. The fair value of each option grant in 2005, 2004, and
2003 was estimated at the time of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:

Stock option status and activity under Enesco s six
stock-based compensation plans including the 1993 options that
expired during 2005 are summarized as follows:

62

Table of Contents   

A summary of information regarding stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2005 is as follows:

An analysis of treasury stock transactions for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 is as follows:

In 1987, Enesco introduced an Investment Savings Plan for
non-union employees in accordance with Section 401(k) of
the Internal Revenue Code. In 2003, Enesco amended the Enesco
Group, Inc. Retirement Profit Sharing Plan for Union Employees
to allow union employees to make contributions to this plan in
accordance with Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue
Code. One of the features of these retirement savings plans
provides a common stock match for a portion of employee
contributions to eligible employees and allows Enesco a federal
income tax deduction equal to the market value of the issued
stock. Compensation expense for common stock issued was
$0.6 million for 2005, $0.7 million for 2004 and
$0.8 million for 2003. On October 14, 2005, Enesco
eliminated the company stock match effective December 1,
2005. Matching contributions after the effective date are made
in cash to participants  retirement accounts.

In 1998, the Board adopted the 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock
Plan. The Non-Employee Director Stock Plan allows for an annual
retainer of common stock worth $15,000 per annum valued as
of

63

Table of Contents   

the day following the annual meeting for each non-employee
director who is not the Chairman of the Board. For service as
Chairman of the Board, the Non-Employee Director Stock Plan
allows for an annual retainer of common stock worth
$37,500 per annum valued as of the day following the annual
meeting. Compensation expense for common stock issued to
non-employee directors was $0.2 million for 2005,
$0.1 million for 2004 and $0.1 million for 2003.

In 2003, the Board adopted the Amended and Restated 1999
Non-Employee Director Stock Plan. Shareholders approved the
Amended and Restated 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan in
2004. The Amended and Restated 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock
Plan amends and restates the 1999 Non-Employee Director Stock
Plan in its entirety. The Amended and Restated 1999 Non-Employee
Director Stock Plan increases the number of shares available for
grant from 100,000 to 300,000 shares of Enesco common
stock. The amendment also provides for the annual automatic
grant of 2,000 non-qualified stock options to non-employee
directors. Additional changes were made to accommodate the
inclusion of option grants, with terms such as acceleration of
vesting, adjustments in capitalization and change in control and
transferability.

On December 6, 2005, the Board accelerated the vesting of
608,658 options that would have otherwise vested over the next
four years. Options held by non-employee directors also were
included in the acceleration and the Compensation Committee
imposed a holding period that will require that all participants
not sell shares acquired through the exercise of an accelerated
option (other than shares needed to cover the exercise price and
satisfy withholding taxes) prior to the earlier of the date on
which exercise would have been permitted under the options 
original vesting terms or, if earlier, the management
participants  last day of employment or, upon the Board
participant s retirement or resignation from the Board. All
options that were accelerated as of December 6, 2005 had
exercise prices in excess of the market price of Enesco s
common stock on that date. The total compensation cost that
would have been recognized in the financial statements in future
periods, had we not accelerated the vesting of these options is
approximately $1.9 million.

On June 28, 2000, Enesco entered into a licensing agreement
with Time Warner Entertainment Company, LP. Pursuant to this
agreement, Enesco issued Time Warner a warrant to
purchase 200,000 shares of Enesco s common stock
at an exercise price of $4.375 per share (the
 warrant ). Time Warner sold the warrant in August
2003 to Highbridge International. This warrant expired
June 27, 2005. The warrant s fair value of $529,000,
which was included in capital in excess of par value, was
determined using the Black-Scholes pricing model, assuming an
expected life of five years, a dividend yield of 0%, a risk-free
interest rate of 6.789% and a volatility factor of 64%. The fair
value of the warrant was amortized as a component of royalty
expense in cost of sales over the term of the licensing
agreement.

Note 5.  
     
     Brand Revenues and Geographic Operating Segments  

Enesco operates in the giftware, and home and garden d cor
industry with five major brand categories. The following table
summarizes net sales by major brand for 2005 and 2004:

64

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    Includes both  Precious
    Moments    
    product sales recorded under the PMI termination agreement (See
    Note 9 below) subsequent to June 30, 2005, and
    continuing sales by non-U.S. operations which were
    $3.0 million and $2.6 million in 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. 

(2)  
     
    Includes sales commissions and distribution service fees
    subsequent to June 30, 2005 earned from PMI under the
    transition agreement which services were substantially concluded
    by December 31, 2005. 

Enesco operates in two major geographic classifications, the
U.S. and International (comprised of Canada and Europe). Net
revenues and operating profit (loss) are grouped by the location
of each customer. The following table summarizes operations by
geographic classification for 2005, 2004 and 2003:

Total net revenues recorded in the U.K. for 2005, 2004 and 2003
were $76.9 million, $71.5 million and
$55.6 million, respectively. Total long-lived assets in the
U.K. at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were
$7.7 million, $10.5 million and $6.6 million,
respectively.

Total net revenues recorded in Canada for 2005, 2004 and 2003
were $29.8 million, $30.1 million and
$30.8 million, respectively. Total long-lived assets in
Canada at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were
$0.8 million, $0.9 million and $0.8 million,
respectively.

65

Table of Contents   

Transfers between geographic areas are made at the market value
of the merchandise transferred. No single customer accounted for
10% or more of consolidated net revenues. Export revenues from
sales to foreign unaffiliated customers represent less than 10%
of consolidated net revenues.

Note 6.  
     
     Income Taxes  

Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current
year presentation. The domestic and foreign components of income
(loss) before income taxes are as follows:

Income taxes (benefit) consist of the following:

A reconciliation of the tax expense computed at the
U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the total income tax
expense (benefit) is as follows:

The 2005 increase (reduction) in income tax accruals includes an
expense of $2.8 million related to the establishment of a
reserve for an audit assessment, and a $1.1 million benefit
from the reversal of previously recorded tax reserves no longer
required.

The 2004 tax expense includes a non-cash provision of
$18.6 million to establish a valuation allowance with
respect to deferred tax assets, as explained below. Effective as
of December 31, 2004, Enesco was no

66

Table of Contents   

longer able to rely upon the indefinite reversal criteria of
Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 23 with
respect to the reinvested earnings of certain of its foreign
subsidiaries due to the anticipated guarantee in 2005 of
Enesco s domestic debt by those subsidiaries, resulting in
the recognition of a $17.4 million deferred tax liability
and related tax expense. The debt guarantees were put into
effect during August 2005 resulting in the recognition of deemed
dividends from those subsidiaries for tax purposes under the
U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Enesco elected to treat foreign
taxes previously paid as deductions for U.S. federal tax
purposes rather than as credits that would be unlikely to be
used to offset future tax liabilities and, accordingly, reversed
$7.0 million of the liability to 2005 tax expense, as noted
above.

The 2003 benefit of $6.8 million related to the reduction
of income tax accruals, which were no longer required due to the
expiration of various statutes of limitations.

Income taxes paid for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004, and 2003 were $6.3 million, $3.9 million, and
$4.5 million respectively.

Enesco made no qualifying repatriations under the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004 (the  Act ) during 2005 as there
was no benefit to earnings repatriations under the Act in light
of Enesco s current and prior year domestic net operating
loss (NOL) carryforwards.

Significant components of Enesco s deferred tax assets and
liabilities as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:

As of December 31, 2005, Enesco had estimated carryforwards
for U.S. tax purposes as follows: i) NOLs of
$86.7 million, which expire between 2020 and 2025, and ii)
charitable contribution carryforwards of $2.4 million,
which expire between 2006 and 2010.

67

Table of Contents   

In 2004, due to the uncertainty of the realization of the
deferred tax assets, consisting principally of NOLs, Enesco
provided a valuation allowance of $18.6 million. In 2005,
no benefit was recorded for Enesco s domestic NOLs as the
result of a $28.4 million valuation allowance provision.
The changes in the valuation allowances for 2005 and 2004 were
$28.4 million and $18.6 million, respectively. The
ultimate realization of the net deferred tax assets is dependent
upon the generation of future taxable income during i) the
years in which temporary differences reverse and ii) the years
prior to the expiration of the NOLs. Management considers
appropriate tax planning strategies in making an assessment of
the likelihood of realizing the deferred tax assets. Based on
the consideration of these factors, management believes that it
is more likely than not that Enesco will realize the above net
deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Note 7.  
     
     Commitments and Contingencies  

Enesco incurred rental expense under operating leases of
$5.2 million in 2005, $5.1 million in 2004 and
$4.3 million in 2003.

The minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating
leases as of December 31, 2005, are as follows:

Enesco has entered into various licensing agreements requiring
royalty payments ranging from 2% to 20% of specified product
revenues. Royalty expenses, which are charged to cost of sales
under these licensing agreements, totaled $16.9 million in
2005, $26.0 million in 2004 and $18.9 million in 2003.
Future minimum guaranteed royalty payments are $2.1 million
in 2006 and $0.3 million in 2007.

On December 10, 2004, Enesco sold its Elk Grove Village
property, a warehouse and distribution facility, and certain
machinery and equipment, for approximately $19.8 million
and agreed to a five-year leaseback of the facility. The assets
sold had a net book value of $6.6 million at the date of
sale, resulting in the recognition of a $4.0 million gain
on the sale in December 2004. An additional $8.6 million of
gain was deferred, to be recognized over the five-year term of
the lease. In December 2005, Enesco notified the lessor of this
facility that it would terminate the lease on December 31,
2006 as provided for under the early termination clause of the
agreement. The deferred gain, which totaled $6.9 million at
December 1, 2005, will be recognized ratably over the
 13-month  period ending
December 31, 2006.

There are various legal proceedings pending against Enesco,
which have arisen during the normal course of business.
Management believes the ultimate outcome of those legal
proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on the
financial position or results of operations of Enesco.

Note 8.  
     
     Acquisitions, Divestitures and Goodwill  

Bilston & Battersea Enamels plc (B&B), a
manufacturer and distributor of giftware, home accessories and
related products, including high quality, hand-decorated enamels
and sculptural boxes sold under certain  Halcyon
Days    
brands, was acquired by Enesco in April 2003. Enesco paid
approximately $4.4 million in cash ($3.7 million net
of acquired cash), which resulted in $2.9 million of
goodwill related to the purchase.

68

Table of Contents   

In February 2004, Enesco acquired Gregg Gift, a supplier and
distributor of giftware in the U.S., for $7.3 million. In
connection with the acquisition, Enesco recorded approximately
$5.3 million of goodwill.

On July 21, 2004, the Enesco acquired certain assets of
Dartington Crystal Limited (Dartington) through its United
Kingdom subsidiary, Enesco Limited, for $7.0 million in
cash. The purchase price was funded by internally generated cash
from Enesco Limited. Dartington designs and manufactures a full
range of uncut crystal products, such as glassware, bowls,
vases, candleholders and giftware. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, Dartington contributed approximately
$13.6 million to consolidated net revenues. In the fourth
quarter of 2005, we performed our first annual impairment
analysis on the Dartington goodwill, and we concluded that
impairment existed at December 31, 2005. A complete
write-off of the Dartington goodwill of $1.1 million was
recorded at December 31, 2005.

As a result of our new product strategy announced in September
2005, it was decided that glassware was no longer a strategic
fit for Enesco. We therefore actively began marketing the sale
of the Dartington operation in the U.K. during the fourth
quarter of 2005. Enesco currently is reviewing offers and will
consider only those that exceed the current borrowing
availability associated with the Dartington assets.

The results of operations of these acquisitions are included in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations since the dates of
their acquisition. The goodwill balance in 2005 was only
impacted by the write-off of the Dartington goodwill of
$1.1 million and changes to foreign currency exchange rates.

Note 9.  
     
     Precious Moments Licensing Agreement Termination  

On May 17, 2005, we terminated our license agreement with
Precious Moments, Inc. (PMI) to sell  Precious
Moments    
products. On July 1, 2005, we began operating under an
agreement with PMI where Enesco provided PMI transitional
services related to its licensed inventory through
December 31, 2005. In conjunction with the PMI termination
agreement, in June 2005 we incurred a loss of $7.7 million
equal to the cost of inventory transferred to PMI. Management
does not expect to provide any transition services in 2006, as
PMI has exercised its option to perform the services in-house
beginning January 1, 2006.

During the transition period Enesco maintained inventories of
PMI products on a consignment basis and processed sales orders
on PMI s behalf. Enesco recorded the gross sale and cost of
sale of PMI products and, additionally, recorded a charge to
cost of sales for the sale amounts to be remitted to PMI, net of
the amounts due from PMI for inventory purchases. Enesco also
earned sales commissions and service fees from PMI for product
fulfillment, selling and marketing costs. At December 31,
2005, the net amount owed PMI was $2.8 million.

In April 2005, the  Lilliput
Lane   tm  
manufacturing facility in Workington, U.K. was closed and its
operations were consolidated into the Penrith, England
manufacturing plant. The closure resulted in a personnel
reduction of 55 employees with a one-time cost of
$0.9 million. The Workington plant was sold in September
2005 for $0.8 million, an amount approximating its net book
value less ordinary disposal costs.

On September 29, 2005, Enesco Limited announced its plan
for an additional reduction in workforce and recorded a
severance charge of $0.6 million, which is included in
selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations.

As part of our Operating Improvement Plan, Enesco contracted
with National Distribution Centers (NDC), a third-party
logistics firm, to manage our primary U.S. warehousing and
distribution operations. NDC operates a leased facility in the
Indianapolis metropolitan area, of which Enesco occupies
approximately 150,000 square feet. In late December 2005 we
began moving inventory from our EGV facility to NDC and in
January 2006, NDC began shipping products to our customers. To
account for the costs associated with the transition, we
recorded a restructuring charge of $0.2 million in the
fourth quarter of 2005. The EGV facility is scheduled to close
in 2006. Employment levels at the EGV facility were

69

Table of Contents   

reduced by 87 positions in January 2006 and an additional 87
positions are expected to be terminated in 2006 as business
needs dictate.

The Operating Improvement Plan also includes the termination of
leases at seven Enesco U.S. showrooms. We have established
a restructuring reserve of $0.6 million, which includes
employee severances, showroom lease termination costs and other
expenses associated with the showroom closures.

70

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Enesco Group, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Enesco Group, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005
and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
shareholders  equity and comprehensive income (loss), and
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2005. In connection with our audits of the
consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the
financial statement schedule as it relates to the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003. These consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Enesco Group, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in
our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/ KPMG LLP 

Chicago, Illinois

March 31, 2006

71

Table of Contents   

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 

Quarterly Financial Information 

For the Years 2005 and 2004 (Unaudited) 

The following tables set forth information with respect to the
consolidated quarterly results of operations for 2005 and 2004.
The amounts are unaudited, but, in the opinion of the management
of Enesco, include all adjustments necessary to present fairly
the results of operations for the periods indicated.

Net revenues of $56.0 million in the fourth quarter 2005
decreased $13.7 million compared to $69.7 in the fourth
quarter of 2004. Approximately $11.6 million of the
decrease was attributable to a decline in  Precious
Moments    
revenues due to the termination of the U.S. license
agreement during the second quarter of 2005. The decline in
gross margin of $5.8 million was largely the result of the
revenue decrease. Additionally, the gross margin percentage
decreased to 29.6% from 32.0% in the fourth quarter of 2004. The
percentage decline was caused by increases in the slow-moving
and excess inventory reserves, which resulted from the
additional discontinued inventories arising from the reduction
in the number of product lines pursuant to implementing
strategies under our Operating Improvement Plan. Selling,
general and administrative expenses declined $4.8 million
largely due to headcount reductions and other cost saving
initiatives implemented throughout the quarter. Operating income
in the fourth quarter of 2005 was also adversely effected by the
Dartington goodwill write-off of $1.1 million, and
severance and restructuring provisions of $1.0 million;
there were no similar changes to operating in the fourth quarter
of 2004.

Operating profit (loss) in the fourth quarter of 2004 benefited
from a $4.0 million gain on sale of a building of
$0.8 million compared to recognizing a deferred gain on
sale of building of $0.8 million in the fourth quarter of
2005. Also in the fourth quarter of 2004, Enesco recorded a
non-cash income tax expense of $18.6 million to establish a
valuation allowance with respect to deferred tax assets and an
additional non-cash income tax expense of $17.4 million to
record a deferred tax liability with respect to unremitted
earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, Enesco recorded
a $2.2 million increase to cost of sales for excess and
obsolete inventory.

72

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    The sum of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share for 2005
    and 2004 quarters does not equal the full year amount due to
    rounding and the impact of changes in average shares outstanding. 

(2)  
     
    Selling, general and administrative expenses include $428
    thousand, $428 thousand, $428 thousand and $815 thousand of
    amortization of deferred gain on sale of building for the
    quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30
    and December 31, 2005, respectively. 

73

Table of Contents   

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 

Schedule II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and
Reserves 

For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

(1)  
     
    Deductions reported for reserves for uncollectible accounts
    represent the actual write-off of customer accounts in part or
    full, deductions for reserves for returns and allowances
    represent actual customer allowances, and deductions for
    reserves for downsizing corporate headquarters, restructuring,
    and discontinued operations represent actual payments made
    relating to these activities. 

(2)  
     
    Charged to other accounts reported for reserves for returns and
    allowances and for reserves for customer rebates represent
    additions to the reserves charged to revenue. 

(3)  
     
    Data is not provided separately for additions and deductions
    columns of reserves for customer rebates as the amounts are
    immaterial. 

74

Table of Contents   

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 

Five-Year Financial Highlights 

For the Years 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 

The financial data set forth below should be read in connection
with the financial statements, accompanying notes and
management s discussion and analysis on the preceding pages.

Footnotes are provided on the Selected Financial Data schedule
of this report.

75

Table of Contents   

Item 9.  
     
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

There were no changes or disagreements with accountants on
accounting or financial disclosure during the last two fiscal
years.

Item 9A.  
     
      Controls and Procedures   

(a) Our management, including our Principal Executive
Officer and Principal Financial Officer, evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and 15(d)-15(e)) as of December 31, 2005. Our disclosure
controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed by
Enesco under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods
specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules
and forms, and that such information is accumulated and
communicated to Enesco s management, including its
Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer as
appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive
Officer and Principal Accounting Officer concluded that the
Enesco s disclosure controls and procedures were effective
as of December 31, 2005.

(b) There were no changes in our internal control over
financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31,
2005, that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.  
     
      Other Information   

On December 6, 2005, the Board of Directors approved the
accelerated vesting of options to acquire 608,658 shares of
common stock held by employees and non-employee directors that
would have otherwise vested over the next four years. In
connection with the acceleration, all holders of accelerated
options are restricted from selling shares acquired through the
exercise of an accelerated option (other than shares needed to
cover the exercise price and satisfy income tax withholding
obligations) prior to the earlier of the date on which the
exercise would have been permitted under the original vesting
terms of the options or, if earlier, the participant s last
day of employment. All options that were accelerated as of
December 6, 2005 had exercise prices in excess of the
market price of our common stock on that date. The primary
purpose of the acceleration of vesting of these options was to
eliminate the future compensation expense that we would have
otherwise been required to recognize in our consolidated
statement of operations with respect to these options once the
revised FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation, became effective for reporting periods beginning
in January 2006. As a result of the acceleration, we expect to
avoid recognition of approximately $1.9 million of
compensation expense over the course of the original vesting
period of these options.

PART III 

Item 10.  
     
      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

Information required by this item regarding the directors of
Enesco is set forth under the captions  Proposal 1:
Election of Directors  and  Information as to Board of
Directors and Nominees  and for the executive officers of
Enesco, under the caption  Executive Officers ,
included in Enesco s Proxy Statement which is incorporated
herein by reference.

Information required by this item regarding reporting compliance
is included under the caption  Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in Enesco s
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. Enesco
will file its Proxy Statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after the end of the
2005 fiscal year end covered by this Report.

76

Table of Contents   

Item 11.  
     
      Executive Compensation   

Information required by this item is set forth under the
captions  Executive Compensation,   Human
Resource and Compensation Committee Report on Executive
Compensation,   Performance Graph, 
 Compensation of Directors  and  Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in
Enesco s Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 12.  
     
      Security Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

Information required by this item regarding equity compensation
plans is set forth under the caption  Executive
Compensation  in Enesco s Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Information required by this item regarding security ownership
of management is set forth under the caption  Our Largest
Shareholders  and  Shares Held by Our Directors and
Executive Officers  in Enesco s Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  
     
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

Information required by this item is set forth under the caption
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  in
Enesco s Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 14.  
     
      Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

Information required by this item is set forth under the caption
 Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in
Enesco s Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by
reference.

PART IV 

Item 15.  
     
      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a)(1) and (2)  Financial Statements and Schedules. 
The financial statements and schedules required by this Item are
listed in the Index to Financial Statements and Schedules of
Enesco Group, Inc. in this
Form  10-K. 

(a)(3)  Exhibits.  The exhibits required by this Item
are listed in the Exhibit Index of this
Form  10-K. 

77

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on the 31st day of March 2006.

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 

(Registrant) 

By:  
     
    /s/ Cynthia Passmore 

Cynthia Passmore 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below on the 31st day of
March, 2006 by the following persons on behalf of the registrant
and in the capacities indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  

/s/ Cynthia Passmore 
     Cynthia Passmore 

Director, President and Chief Executive Officer 

/s/ Anthony G. Testolin 
     Anthony G. Testolin 

Chief Accounting Officer and Principal Financial Officer 

/s/ Anne-Lee Verville 
     Anne-Lee Verville 

Chairman of the Board, Director 

/s/ Richard W. Blackburn 
     Richard W. Blackburn 

Director 

/s/ Donna Brooks Lucas 
     Donna Brooks Lucas 

Director 

/s/ Leonard A. Campanaro 
     Leonard A. Campanaro 

Director 

/s/ George R. Ditomassi 
     George R. Ditomassi 

Director 

/s/ Judith R. Haberkorn 
     Judith R. Haberkorn 

Director 

/s/ Thane A. Pressman 
     Thane A. Pressman 

Director 

78

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

Table of Contents   

Table of Contents   

Table of Contents   

*  
     
    Incorporated By Reference 

<EX-10.(PP)>
 2
 c03867exv10wxppy.htm
 1999 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR PLAN AS AMENDED

exv10wxppy 

Exhibit 10(pp) 

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 
Itasca, Illinois

1999 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR PLAN 
(As amended May 19, 2004)

CERTIFICATE OF GRANT OF NON-QUALIFIED 
STOCK OPTIONS

Date of Grant:   Date  

Total Number of
Shares:   # of shares  

Price per Share: $ stock price  

To:
 First Name   Last Name 

Dear  First Name :

This letter is a certificate formally granting you Non-qualified Stock Options with
respect to the number of shares indicated above. The stock option
exercise price will be $  stock price .
Twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of shares subject to these options will become
exercisable on the first (1) anniversary date of the grant and every year thereafter for the
next three (3) years, subject to Section 10. The stock options granted are not to be treated
as incentive stock options under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

You may exercise your right to purchase all or any of the shares underlying this grant on
or after the date on which those shares become exercisable but, in
any event, not later than  expiration date .

In order to exercise, you must forward a completed Stock Option Exercise Order form
together with payment in full to the Treasurer, Enesco Group, Inc., 225 Windsor Drive, Itasca,
Illinois 60143, with a copy to the General Counsel, for the shares which you elect to purchase.
You can elect to make your purchase in cash, Enesco Group, Inc. (the  Company ) stock, or a
combination of cash and the Company stock.

Please be advised that the Company will accept shares acquired under a stock option
program of the Company in payment for new option shares only if the shares tendered by the
optionee have been held by such optionee for a period of at least six (6) months and are free
and clear of all liens and encumbrances.

No purchase can be made of fewer than ten (10) shares at any one time. Any exercise of
the options will be effective on the date when payment is received in the office of the
Treasurer, except that no payment will be accepted that is received
after  expiration date . You will receive,
at your discretion, a stock certificate representing shares for which you have made payment.

Under existing law, the difference between the price paid for any shares purchased under
these options and their market value on the date or dates the options are exercised will be
subject to any applicable taxes, including the withholding of federal income, social security
and medicare taxes. In addition, there may be applicable state or local taxes and withholding
requirements. The payment of all such taxes is, of course, your personal responsibility.
However, the Company also is responsible for meeting the withholding requirements and in order
to do so, will retain the required number of shares purchased under the options unless you
elect to deposit with your exercise form an amount equal to any required withholding. Please
refer to the provisions of Section 8(c) of the 1999 Plan.

All options granted to non-employee directors under the 1999 Plan are subject to the
termination provisions of Section 10 of the 1999 Plan. Please review these provisions
carefully in connection with your termination as a director.

This option is exercisable during your lifetime only by you and is not transferable by
you, except in the event of your death and then only as described in the Plan. Any attempted
transfer or other disposition of the option by you will be void and will constitute valid
grounds for its cancellation by the Company.

A copy of the 1999 Plan, as amended, is enclosed together with a Prospectus dated May 19,
2004. Please read these carefully. This stock option grant is made subject to the provisions
of the 1999 Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.

These options will be of no force or effect and no rights will exist after  expiration date .

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 

Name Secretary  
Secretary 

Enclosures

</EX-10.(PP)>

<EX-10.(QQ)>
 3
 c03867exv10wxqqy.htm
 1996 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AS AMENDED

exv10wxqqy 

Exhibit 10(qq) 

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 
Itasca, Illinois

1996 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 
(As amended May 19, 2004)

CERTIFICATE OF GRANT OF NON-QUALIFIED 
STOCK OPTIONS

Date of
Grant:   Date  

Total Number of
Shares:   # of shares  

Price per
Share: $   stock price 

To:
 First Name   Last Name 

Dear  First Name :

This letter is a certificate formally granting you Non-qualified Stock Options with
respect to the number of shares indicated above. The stock option
exercise price will be $  stock price .
Twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of shares subject to these options will become
exercisable on the first (1) anniversary date of the grant and every year thereafter for the
next three (3) years, subject to Section 10. The stock options granted are not to be treated
as incentive stock options under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

You may exercise your right to purchase all or any of the shares underlying this grant on
or after the date on which those shares become exercisable but, in
any event, not later than  expiration date .

In order to exercise, you must forward a completed Stock Option Exercise Order form
together with payment in full to the Treasurer, Enesco Group, Inc., 225 Windsor Drive, Itasca,
Illinois 60143, with a copy to the General Counsel, for the shares which you elect to purchase.
You can elect to make your purchase in cash, Enesco Group, Inc. (the  Company ) stock, or a
combination of cash and the Company stock.

Please be advised that the Company will accept shares acquired under a stock option
program of the Company in payment for new option shares only if the shares tendered by the
optionee have been held by such optionee for a period of at least six (6) months and are free
and clear of all liens and encumbrances.

No purchase can be made of fewer than ten (10) shares at any one time. Any exercise of
the options will be effective on the date when payment is received in the office of the
Treasurer, except that no payment will be accepted that is received
after  expiration date . You will receive,
at your discretion, a stock certificate representing shares for which you have made payment.

Under existing law, the difference between the price paid for any shares purchased under
these options and their market value on the date or dates the options are exercised will be
subject to any applicable taxes, including the withholding of federal income, social security
and medicare taxes. In addition, there may be applicable state or local taxes and withholding
requirements. The payment of all such taxes is, of course, your personal responsibility.
However, the Company also is responsible for meeting the withholding requirements and in order
to do so, will retain the required number of shares purchased under the options unless you
elect to deposit with your exercise form an amount equal to any required withholding. Please
refer to the provisions of Section 8(c) of the 1996 Plan.

All options granted to employees under the 1996 Plan are subject to the termination
provisions of Section 10 of the 1996 Plan. Please review these provisions carefully in
connection with your termination of employment.

This option is exercisable during your lifetime only by you and is not transferable by
you, except in the event of your death and then only as described in the Plan. Any attempted
transfer or other disposition of the option by you will be void and will constitute valid
grounds for its cancellation by the Company.

A copy of the 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended, is enclosed together with a
Prospectus dated May 19, 2004. Please read these carefully. This stock option grant is made
subject to the provisions of the 1996 Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.

These options will be of no force or effect and no rights will exist after  expiration date .

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 

Name Secretary  
Secretary 

Enclosures

</EX-10.(QQ)>

<EX-10.(RR)>
 4
 c03867exv10wxrry.htm
 1996 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AS AMENDED

exv10wxrry 

Exhibit 10(rr) 

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 
Itasca, Illinois

1996 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 
(As amended May 19, 2004)

CERTIFICATE OF GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK

Date
of Grant:   Date 

Total
Number of Shares:   # of shares 

To:
 First Name   Last Name 

Dear  First Name :

This letter is a certificate formally granting you Restricted Stock with respect to the
number of shares indicated above in recognition of your  year  Achievement Award. Twenty-five
percent (25%) of the total number of shares will become vested on each of the first four (4)
anniversary dates of the grant, subject to Section 9 of the Plan.

In addition to the Restricted Stock award, you will also be given a tax  gross-up  payment
to cover certain tax consequences to you as a result of the award. The tax gross-up payment
will be paid each year in  month  concurrently with the vesting of shares under this Award, so the
first payment will be in  month   year . This tax payment may not cover all of your tax expenses depending
on your individual circumstances at the time the stock vests. The Company shall have the right
to require you to pay the Company the amount of any taxes which the Company is or will be
required to withhold, as and when required by law, with respect to the receipt or vesting of
the Restricted Stock before the certificate for such Restricted Stock is delivered to you.
Furthermore, the Company may elect to deduct such taxes from any amounts then payable in cash
or shares or from any amounts payable anytime thereafter to you.  Please consult with your own
tax advisor or accountant as to the specific tax consequences to you as a result of the award. 

If you leave your employment with Enesco Group, Inc. for any reason prior to all of the
Restricted Stock vesting, then you will forfeit any shares that have not vested. You will be
able to vote all  # of shares  shares as a stockholder and receive any distributions with respect to the
shares (i.e. dividends, if declared); however, the Law Department will hold the actual stock
certificate until such time as all  # of shares  shares have vested (or whatever portion if your employment
at Enesco ends prior to that time).

All shares granted to employees under the 1996 Plan are subject to the termination
provisions of Section 9 of the 1996 Plan. Please review these provisions carefully in
connection with your termination of employment.

Until the shares have vested, they are not transferable by you, except in the event of
your death and then only as described in the Plan. Any attempted transfer or other disposition
of the shares by you will be void and will constitute valid grounds for its cancellation by the
Company.

A copy of the 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended, is enclosed together with a
Prospectus dated May 19, 2004. Please read these carefully. This Restricted Stock award is
made subject to the provisions of the Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.

Thank you and congratulations!

ENESCO GROUP, INC.  
 
 Name Secretary   
Secretary 

Enclosures

</EX-10.(RR)>

<EX-10.(SS)>
 5
 c03867exv10wxssy.htm
 1996 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AS AMENDED

exv10wxssy 

Exhibit 10(ss) 

ENESCO GROUP, INC. 
Itasca, Illinois

1996 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 
(As amended May 19, 2004)

CERTIFICATE OF GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK

Date of Grant:  Date  

Total Number of Shares:   # of shares  

To:   First
Name   Last Name 

Dear  First Name :

This letter is a certificate formally granting you Restricted Stock with respect to the
number of shares indicated above upon your appointment as  title  of Enesco Group, Inc. Thirty-three
and 1/3 percent (33 1/3%) of the total number of shares will become vested on each of the first
three (3) anniversary dates of the grant, subject to Section 9 of the Plan.

The Company shall have the right to require you to pay the Company the amount of any taxes
which the Company is or will be required to withhold, as and when required by law, with respect
to the receipt or vesting of the Restricted Stock before the certificate for such Restricted
Stock is delivered to you. Furthermore, the Company may elect to deduct such taxes from any
amounts then payable in cash or shares or from any amounts payable anytime thereafter to you.
 Please consult with your own tax advisor or accountant as to the specific tax consequences to
you as a result of the award. 

If you leave your employment with Enesco Group, Inc. for any reason prior to all of the
Restricted Stock vesting, then you will forfeit any shares that have not vested. You will be
able to vote all  # of shares  shares as a stockholder and receive any distributions with respect to the
shares (i.e. dividends, if declared); however, the Law Department will hold the actual stock
certificate until such time as all  # of shares  shares have vested (or whatever portion if your employment
at Enesco ends prior to that time).

All shares granted to employees under the 1996 Plan are subject to the termination
provisions of Section 9 of the 1996 Plan. Please review these provisions carefully in
connection with your termination of employment.

Until the shares have vested, they are not transferable by you, except in the event of
your death and then only as described in the Plan. Any attempted transfer or other disposition
of the shares by you will be void and will constitute valid grounds for its cancellation by the
Company.

A copy of the 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended, is enclosed together with a
Prospectus dated May 19, 2004. Please read these carefully. This Restricted Stock award is
made subject to the provisions of the Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.

ENESCO GROUP, INC.  
 
 Name Secretary  
Secretary 

Enclosures

</EX-10.(SS)>

<EX-21>
 6
 c03867exv21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES

exv21 

Exhibit 21 

Significant Subsidiaries of Enesco Group, Inc. 

The following are significant subsidiaries of Enesco Group, Inc.
as of December 31, 2005 and the states or jurisdictions in
which they are organized. The names of particular subsidiaries
have been omitted because, considered in the aggregate as a
single subsidiary, they would not constitute, as of the end of
the year covered by this report, a  significant
subsidiary  as that term is defined in Rule 1-02(w) of
Regulation S-X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Jurisdiction of  

Name  
       
      Organization  

Enesco Limited

England 

Enesco France S.A. 

France 

Enesco International Ltd. 

Delaware 

Enesco International (H.K) Limited

Hong Kong 

N.C. Cameron & Sons Limited

Ontario, Canada 

Enesco Holdings Limited

England 

Gregg Manufacturing, Inc. 

California 

All of the above-listed subsidiaries are included in
Enesco s consolidated financial statements for 2004 and
2005.

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 c03867exv23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23 

Exhibit 23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors

Enesco Group, Inc.:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
statements No. 33-42974, No. 333-68289,
No. 333-75345, No. 333-91312, No. 333-91318,
No. 333-105062, No. 333-105063, No. 333-108798,
No. 333-108799, No. 333-115730, and
No. 333-115731 of Enesco Group, Inc. of our report dated
March 31, 2006, with respect to the consolidated balance
sheets of Enesco Group, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, shareholders  equity and
comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, and
the related financial statement schedule, as it relates to the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, which report
appears in the December 31, 2005 annual report on
Form 10-K of Enesco Group, Inc. and subsidiaries.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Chicago, Illinois

March 31, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 c03867exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

Certification under Exchange Act
Rules  13a-14(a)  or
 15d-14(a)  

Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 

I, Cynthia Passmore, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
Form  10-K  of
Enesco Group, Inc.

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e)  for the
registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared; 

b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and 

c) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/ Cynthia Passmore 

Cynthia Passmore 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

March 31, 2006

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 c03867exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

Certification under Exchange Act
Rules  13a-14(a)  or
 15d-14(a)  

Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 

I, Anthony G. Testolin, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
Form  10-K  of
Enesco Group, Inc.

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e)  for the
registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared; 

b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and 

c) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrants fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
    report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
    financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/ Anthony G. Testolin 

Anthony G. Testolin 

Chief Accounting Officer 

(Principal Financial Officer) 

March 31, 2006

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 c03867exv32w1.htm
 STATEMENT OF CEO AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32 

Certification Pursuant to 

18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 

As Adopted Pursuant to 

Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Enesco
Group, Inc. (the  Company ) for the annual period
ended December 31, 2005, as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ),
I, Cynthia Passmore, the President and Chief Executive Officer
of the Company and Anthony G. Testolin, the Chief Accounting
Officer and principal financial officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted pursuant to
section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1)  
     
    the Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a)
    or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)  
     
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
    material respects, the financial condition and results of
    operations of the Company. 

March 31, 2006 

/s/ Cynthia Passmore 

Cynthia Passmore 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

/s/ Anthony G. Testolin 

Anthony G. Testolin 

Chief Accounting Officer 

(Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-32.1>

