<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_885542_0000948520-06-000045_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>403265</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>281215</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>847</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>37</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000948520-06-000045.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331123635
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000948520-06-000045
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PEOPLES BANCORPORATION INC /SC/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000885542
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				570951843
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			SC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20616
		FILM NUMBER:		06726810

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1800 E MAIN STREET
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 1989
		CITY:			EASLEY
		STATE:			SC
		ZIP:			29640
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8038592265

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1800 E MAIN ST
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 1989
		CITY:			EASLEY
		STATE:			SC
		ZIP:			29642

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Sa1XWk8Gn8VhO2sKUVtqs/tdmtgHZl5qX7sChafZPr8+pHhyeCBfYYCfI5TlGB/S
 DgLJRsLpTSZk0LM5Qh6wkg==

 0000948520-06-000045.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 peoples10k06.txt

United States
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

[X]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005

[ ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ____ TO ____

                         Commission File No. 000-20616
                          Peoples Bancorporation, Inc.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

            South Carolina                                      57-0951843
            --------------                                      ----------
     (State or other jurisdiction                             (IRS Employer
  of incorporation or organization)                        Identification No.)

               1818 East Main Street, Easley, South Carolina 29640
          (Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code)
       Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code: (864) 859-2265

             Securities  Registered Pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934:
                                      None

             Securities  Registered Pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934:
                          Common Stock, $1.11 Par Value
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark if the  registrant is a well-known  seasoned  issuer,  as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes [ ]      No [X]

Indicate  by  check  mark if the  registrant  is not  required  to file  reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes [ ]   No [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large  accelerated  filer, an
accelerated  filer, or a  non-accelerated  filer. See definition of "accelerated
filer and large  accelerated  filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange  Act.  (Check
one):
Large accelerated filer [ ] Accelerated filer [ ]      Non-accelerated filer [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes [ ]   No [X]

The aggregate  market value of the voting and  non-voting  common equity held by
nonaffiliates  of the  Registrant  (4,127,093  shares)  on  June  30,  2005  was
approximately  $70,160,600.  The  aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting  and
non-voting  common equity held by  nonaffiliates  of the  Registrant  (4,362,586
shares) on March 13, 2006 was  approximately  $57,804,300.  As of such dates, no
organized trading market existed for the common stock of the Registrant. For the
purpose of this response,  officers,  directors and holders of 5% or more of the
Registrant's common stock are considered affiliates of the Registrant.

The number of shares  outstanding of the Registrant's  common stock, as of March
13, 2006: 6,250,006 shares of $1.11 par value common stock.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the  Registrant's  Proxy  Statement  for the 2006 Annual  Meeting of
Shareholders - Part III

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

         This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements relating to such
matters as anticipated financial performance, business prospects,  technological
developments,  new products and similar  matters.  All  statements  that are not
historical  facts are  "forward-looking  statements."  Words such as "estimate,"
"project,"  "intend,"  "expect,"  "believe,"  "anticipate,"  "plan," and similar
expressions   identify   forward-looking   statements.   These   forward-looking
statements are based on current  expectations,  estimates and projections  about
our industry,  management's  beliefs,  and assumptions made by management.  Such
information   includes,   without  limitation,   discussions  as  to  estimates,
expectations,   beliefs,  plans,  strategies,   and  objectives  concerning  the
Company's future financial and operating  performance.  These statements are not
guarantees of future  performance  and are subject to risks,  uncertainties  and
assumptions that are difficult to predict.  Therefore, actual results may differ
materially   from  those   expressed  or  forecasted  in  such   forward-looking
statements.

          The Private  Securities  Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe
harbor for forward-looking statements. In order to comply with terms of the safe
harbor,  the Company  notes that a variety of factors  could cause the Company's
actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated  results
or other expectations expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements. The
risks  and   uncertainties   that  may  affect  the  operations,   performances,
development and results of the Company's  business include,  but are not limited
to, the  following:  risks from  changes in economic  and  industry  conditions;
changes in interest rates;  risks inherent in making loans  including  repayment
risks  and value of  collateral;  adequacy  of the  allowance  for loan  losses;
dependence on senior management;  and recently-enacted or proposed  legislation.
Statements  contained  in this  filing  regarding  the demand for the  Company's
products and services,  changing economic conditions,  interest rates,  consumer
spending and numerous  other factors may be  forward-looking  statements and are
subject to uncertainties and risks.

         The Company  undertakes no obligation to publicly  update or revise any
forward-looking  statements,  whether  as a result  of new  information,  future
events or otherwise.  In light of these risks,  uncertainties,  and assumptions,
the forward-looking events discussed in this report might not occur.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.           BUSINESS

The Company

         Peoples  Bancorporation,  Inc. (the "Company") was  incorporated  under
South  Carolina law on March 6, 1992, for the purpose of becoming a bank holding
company by  acquiring  all of the common  stock of The  Peoples  National  Bank,
Easley,  South Carolina.  The Company commenced  operations on July 1, 1992 upon
effectiveness  of the  acquisition  of The Peoples  National  Bank. In 2000, the

2

Company  elected  to  become a  financial  holding  company,  but it has not yet
engaged in any  activities  permitted to financial  holding  companies  that are
impermissible  for bank holding  companies.  The Company has three  wholly-owned
subsidiaries: The Peoples National Bank, Easley, South Carolina, a national bank
which commenced business  operations in August 1986; Bank of Anderson,  National
Association,  Anderson, South Carolina, a national bank which commenced business
operations in September 1998; and, Seneca National Bank, Seneca, South Carolina,
a national bank which commenced business  operations in February 1999 (sometimes
referred to herein as "the Banks").

         The  Company  engages  in no  significant  operations  other  than  the
ownership  of its  three  subsidiaries  and the  support  thereof.  The  Company
conducts its business from seven banking  offices located in the Upstate Area of
South Carolina.

         The  principal  offices of the  Company  are  located at 1818 East Main
Street,  Easley,  South Carolina 29640. The Company's  telephone number is (864)
859-2265.  The principal  office of The Peoples National Bank is located at 1800
East Main Street,  Easley, South Carolina 29640. The principal office of Bank of
Anderson,  National  Association  is  located  at 201  East  Greenville  Street,
Anderson, South Carolina 29621, and the principal office of Seneca National Bank
is located at 201 Bypass 123, Seneca, South Carolina 29678.

General Business

         Some of the major  services  which the  Company  provides  through  its
banking subsidiaries include checking accounts; NOW accounts;  savings and other
time  deposits  of  various  types;  daily  repurchase  agreements;  alternative
investment products such as annuities, mutual funds, stocks and bonds; loans for
business,   agriculture,  real  estate,  personal  uses,  home  improvement  and
automobiles;  residential  mortgage loan origination;  credit cards;  letters of
credit; home equity lines of credit; an accounts  receivable  financing program;
safe deposit boxes; bank money orders; wire transfer services;  Internet banking
and use of ATM facilities.  The Banks do not have trust powers.  The Company has
no  material  concentration  of  deposits  from any single  customer or group of
customers.  No significant  portion of its loans is concentrated within a single
industry  or group  of  related  industries  and the  Company  does not have any
foreign loans. There are no material seasonal factors that would have an adverse
effect on the Company.

         As a financial holding company,  the Company is a legal entity separate
and  distinct  from its  subsidiaries.  The Company  coordinates  the  financial
resources of the consolidated  enterprises and maintains financial,  operational
and  administrative  systems that allow  centralized  evaluation  of  subsidiary
operations and coordination of selected  policies and activities.  The Company's
operating  revenues and net income are derived  primarily from its  subsidiaries
through dividends and fees for services performed.

3

Territory Served and Competition

         The Peoples National Bank serves its customers from four locations; two
offices  in the city of  Easley  and one  office in the city of  Pickens,  South
Carolina,   which  are  located  in  Pickens  County,  and  one  office  in  the
unincorporated  community of Powdersville,  South Carolina,  which is located in
the northeast section of Anderson County, South Carolina. Easley, South Carolina
is located approximately 10 miles west of Greenville,  South Carolina.  Pickens,
South  Carolina  is  located   approximately  8  miles  north  of  Easley,   and
Powdersville,  South  Carolina is located  approximately  12 miles  southeast of
Easley.

         Bank of Anderson,  National Association,  serves its customers from one
location in the City of Anderson and another location in Anderson County,  South
Carolina.  Anderson is located  approximately  25 miles southwest of Greenville,
South Carolina and  approximately  25 miles south of Easley in Anderson  County,
South Carolina.

         Seneca National Bank serves its customers from one location in the City
of Seneca, South Carolina. Seneca is located approximately 30 miles northwest of
Easley, South Carolina in Oconee County, South Carolina.

         Each  subsidiary  of the Company is a separately  chartered  bank,  and
therefore  each bank is  responsible  for  developing  and  maintaining  its own
customers and accounts.  Located in Easley, South Carolina, The Peoples National
Bank's  customer  base has been  primarily  derived from Pickens  County,  South
Carolina and the northeast section of Anderson County,  South Carolina.  Bank of
Anderson's  primary  service  area is  Anderson  County,  South  Carolina,  more
particularly,  the City of Anderson.  Seneca  National  Bank derives most of its
customer  base from the City of Seneca  and  surrounding  Oconee  County,  South
Carolina.

         The  Banks  compete  with  several  major  banks,  which  dominate  the
commercial  banking  industry  in their  service  areas  and in  South  Carolina
generally.  In addition,  the Banks compete with other community banks,  savings
institutions  and credit  unions.  In  Pickens  County,  there are  thirty  (30)
competitor bank offices, one (1) savings  institution,  and two (2) credit union
offices. In Anderson County there are fifty-six (56) competitor bank offices and
five (5)  credit  union  offices.  In  Oconee  County,  there are  fifteen  (15)
competitor  bank  offices,  four (4) savings  institution  offices,  and one (1)
credit union office.  The Peoples National Bank had approximately  13.22% of the
deposits of FDIC-insured  institutions in Pickens County.  The Peoples  National
Bank and Bank of Anderson,  combined, had approximately 8.87% of the deposits of
FDIC-insured   institutions  in  Anderson  County.   Seneca  National  Bank  had
approximately  4.55% of the  deposits  of  FDIC-insured  institutions  in Oconee
County.  The foregoing  information is as of June 30, 2005, the most recent date
for which such information is available from the FDIC.

         Many competitor  institutions have substantially  greater resources and
higher lending  limits than the Banks,  and they perform  certain  functions for

4

their customers, including trust services and investment banking services, which
none of the Banks is equipped  to offer  directly.  However,  the Banks do offer
some of these services  through  correspondent  banks. In addition to commercial
banks,  savings  institutions and credit unions,  the Banks compete for deposits
and loans with  other  financial  intermediaries  and  investment  alternatives,
including,  but not limited to, mortgage  companies,  captive finance companies,
money market mutual funds,  brokerage firms,  insurance companies,  governmental
and  corporation  bonds  and  other   securities.   Several  of  these  non-bank
competitors are not subject to the same  regulatory  restrictions as the Company
and its  subsidiaries  and many have  substantially  greater  resources than the
Company.

         The extent to which other types of financial  institutions compete with
commercial  banks has  increased  significantly  within  the past few years as a
result  of  federal  and  state  legislation  that  has,  in  several  respects,
deregulated financial institutions.  The full impact of existing legislation and
subsequent laws that deregulate the financial  services industry cannot be fully
assessed or predicted.

5

DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY; INTEREST RATES AND
INTEREST DIFFERENTIAL

         The following is a  presentation  of the average  consolidated  balance
sheets of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. This
presentation  includes  all major  categories  of  interest-earning  assets  and
interest-bearing liabilities:

6

The  following  is a  presentation  of an analysis of the net  interest
income of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2005,  2004 and 2003 with
respect  to each  major  category  of  interest-earning  assets  and each  major
category of interest-bearing liabilities:

* Yield adjusted to a fully taxable equivalent basis using a federal tax rate of
34%.

For purposes of these analyses,  non-accruing  loans are included in the average
balances.  Loan  fees  included  in  interest  earned  are not  material  to the
presentation. Net yield on interest-earning assets is calculated by dividing net
interest earnings by total interest-earning assets.

7

* Yield adjusted to a fully taxable equivalent basis using a federal tax rate of
34%.

For purposes of these analyses,  non-accruing  loans are included in the average
balances.  Loan  fees  included  in  interest  earned  are not  material  to the
presentation. Net yield on interest-earning assets is calculated by dividing net
interest earnings by total interest-earning assets.

8

* Yield adjusted to a fully taxable equivalent basis using a federal tax rate of
34%.

For purposes of these analyses,  non-accruing  loans are included in the average
balances.  Loan  fees  included  in  interest  earned  are not  material  to the
presentation. Net yield on interest-earning assets is calculated by dividing net
interest earnings by total interest-earning assets.

9

RATE/VOLUME ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME

         The  effect  of  changes  in  average  balances  (volume)  and rates on
interest  income,  interest  expense and net  interest  income,  for the periods
indicated,  is shown below.  The effect of a change in average  balance has been
determined  by applying the average rate in the earlier  period to the change in
average balance in the later period,  as compared with the earlier  period.  The
effect of a change in the  average  rate has been  determined  by  applying  the
average  balance in the earlier  period to the change in the average rate in the
later period, as compared with the earlier period.

Note:  Changes  that are not  solely  attributable  to  volume or rate have been
allocated to volume and rate on a pro-rata basis.

For purposes of these analyses,  non-accruing  loans are included in the average
balances.  Tax-exempt  income is shown on an  actual,  rather  than,  tax-exempt
basis.   Loan  fees  included  in  interest  earned  are  not  material  to  the
presentation. Net yield on interest-earning assets is calculated by dividing net
interest earnings by total interest-earning assets.

         As reflected  in the table above,  most of the increase in net interest
income of $2,735,000 during 2005 was due to the change in volume. The $5,227,000
increase  in  interest  income was related to the change in volume and change in

10

rates in the loan portfolios. In reviewing the Company's deposits, substantially
all the $2,492,000  increase in interest expense was due to the increases in the
rates paid on all deposit accounts, principally Certificates of Deposit.

Note:  Changes  that are not  solely  attributable  to  volume or rate have been
allocated to volume and rate on a pro-rata basis.

For purposes of these analyses,  non-accruing  loans are included in the average
balances.  Tax-exempt  income is shown on an  actual,  rather  than,  tax-exempt
basis.   Loan  fees  included  in  interest  earned  are  not  material  to  the
presentation. Net yield on interest-earning assets is calculated by dividing net
interest earnings by total interest-earning assets.

         As reflected in the table above, the increase in net interest income of
$1,241,000  during  2004 was due to the change in volume.  The  majority  of the
$156,000  increase  in interest  income was related to the volume  growth in the
loan portfolios,  lessened by the change in rates, and the exit of the wholesale
mortgage loan division of The Peoples  National Bank. In reviewing the Company's
deposits,  substantially all the $1,085,000 decrease in interest expense was due
to the decreases in the rates paid on all deposit  accounts,  principally  Money
Market accounts and Certificates of Deposit.

11

LOAN PORTFOLIO

         The Company engages, through the Banks, in a full complement of lending
activities, including commercial, consumer, installment, and real estate loans.

         Commercial  lending is directed  principally  towards  businesses whose
demands for funds fall within each  Bank's  legal  lending  limits and which are
potential  deposit customers of the Banks. This category of loans includes loans
made to individuals, partnerships or corporate borrowers, and which are obtained
for a variety of business  purposes.  Particular  emphasis is placed on loans to
small and  medium-sized  businesses.  The Company's  commercial loans are spread
throughout  a  variety  of  industries,  with no  industry  or group of  related
industries   accounting  for  a  significant  portion  of  the  commercial  loan
portfolio.  Commercial  loans are made on either a secured or  unsecured  basis.
When taken,  security  usually  consists of liens on  inventories,  receivables,
equipment, and furniture and fixtures.  Unsecured commercial loans are generally
short-term with emphasis on repayment strengths and low debt to worth ratios. At
December 31, 2005, approximately  $9,936,000,  or 7.7%, of commercial loans were
unsecured compared to approximately $8,675,000 or 6.4% at December 31, 2004.

         The Company's  real estate loans are primarily  construction  loans and
loans secured by real estate,  both commercial and  residential,  located within
the Company's  market  areas.  The Company does not actively  pursue  long-term,
fixed-rate  mortgage  loans for  retention in its loan  portfolio.  The Banks do
employ  mortgage  loan  originators  who  originate  loans that are  pre-sold at
origination to third parties. The Company formerly also purchased mortgage loans
through a wholesale  mortgage loan division of The Peoples  National Bank, which
loans were pre-sold at origination to third parties. These loans were classified
as loans held for sale for reporting  purposes.  In 2004, the Company originated
$149,881,000 and sold  $156,689,000 in mortgage loans held for sale.  Management
made the decision to completely exit the wholesale  mortgage business by the end
of 2004. Accordingly, there were no mortgage loans held for sale at December 31,
2005 and 2004.

         The  Banks'  direct   consumer  loans  consist   primarily  of  secured
installment  loans to individuals for personal,  family and household  purposes,
including automobile loans to individuals, and pre-approved lines of credit.

         Management believes the loan portfolio is adequately diversified.  Real
estate  lending  (both  mortgage  and  construction  loans)  continues to be the
largest component of the loan portfolio,  representing  $318,632,000 or 84.4% of
total loans at December 31, 2005,  compared to $264,925,000 or 81.3% at year-end
2004. There are no foreign loans and few agricultural loans. The following table
presents  various  categories of loans contained in the Company's loan portfolio
and the total  amount of all loans at December 31, 2005,  2004,  2003,  2002 and
2001.

12

Loan Portfolio Composition
(dollars in thousands)

The following is a  presentation  of an analysis of maturities of loans
as of December 31, 2005:

All loans are  recorded  according  to  contractual  terms,  and  demand  loans,
overdrafts,  and loans having no stated repayment terms or maturity are reported
as due in one year or less.

         At  December  31,  2005,  the  amount  of loans due after one year with
predetermined  interest rates totaled approximately  $4,538,000 while the amount
of loans due after one year with floating  interest rates totaled  approximately
$194,485,000.

13

The following table presents information on non-performing loans and real estate
acquired in settlement of loans:

In an effort to more  accurately  reflect  the status of the  Company's
loan  portfolio,  accrual of interest is  discontinued  on a loan that  displays
certain problem indications which might jeopardize full and timely collection of
principal and/or interest.  The Company's Loan Policy drives the  administration
of  problem  loans.  Loans are  monitored  through  continuing  review by credit
managers,  monthly reviews of exception  reports,  and ongoing analysis of asset
quality trends,  economic and business factors.  Credit  management  activities,
including specific reviews of new large credits,  are reviewed by the Directors'
Loan Committees of each banking subsidiary, which meet monthly.

         With  respect to the loans  accounted  for on a  non-accrual  basis and
restructured  loans,  the gross interest income that would have been recorded if
the  loans  had been  current  in  accordance  with  their  original  terms  and
outstanding  throughout the period or since  origination  amounts to $89,000 for
the year ended  December 31, 2005. The interest on those loans that was included
in net income for 2005 amounts to $22,000.

         As of  December  31,  2005,  there  were  no  potential  problem  loans
classified for regulatory  purposes as doubtful,  substandard or special mention
that have not been disclosed above, which (i) represent or result from trends or
uncertainties which management  reasonably expects will materially impact future
operating  results,  liquidity,  or capital  resources of the  Company,  or (ii)
represent  material  credits about which  management is aware of any information
which  causes  management  to have  serious  doubts  as to the  ability  of such
borrowers to comply with the loan repayment terms.

         The Company accounts for impaired loans in accordance with Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No. 114  "Accounting by Creditors for
Impairment of a Loan." A loan is impaired when, based on current information and
events,  it is  probable a creditor  will be unable to collect  all  amounts due
(interest as well as principal)  according to the contractual  terms of the loan

14

agreement.  Under  Statement  No. 114, a loan is also impaired when its original
terms are modified in a troubled debt restructuring. SFAS No. 114, as amended by
SFAS No. 118,  requires  that  impaired  loans be measured  based on the present
value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective  interest
rate, the market price of the loan, if available,  or the underlying  collateral
values as defined in the pronouncement. The Company complies with the provisions
of SFAS No. 114, as necessary,  when  determining  the adequacy of the allowance
for  loan  losses.  When  the  ultimate  collectibility  of an  impaired  loan's
principal is in doubt,  wholly or  partially,  all cash  receipts are applied to
principal.  When this doubt does not exist,  cash receipts are applied under the
contractual terms of the loan agreement. Once the recorded principal balance has
been reduced to zero,  future cash receipts are applied to interest  income,  to
the extent that any  interest  has been  foregone.  Further  cash  receipts  are
recorded as  recoveries  on any amounts  previously  charged off.  There were no
impaired loans at each of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004.

15

PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES, LOAN LOSS EXPERIENCE

         The  purpose of the  Company's  allowance  for loan losses is to absorb
loan  losses  that  occur  in the  loan  portfolios  of its  bank  subsidiaries.
Management  determines  the adequacy of the allowance  quarterly and considers a
variety of factors in  establishing  a level of the allowance for losses and the
related  provision,   which  is  charged  to  expense.   Factors  considered  in
determining  the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses  include:  historical
loan losses experienced by the Company,  current economic conditions affecting a
borrower's  ability to repay,  the volume of  outstanding  loans,  the trends in
delinquent,  non-accruing  and  potential  problem  loans,  and the  quality  of
collateral  securing  non-performing and problem loans. By considering the above
factors,  management  attempts to determine the amount of reserves  necessary to
provide for inherent losses in the loan portfolios of its subsidiaries. However,
the amount of  reserves  may  change in  response  to  changes in the  financial
condition of larger  borrowers,  changes in the  Company's  local  economies and
expected industry trends.

         The allowance for loan losses for each  portfolio  segment is set at an
amount  that  reflects  management's  best  judgment  of  the  extent  to  which
historical loss levels are more or less accurate indicators of current losses in
the loan portfolios of its bank  subsidiaries.  While it is the Company's policy
to  charge  off in the  current  period  loans  in  which a loss  is  considered
probable,  there are  inherent  losses that cannot be  quantified  precisely  or
attributed  to  particular  loans or classes of loans.  Because the state of the
economy,  industry trends,  and conditions  affecting  individual  borrowers may
affect the  amount of such  losses,  management's  estimate  of the  appropriate
amount of the allowance is necessarily  approximate  and imprecise.  The Company
and its bank  subsidiaries  are also  subject  to  regulatory  examinations  and
determinations  as to adequacy of the allowance for loan losses,  which may take
into account such factors as the methodology used to calculate the allowance for
loan losses and the size of the  allowance  for loan losses in  comparison  to a
group of peer companies identified by the regulatory agencies.

         In  assessing  the  adequacy  of  the  allowance,   management   relies
predominantly on its ongoing review of the loan portfolio,  including historical
charge-offs,  which is undertaken  both to ascertain  whether there are probable
losses  that must be charged off and to assess the risk  characteristics  of the
portfolio  in the  aggregate.  The Company  utilizes  its credit  administration
department,  as well as the services of an outside consultant from time to time,
to perform  quality  reviews of its loan  portfolio.  The review  considers  the
judgments and estimates of management and also those of bank regulatory agencies
that review the loan portfolio as part of their regular examination process. The
Comptroller  of the  Currency,  as part of its  routine  examination  process of
national  banks,  including the Company's  Banks,  may require  additions to the
allowance  for  loan  losses  based  upon  the  regulators'  credit  evaluations
differing from those of management.  The Company's management believes they have
in place the controls and  personnel to adequately  monitor its loan  portfolios
and the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses.

16

Management  does not  segregate  the allowance by loan category and the
entire allowance is available to absorb losses from all loan categories.

         At December 31, 2005 the allowance for loan losses was  $3,854,000,  or
1.02% of gross  outstanding  loans,  compared to  $3,691,000,  or 1.13% of gross
outstanding loans at December 31, 2004. During 2005, the Company experienced net
charge-offs of $685,000,  or 0.19% of average loans, compared to net charge-offs
of  $336,000,  or  0.11%  of  average  loans  during  2004.  Consumer  loan  net
charge-offs  were  $168,000 in 2005  compared to net  charge-offs  of $61,000 in
2004.  Commercial  loan net  charge-offs  were  $31,000 in 2005  compared to net
charge-offs of $166,000 in 2004.  Mortgage loan net charge-offs were $486,000 in
2005 compared to net charge-offs of $109,000 in 2004.

         The Company made  provisions for loan losses of $848,000 in fiscal 2005
compared to $589,000 for fiscal 2004. The increased  provision was  attributable
to the increase in net loans charged off.

         Management  continues to closely  monitor the levels of  non-performing
and potential  problem loans and will address the weaknesses in these credits to
enhance the amount of ultimate  collection or recovery on these  assets.  Should
increases in the overall level of  non-performing  and  potential  problem loans
accelerate from the current trend,  management intends to adjust the methodology
for  determining  the  allowance for loan losses and will increase the provision
and allowance for loan losses. This would likely decrease net income.

         The following table  summarizes the allowance for loan loss balances of
the Company at the  beginning  and end of each period,  changes in the allowance
arising  from  charge-offs  and  recoveries  by category  and  additions  to the
allowance, which have been charged to expense.

Analysis of the Allowance for Loan Losses
(dollars in thousands)

17

The  following  table  sets  forth  ratios  of net  charge-offs  or the
allowance for loan losses to the items stated:

Asset Quality Ratios:

The  allowance  for loan  losses  is  increased  by direct  charges  to
operating  expense  through the provision  for loan losses.  Losses on loans are
charged against the allowance in the period in which management determines it is
more  likely  than  not  that  the  full  amounts  of  such  loans  have  become
uncollectable.  Recoveries of previously  charged-off  loans are credited to the
allowance.

         Management  considers the  allowance for loan losses  adequate to cover
inherent losses on the loans outstanding at December 31, 2005. In the opinion of
management,  there are no material risks or significant loan  concentrations  in
the present portfolio. It must be emphasized, however, that the determination of
the allowance for loan losses using the Company's  procedures  and methods rests
upon various  judgments,  estimates  and  assumptions  about  present and future
economic conditions and other factors affecting loans. No assurance can be given
that the Company will not sustain loan losses in any particular period which are
sizable in relation to the amount reserved or that subsequent  evaluation of the
loan  portfolio,  in light of conditions and factors then  prevailing,  will not
require  significant  changes in the allowance for loan losses or future charges
to  earnings.  The  allowance  for loan  losses is also  subject  to review  and
approval by various regulatory  agencies through their periodic  examinations of
the Company's  subsidiaries.  Such examinations could result in required changes
to the allowance for loan losses.

INVESTMENTS

         The Company  invests  primarily in  obligations of the United States or
obligations  guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States, other
taxable securities and in certain obligations of states and municipalities.  The
Banks enter into federal funds  transactions with their principal  correspondent
banks and usually act as net  sellers of such funds.  The sale of federal  funds
amounts to a short-term loan from the selling bank to the other bank.

                                       18

The following table summarizes the book and market values of investment
securities held by the Company at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.

The Company  accounts for  investments in accordance with SFAS No. 115,
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities."  Investments
classified as available for sale are carried at market value. Unrealized holding
gains or losses are  reported  as a  component  of  shareholders'  equity net of
deferred income taxes in comprehensive income. Securities classified as held for
investment are carried at cost,  adjusted for the  amortization  of premiums and
the  accretion of  discounts.  In order to qualify as held for  investment,  the
Company must have the ability and intent to hold the securities to maturity. The
Company has no trading securities.

         At  December  31,  2005  the  Company's  total   investment   portfolio
classified  as available for sale had a book value of  $66,303,000  and a market
value of $65,009,000  for an unrealized  net loss of $1,294,000.  The changes in
the market  valuation of the investment  portfolio were directly  related to the
changes in market  interest  rates during the year and not the credit quality of
the issuer and therefore, these losses are not considered  other-than-temporary.
Management   believes   that   maintaining   most  of  its   securities  in  the
available-for-  sale category provides greater  flexibility in the management of
the overall investment portfolio. The Company has the ability and intent to hold
these securities until the value recovers or the securities mature.

19

The  following   table   indicates  the   respective   maturities   and
weighted-average yields of securities as of December 31, 2005:

* Yield adjusted to a fully taxable equivalent basis using a federal tax rate of
34%.
**  Weighted  average  yields  on  available  for sale  securities  are based on
amortized cost.

DEPOSITS

         The   Company   offers   a   full   range   of   interest-bearing   and
noninterest-bearing accounts, including commercial and retail checking accounts,
negotiable orders of withdrawal ("NOW") accounts,  public funds accounts,  money
market  accounts,  individual  retirement  accounts,  including Keogh plans with
stated  maturities,  regular  interest-bearing  statement  savings  accounts and
certificates  of deposit with fixed rates and a range of maturity  date options.
The sources of deposits are  residents,  businesses  and employees of businesses
within the Company's market areas obtained through the personal  solicitation of
the  Company's   officers  and   directors,   direct  mail   solicitations   and
advertisements  published  in the local  media.  From  time to time the  Company
garners  deposits  from sources  outside of its normal  trade areas  through the
Internet or through  brokers.  These  deposits are  short-term in nature and are
used to manage the  Company's  short-term  liquidity  position.  These  brokered
deposits are generally more volatile than deposits  acquired in the local market
areas.  There were no Internet  deposits at December  31, 2005 and  December 31,

20

2004.  There were no brokered  deposits at December  31, 2005 and  December  31,
2004.  During  2005  and  2004  the  Company  reduced  its  dependence  on these
nontraditional  deposits,  replacing  them with core deposits  obtained  through
several market area deposit  gathering  campaigns.  The Company pays competitive
interest rates on interest checking,  savings, money market, time and individual
retirement  accounts.  In addition,  the Banks have implemented a service charge
fee schedule competitive with other financial  institutions in the Banks' market
areas, covering such matters as maintenance fees on checking accounts,  per item
processing fees on checking accounts, returned check charges and the like.

         The Company's  average deposits in 2005 were  $381,749,000  compared to
$352,754,000  the prior year,  an increase of  $28,995,000  or 8.2%. In 2005 the
average noninterest-bearing deposits increased approximately $3,069,000 or 6.4%,
average  interest-bearing  checking  accounts  increased  $8,885,000  or  20.7%,
average  savings  accounts  increased  $925,000 or 8.5%,  average  money  market
accounts  decreased   $5,854,000  or  10.9%,  average  certificates  of  deposit
increased  $19,394,000 or 11.3%, and individual  retirement  accounts  increased
$2,576,000 or 10.3%.  Competition for deposit accounts is primarily based on the
interest rates paid,  service charge structure,  location  convenience and other
services offered.

         The following  table  presents,  for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003,  the  average  amount of, and  average  rate paid on, each of the
following deposit categories:

The Company's core deposit base consists of consumer time deposits less
than  $100,000,  savings  accounts,  NOW  accounts,  money  market  accounts and
checking  accounts.  Although  such  core  deposits  are  becoming  increasingly
interest-sensitive  for both the Company and the industry as a whole,  such core
deposits  continue  to provide  the  Company  with a large and stable  source of
funds.  Core  deposits  as a  percentage  of  average  total  deposits  averaged
approximately  77% in 2005 compared to  approximately  75% in 2004.  The Company
closely monitors its reliance on certificates of deposits greater than $100,000,
which are generally considered less stable and less reliable than core deposits.
However,  local  customers hold virtually all of these  certificates  of deposit
over $100,000.

         The following table indicates amounts  outstanding of time certificates
of deposit of  $100,000 or more and  respective  maturities  as of December  31,
2005:

                                                    Time Certificates of Deposit
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                        (dollars in thousands)
                   3 months or less ..................      $   19,574
                   4-6 months ........................          10,104
                   7-12 months .......................          22,335
                   Over 12 months ....................          47,242
                                                            ----------
                            Total ....................      $   99,255
                                                            ==========

21

RETURN ON EQUITY AND ASSETS

         Returns on average  consolidated assets and average consolidated equity
for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:

(1)  Includes cash-in-lieu of fractional shares paid on 5% stock dividend.
(2)  Includes cash-in-lieu of fractional shares paid on 3-for-2 stock split.

SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

         The following table summarizes the Company's short-term  borrowings for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.  These  borrowings  consist of
federal funds  purchased and  securities  sold under  agreements to  repurchase,
which generally mature on a one-business-day basis.

22

MARKET RISK - INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY

         Market risk is the risk of loss  arising  from  adverse  changes in the
fair value of financial  instruments due to a change in interest rates, exchange
rates  and  equity  prices.  The  Company's  primary  type  of  market  risk  is
interest-rate risk.

         The primary objective of  Asset/Liability  Management at the Company is
to manage  interest-rate risk and achieve  reasonable  stability in net interest
income throughout  interest-rate cycles in order to maintain adequate liquidity.
The Company seeks to achieve this objective by maintaining the proper balance of
rate-sensitive earning assets and rate-sensitive  liabilities.  The relationship
of rate-sensitive earning assets to rate-sensitive  liabilities is the principal
factor in projecting  the effect that  fluctuating  interest  rates will have on
future net interest income. Rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities
are those that can be repriced to current market rates within a relatively short
time period.  Management  monitors the rate  sensitivity  of earning  assets and
interest-bearing  liabilities  over the entire  life of these  instruments,  but
places particular emphasis on the first year.

         Each  of  the  Company's   banking   subsidiaries  has  established  an
Asset/Liability Management Committee. These committees use a variety of tools to
analyze  interest-rate  sensitivity,  including a static gap  presentation and a
simulation  model. A static gap  presentation  reflects the  difference  between
total  interest-sensitive  assets and  liabilities  within certain time periods.
While the static gap is a widely used measure of interest rate  sensitivity,  it
is not,  in  management's  opinion,  the  best  indicator  of a  company's  true
sensitivity position.  Accordingly,  the Company's banking subsidiaries also use
an earnings  simulation  model that estimates the variations in interest  income
under  different  interest-rate  environments  to measure  and manage the bank's
short-term  interest-rate risk.  According to the model, as of December 31, 2005
the Company was positioned so that net interest  income would increase  $738,000
in the next twelve months if market interest rates were to gradually rise by 100
basis points over the same period. Conversely, net interest income would decline
$772,000 in the next twelve months if interest  rates were to gradually  decline
by  100  basis  points.  Computation  of  prospective  effects  of  hypothetical
interest-rate  changes are based on  numerous  assumptions,  including  relative
levels of market  interest rates and loan  prepayment,  and should not be relied
upon  as  indicative  of  actual  results.  Further,  the  computations  do  not
contemplate  any  actions  the  Company and its  customers  could  undertake  in
response to changes in interest rates.

         Additionally,  each  of the  Company's  banking  subsidiaries  measures
anticipated  changes in its economic  value of equity in order to ascertain  its
long-term interest rate risk. This is done by calculating the difference between
the theoretical market value of the bank's assets and liabilities and subjecting
the balance sheet to different interest-rate  environments to measure and manage
long-term interest rate risk.

         It is the responsibility of the Asset/Liability Committees to establish
parameters  for various  interest risk  measures,  to set  strategies to control

23

interest rate risk within those parameters,  to maintain adequate and stable net
interest  income,  and to direct the  implementation  of  tactics to  facilitate
achieving their objectives.

         Management is not aware of any known events or  uncertainties  that are
expected  to have or are  reasonably  likely  to have a  material  effect on the
Company's liquidity,  capital resources or results of operations.  Management is
not aware of any current recommendations by the regulatory authorities, which if
they were to be  implemented,  would  have a  material  effect on the  Company's
liquidity, capital resources or results of operations.

LIQUIDITY

         Liquidity management involves meeting the cash flow requirements of the
Company.  The Company's  liquidity position is primarily dependent upon its need
to respond to  short-term  demand for funds caused by  withdrawals  from deposit
accounts and upon the liquidity of its assets.  The Company's  primary liquidity
sources  include  cash and due from banks,  federal  funds sold and  "securities
available  for  sale." In  addition,  the  Company  (through  the Banks) has the
ability,  on a short-term basis, to borrow funds from the Federal Reserve System
and to purchase federal funds from other financial institutions. At December 31,
2005 the Banks, in aggregate,  had unused federal funds lines of credit totaling
$26,711,000 with various  correspondent banks. The Banks are also members of the
Federal  Home Loan Bank  System and have the  ability to borrow  both short- and
long-term  funds on a secured basis.  At December 31, 2005 The Peoples  National
Bank had  $5,000,000  in  long-term  borrowings  and  $3,500,000  in  short-term
borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta. At December 31, 2005, The
Peoples National Bank had unused  borrowing  capacity from the Federal Home Loan
Bank of Atlanta of $45,550,000.  At December 31, 2005,  Bank of Anderson,  N. A.
had no long-term  borrowings  and $6,500,000 in short-term  borrowings  from the
Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta. At December 31, 2005, Bank of Anderson, N. A.
had unused  borrowing  capacity  from the  Federal  Home Loan Bank of Atlanta of
$9,400,000.  Seneca National Bank had no long-term  borrowings and $2,500,000 in
short-term borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta at December 31,
2005.  Seneca National Bank had unused borrowing  capacity from the Federal Home
Loan Bank of Atlanta of $2,800,000  at December 31, 2005.  The Federal Home Loan
Bank requires that investment securities, qualifying mortgage loans and stock of
the Federal  Home Loan Bank owned by the Banks be pledged to secure any advances
from the  Federal  Home Loan  Bank.  The  unused  borrowing  capacity  currently
available  assumes that the Banks'  $1,649,000  investment  in Federal Home Loan
Bank stock as well as  certain  securities  and  qualifying  mortgages  would be
pledged to secure future  borrowings.  Management  believes that it could obtain
additional  borrowing  capacity  from the Federal Home Loan Bank by  identifying
additional qualifying collateral that could be pledged.

         Peoples  Bancorporation,  Inc., the parent holding company, has limited
liquidity  needs outside of those of its  subsidiaries.  Peoples  Bancorporation
requires  liquidity to pay limited  operating  expenses and cash dividends.  The

24

parent company's  liquidity needs are fulfilled through management fees assessed
each subsidiary bank and from dividends passed up to the parent company from The
Peoples National Bank.

         The Company plans to meet its future cash needs through the liquidation
of  temporary   investments,   maturities  or  sales  of  loans  and  investment
securities, generation of deposits, and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Company
management  believes its  liquidity  sources are adequate to meet its  operating
needs and does not know of any trends that may result in the Company's liquidity
materially increasing or decreasing.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

         The Company,  through the  operations of the Banks,  makes  contractual
commitments to extend credit in the ordinary course of its business  activities.
These  commitments are legally binding  agreements to lend money to customers of
the Banks at  predetermined  interest  rates for a specified  period of time. At
December  31,  2005 the  Banks  had  issued  commitments  to  extend  credit  of
$111,082,000  through various types of  arrangements,  described  further in the
table below.

         The commitments generally expire in one year. Past experience indicates
that many of these  commitments  to extend  credit  will  expire not fully used.
However, as described under LIQUIDITY, the Company believes that it has adequate
sources of liquidity to fund commitments that are drawn upon by the borrowers.

In  addition  to  commitments  to extend  credit,  the Banks also issue
letters of credit, which are assurances to a third party that it will not suffer
a loss if the bank's  customer fails to meet its  contractual  obligation to the
third party. At December 31, 2005, there was $6,742,000  committed under letters
of credit.  Past experience  indicates that many of these letters of credit will
expire unused.  However,  through its various sources of liquidity,  the Company
believes  that it will have the  necessary  resources to meet these  obligations
should the need arise. Various types of collateral secure most of the letters of
credit.  The Company  believes that the risk of loss  associated with letters of
credit is comparable  to the risk of loss  associated  with its loan  portfolio.
Moreover,  the fair value  associated  with any letters of credit  issued by the
Company is immaterial to the Company.

25

Until  October 15,  2004 and in years prior the Company  engaged in the
origination,  funding and sale of  residential  mortgage  loans and entered into
commitments on an individual  loan basis to both originate and sell  residential
mortgage loans, whereby the interest rate on the loan to the borrower and to the
end  purchaser  of  the  loan  was  determined   prior  to  funding  (rate  lock
commitments).  Beginning  October 16, 2004 the Company no longer  engaged in the
funding or selling of  residential  mortgage  loans.  The Company  continues  to
originate  residential  mortgage  loans,  which are  committed  to and funded by
unaffiliated third parties. Therefore, at December 31, 2005 and 2004 the Company
had no  commitments  outstanding to originate  residential  mortgage loans under
rate lock commitments and no commitments to sell mortgage loans to third parties
under rate lock commitments.

         Neither  the  Company nor its  subsidiaries  are  involved in any other
off-balance  sheet  arrangements or transactions  that could result in liquidity
needs or other commitments or significantly impact earnings. The Company did not
maintain any obligations  under  non-cancelable  operating  lease  agreements at
December 31, 2005.  Refer to Note 11 and Note 12 of the  Company's  consolidated
financial  statements  for  discussion  on  commitments  and  contingencies  and
financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk.

CAPITAL ADEQUACY AND RESOURCES

         The capital needs of the Company have been met through the retention of
earnings and from the proceeds of prior public stock offerings.

         For bank holding companies with total assets of more than $150 million,
such as the Company,  capital adequacy is evaluated on a consolidated basis. The
Company's  banking  subsidiaries  must  separately  meet  additional  regulatory
capital requirements.  Generally,  the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (the "Federal  Reserve Board") expects bank holding  companies to operate
above minimum  capital  levels.  The Office of the  Comptroller  of the Currency
("Comptroller")   regulations  establish  the  minimum  leverage  capital  ratio
requirement for national banks at 3% in the case of a national bank that has the
highest  regulatory  examination  rating  and is not  contemplating  significant
growth or expansion.  All other  national banks are expected to maintain a ratio
of at least 1% to 2% above the  stated  minimum.  Furthermore,  the  Comptroller
reserves the right to require  higher  capital  ratios in individual  banks on a
case-by-case  basis when, in its judgment,  additional capital is warranted by a
deterioration  of  financial  condition  or when high  levels of risk  otherwise
exist.  The Banks have not been notified that they must maintain  capital levels
above regulatory minimums.

26

The Company and Banks capital ratios are presented as follows:

                                                              December 31,
                                                              ------------
                                                         2005              2004
                                                        -----             -----
      Peoples Bancorporation, Inc.
        Risk-based capital ratio ....................   11.93%            12.35%
        Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets) ....   10.93%            11.27%
        Tier 1 capital (to average assets) ..........    8.97%             8.92%

      Peoples National Bank
        Risk-based capital ratio ....................   11.58%            12.61%
        Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets) ....   10.69%            11.57%
        Tier 1 capital (to average assets) ..........    8.93%             9.10%

      Bank of Anderson
        Risk-based capital ratio ....................   10.68%            10.26%
        Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets) ....    9.53%             9.19%
        Tier 1 capital (to average assets) ..........    7.08%             7.21%

      Seneca National Bank
        Risk-based capital ratio ....................   12.53%            12.59%
        Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets) ....   11.30%            11.34%
        Tier 1 capital (to average assets) ..........    8.52%             9.11%

         The  decreases in the  Company's  and Banks'  leverage  capital  ratios
resulted primarily from the growth in assets experienced during 2005.

         The Federal  Reserve  Board has adopted a risk-based  capital rule that
requires  bank holding  companies to have  qualifying  capital to  risk-weighted
assets of at least 8%, with at least 4% being  "Tier 1" capital.  Tier 1 capital
consists principally of common shareholders'  equity,  non-cumulative  preferred
stock,  qualifying  perpetual  preferred stock, and minority interests in equity
accounts of  consolidated  subsidiaries,  less  goodwill and certain  intangible
assets.  "Tier 2" (or  supplementary)  capital  consists  of  general  loan loss
reserves (subject to certain limitations),  certain types of preferred stock and
subordinated  debt,  and  certain  hybrid  capital  instruments  and other  debt
securities such as equity commitment notes. A bank holding company's  qualifying
capital base for purposes of its risk-based capital ratio consists of the sum of
its Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital  components,  provided that the maximum  amount of
Tier 2 capital that may be treated as  qualifying  capital is limited to 100% of
Tier 1 capital.  The Comptroller  imposes a similar  standard on national banks.
The regulatory  agencies  expect  national  banks and bank holding  companies to
operate above minimum  risk-based  capital  levels.  (See "Item 7,  Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation").

PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS

         Payment of  dividends  by the Company is within the  discretion  of its
Board of Directors  subject to certain  regulatory  requirements.  The Company's
primary  sources of funds with which to pay  dividends to  shareholders  are the
dividends it receives from its subsidiary  banks.  In 2005 The Peoples  National

27

Bank paid  dividends  of  $1,187,000  to the  Company,  which in turn paid those
dividends to its shareholders,  compared to $1,051,000 in 2004. Bank of Anderson
and Seneca National Bank paid no dividends to the Company in 2005 or 2004.

         Payment  of   dividends   by  the  Banks  is   subject  to   regulatory
restrictions. If a national bank's surplus fund equals the amount of its capital
stock, the directors may declare quarterly,  semi-annual or annual dividends out
of the bank's  net  profits,  after  deduction  of losses and bad debts.  If the
surplus fund does not equal the amount of capital  stock,  a dividend may not be
paid until  one-tenth of the bank's net profits of the  preceding  half year, in
the case of quarterly or semi-annual  dividends,  or the preceding two years, in
the case of an annual dividend, are transferred to the surplus fund.

         The  approval  of the  Comptroller  is  required  if the  total  of all
dividends declared by a national bank in any calendar year will exceed the total
of its retained net profits of that year  combined with its retained net profits
for the  preceding two years,  less any required  transfers to surplus or a fund
for the retirement of any preferred stock. The Comptroller's regulations provide
that  provisions  for possible  credit losses cannot be added back to net income
and  charge-offs  cannot be deducted from net income in calculating the level of
net profits available for the payment of dividends.

         The payment of  dividends  by the Banks may also be affected or limited
by other factors,  such as the  requirements to maintain  adequate capital above
regulatory guidelines.  If, in the opinion of the Comptroller,  a bank under its
jurisdiction  is  engaged  in or is about to  engage  in an  unsafe  or  unsound
practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include
the  payment of  dividends),  the  Comptroller  may  require,  after  notice and
hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such practice. The Comptroller has
indicated that paying  dividends that deplete a national  bank's capital base to
an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. The Federal
Reserve, the Comptroller and the FDIC have issued policy statements that provide
that  bank  holding  companies  and  insured  banks  should  generally  only pay
dividends out of current operating earnings.

MONETARY POLICIES AND EFFECT OF INFLATION

         The earnings of bank holding  companies are affected by the policies of
regulatory authorities,  including the Federal Reserve Board, in connection with
its  regulation of the money  supply.  Various  methods  employed by the Federal
Reserve Board include open market  operations  in U. S.  Government  securities,
changes in the discount  rate on member bank  borrowings  and changes in reserve
requirements  against  member bank  deposits.  These methods are used in varying
combinations  to  influence  overall  growth  and  distribution  of bank  loans,
investments  and deposits,  and their use may also affect interest rates charged
on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board
have had a significant  effect on the operating  results of commercial  banks in
the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future.

28

The consolidated  financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with accounting  principles  generally accepted in the United States of America,
which require the measurement of financial position and results of operations in
terms of historical  dollars,  without  consideration of changes in the relative
purchasing  power over time due to  inflation.  Unlike  companies  in most other
industries,   virtually  all  of  the  assets  and   liabilities   of  financial
institutions are monetary in nature. As a result,  interest rates generally have
a more significant effect on a financial institution's performance than does the
effect  of  inflation.  Interest  rates do not  necessarily  change  in the same
magnitude as do the prices of goods and services.

         While the effect of inflation  on banks is normally not as  significant
as is its influence on those businesses that have large investments in plant and
inventories,  it does have some effect. During periods of high inflation,  there
are  normally  corresponding  increases  in the money  supply,  and  banks  will
normally experience  above-average growth in assets,  loans and deposits.  Also,
general  increases in the prices of goods and services  will result in increased
operating expenses. Inflation that affects the Banks' customers may also have an
indirect affect on the Banks.

CORRESPONDENT BANKING

         Correspondent banking involves the provision of services by one bank to
another bank,  which cannot provide that service for itself,  or chooses not to,
from an  economic,  regulatory  or  practical  standpoint.  The  Banks  purchase
correspondent services offered by larger banks, including check collections, the
sale and purchase of federal funds, security  safekeeping,  investment services,
over-line  and  liquidity  loan   participations   and  sales  of  loans  to  or
participations with correspondent banks.

         The Banks have the option to sell loan  participations to correspondent
banks with respect to loans that exceed the Banks' lending limits. Management of
the Banks has  established  correspondent  banking  relationships  with Wachovia
Bank, N. A., Charlotte,  North Carolina; The Bankers Bank, Atlanta, Georgia; and
Community  Bankers Bank,  Midlothian,  Virginia.  As  compensation  for services
provided by  correspondents,  the Banks may maintain  certain balances with such
correspondents in non-interest bearing accounts.

DATA PROCESSING

         The Company has a  data-processing  department,  which  performs a full
range of  data-processing  services  for the  Banks.  Such  services  include an
automated  general  ledger,   deposit  accounting,   loan  accounting  and  data
processing.

29

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

         The Company and the Banks  operate in a highly  regulated  environment,
and  their  business   activities  are  governed  by  statute,   regulation  and
administrative  policies. To the extent that the following information describes
statutory  and  regulatory  provisions,  it is  qualified  in  its  entirety  by
reference to such  statutes and  regulations.  Any change in  applicable  law or
regulation  may have a material  effect on the  business  of the Company and the
Banks.

General

         The business activities of the Company and Banks are closely supervised
by a number of federal regulatory agencies,  including the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board"), the Comptroller of the
Currency (the "Comptroller") and the Federal Deposit Insurance  Corporation (the
"FDIC").  As a bank  holding  company,  the Company is required to file with the
Federal  Reserve  Board an annual  report of its  operations  at the end of each
fiscal year and such  additional  information  as the Federal  Reserve Board may
require  pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act. The Federal Reserve Board may
also make examinations of the Company and any subsidiaries.

         The Company is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board under the Federal
Bank Holding  Company Act of 1956,  as amended (the  "BHCA").  Under the BHCA, a
bank  holding  company is generally  prohibited  from  acquiring  control of any
company  that is not a bank and from  engaging  in any  business  other than the
business  of banking or  managing  and  controlling  banks.  However,  there are
certain activities which have been identified by the Federal Reserve Board to be
so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident  thereto,  and are thus
permissible  for bank holding  companies,  including the  following  activities:
acting as an investment or financial advisor to subsidiaries and certain outside
companies; leasing personal and real property or acting as a broker with respect
thereto;  providing  management  consulting  advice to  nonaffiliated  banks and
non-bank  depository  institutions;  operating  collection  agencies  and credit
bureaus; acting as a futures commission merchant;  providing data processing and
data  transmission  services;  acting as an insurance agent or underwriter  with
respect  to limited  types of  insurance;  performing  real  estate  appraisals;
arranging   commercial  real  estate  equity  financing;   providing  securities
brokerage  services;  and  underwriting and dealing in obligations of the United
States,  the states and their  political  subdivisions.  The BHCA also  requires
every bank holding  company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal  Reserve
Board before  acquiring  more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank or all or
substantially  all of the assets of a bank, and before merging or  consolidating
with another bank holding company.

         As discussed below under the caption "Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act," Congress
has adopted  extensive  changes in the laws  governing  the  financial  services
industry.  Among the changes  adopted  are  creation  of the  financial  holding
company,  a new type of bank holding  company  with powers that  greatly  exceed

30

those of standard holding companies, and creation of the financial subsidiary, a
subsidiary that can be used by national banks to engage in many, though not all,
of the same activities in which a financial holding company may engage. Although
the Company  elected to become a financial  holding company as of June 23, 2000,
neither  the  Company  nor the Banks has yet made a decision  as to how to adapt
this legislation to their use. Accordingly,  the following discussion relates to
the  supervisory  and  regulatory  provisions  that apply to the Company and the
Banks as they currently operate.

         The Company also is subject to limited regulation by the South Carolina
State Board of Financial  Institutions  (the "State Board").  Consequently,  the
Company  must give  notice  to, or receive  the  approval  of,  the State  Board
pursuant to applicable law and regulations  prior to engaging in the acquisition
of South Carolina banking  institutions or holding  companies.  The Company also
may be required to file with the State Board  periodic  reports  with respect to
its financial  condition and operation,  management and inter-company  relations
between the Company and its subsidiaries.

Obligations of the Company to its Subsidiary Banks

         A number of obligations  and  restrictions  are imposed on bank holding
companies  and their  depository  institution  subsidiaries  by Federal  law and
regulatory  policy that are designed to reduce  potential  loss  exposure to the
depositors of such  depository  institutions  and to the FDIC insurance funds in
the event the depository  institution  is in danger of becoming  insolvent or is
insolvent.  For example, under the policy of the Federal Reserve, a bank holding
company is required to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary
depository  institutions and to commit resources to support such institutions in
circumstances  where it might not do so absent such  policy.  In  addition,  the
"cross-guarantee"  provisions of the Federal  Deposit  Insurance Act, as amended
("FDIA"),  require  insured  depository  institutions  under  common  control to
reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered or reasonably anticipated by either the
Savings  Association  Insurance Fund ("SAIF") or the Bank Insurance Fund ("BIF")
of the  FDIC  as a  result  of the  default  of a  commonly  controlled  insured
depository  institution or for any assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly
controlled  insured  depository  institution in danger of default.  The FDIC may
decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provisions if it determines that a waiver
is in the best  interest  of the SAIF or the BIF or both.  The FDIC's  claim for
damages  is  superior  to  claims  of  shareholders  of the  insured  depository
institution  or its holding  company but is subordinate to claims of depositors,
secured  creditors and holders of subordinated  debt (other than  affiliates) of
the commonly controlled insured depository institutions.

         The FDIA also provides that amounts  received from the  liquidation  or
other resolution of any insured  depository  institution by any receiver must be
distributed (after payment of secured claims) to pay the deposit  liabilities of
the  institution  prior to payment  of any other  general  or  unsecured  senior
liability,   subordinated  liability,  general  creditor  or  shareholder.  This
provision gives depositors a preference over general and subordinated  creditors
and  shareholders  in the event a receiver is appointed to distribute the assets
of any of the Banks.

31

Any capital  loans by a bank holding  company to any of its  subsidiary
banks are  subordinate  in right of payment  to  deposits  and to certain  other
indebtedness of such subsidiary  bank. In the event of a bank holding  company's
bankruptcy,  any  commitment  by the bank  holding  company  to a  federal  bank
regulatory  agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary  bank will be assumed
by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

Certain Transactions by the Company with its Affiliates

         Federal  law   regulates   transactions   among  the  Company  and  its
affiliates,  including  the  amount of the  Banks'  loans to or  investments  in
nonbank affiliates and the amount of advances to third parties collateralized by
securities of an affiliate.  Further,  a bank holding company and its affiliates
are prohibited  from engaging in certain tie-in  arrangements in connection with
any extension of credit, lease or sale of property or furnishing of services.

Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Bank Holding Companies and National Banks

         Both the  Company  and the  Banks are  subject  to  regulatory  capital
requirements  imposed by the  Federal  Reserve  Board and the  Comptroller  (see
"CAPITAL  ADEQUACY AND  RESOURCES").  Failure to meet capital  guidelines  could
subject  the  Banks  to  a  variety  of  enforcement  remedies,   including  the
termination  of  deposit  insurance  by  the  FDIC  and  placing  the  Banks  in
receivership.

         A joint rule promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the
Comptroller provides that the banking agencies must include in their evaluations
of a bank's  capital  adequacy an  assessment of the exposure to declines in the
economic  value of the bank's  capital  due to changes in  interest  rates.  The
agencies have issued  statements that describe the process the banking  agencies
will use to measure and assess the  exposure of a bank's net  economic  value to
changes in interest  rates.  Another  joint rule  promulgated  by the  financial
institution  regulators  further provides that the risk-based capital guidelines
must  take   account  of   concentration   of  credit   risk  and  the  risk  of
non-traditional  activities.  The rule explicitly  identifies  concentration  of
credit risk and the risk arising from other sources, as well as an institution's
overall capital adequacy.

         Bank  regulators  continue to indicate  their  desire to raise  capital
requirements  applicable to banking  organizations  beyond their current levels.
However,  management of the Company is unable to predict whether and when higher
capital  requirements  would be imposed  and,  if so, at what levels and on what
schedule.

         The  Company  and each of the Banks  exceeded  all  applicable  capital
requirements at December 31, 2005.

32

Payment of Dividends

         The Company is a legal entity  separate  and  distinct  from the Banks.
Most of the  revenues  of the  Company  are  expected to continue to result from
dividends  paid to the Company by the Banks.  There are statutory and regulatory
requirements  applicable to the payment of dividends by subsidiary banks as well
as by the Company to its shareholders. See "PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS."

Regulation of the Banks

         As  national  banks,  the  Banks  are  subject  to  supervision  by the
Comptroller  and, to a limited  extent,  the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board.
With respect to  expansion,  the Banks may  establish  branch  offices  anywhere
within  the State of South  Carolina.  In  addition,  the Banks are  subject  to
various  other state and federal  laws and  regulations,  including  state usury
laws, laws relating to fiduciaries,  consumer credit and laws relating to branch
banking.  The Banks' loan  operations  are subject to certain  federal  consumer
credit laws and regulations promulgated thereunder,  including,  but not limited
to; the federal  Truth-In-Lending  Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to
consumer  borrowers;  the Home  Mortgage  Disclosure  Act,  requiring  financial
institutions to provide certain  information  concerning their mortgage lending;
the  Equal  Credit  Opportunity  Act  and  the  Fair  Housing  Act,  prohibiting
discrimination on the basis of certain  prohibited  factors in extending credit;
and the Fair Debt Collection  Act,  governing the manner in which consumer debts
may be collected by collection agencies. The deposit operations of the Banks are
subject to the Truth in Savings Act,  requiring certain  disclosures about rates
paid on savings accounts; the Expedited Funds Availability Act, which deals with
disclosure of the availability of funds deposited in accounts and the collection
and return of checks by banks; the Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes
a duty to maintain certain confidentiality of consumer financial records and the
Electronic  Funds Transfer Act and  regulations  promulgated  thereunder,  which
govern  automatic   deposits  to  and  withdrawals  from  deposit  accounts  and
customers'  rights and  liabilities  arising  from the use of  automated  teller
machines and other electronic  banking  services.  The Banks are also subject to
the Fair Credit Reporting Act, governing the use and provision of information to
credit  reporting  agencies;  the Bank Secrecy Act,  dealing  with,  among other
things, the reporting of certain currency transactions; and the USA Patriot Act,
dealing with,  among other things,  requiring  the  establishment  of anti-money
laundering  programs including  standards for verifying customer  information at
account opening.

         The  Banks  are  also  subject  to the  requirements  of the  Community
Reinvestment  Act (the  "CRA").  The CRA imposes on  financial  institutions  an
affirmative  and  ongoing  obligation  to meet the credit  needs of their  local
communities,  including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods,  consistent with
the safe and sound operation of those institutions. Each financial institution's
actual performance in meeting community credit needs is evaluated as part of the
examination process, and also is considered in evaluating mergers,  acquisitions
and applications to open a branch or facility.

33

Loans and  extensions of credit by national  banks are subject to legal
lending  limitations.  Under  federal law, a national  bank may grant  unsecured
loans and extensions of credit in an amount up to 15% of its unimpaired capital,
surplus and  allowance for loan losses to any person or entity.  In addition,  a
national bank may grant loans and  extensions of credit to a single person up to
10% of its unimpaired capital,  surplus and allowance for loan losses,  provided
that the transactions are fully secured by readily marketable  collateral having
a  market  value  determined  by  reliable  and  continuously   available  price
quotations.  This 10%  limitation is separate  from, and in addition to, the 15%
limitation  for unsecured  loans.  Loans and extensions of credit may exceed the
general  lending  limits if they qualify under one of several  exceptions.  Such
exceptions include,  among others, certain loans or extensions of credit arising
from the  discount of  commercial  or business  paper,  the purchase of banker's
acceptances,  loans  secured  by  documents  of title,  loans  secured  by U. S.
obligations and loans to or guaranteed by the federal government.

         As national banks, the Banks are subject to examinations and reviews by
the Comptroller.  These  examinations  are typically  completed on site, and the
Banks are subject to off-site  review as well. The Banks also submit to the FDIC
quarterly  reports  of  condition,  as well as such  additional  reports  as the
national banking laws may require.

FDIC Insurance Assessments

         The Banks are required to pay semiannual assessments to the FDIC. Since
January 1997, the assessments imposed on all FDIC deposits for deposit insurance
has an  effective  rate  ranging  from 0 to 27 basis  points per $100 of insured
deposits,  depending on the institution's capital position and other supervisory
factors.  Legislation  enacted in 1996 also requires that both  SAIF-insured and
BIF-insured  deposits  pay a pro  rata  portion  of  the  interest  due  on  the
obligations issued by the Financing Corporation ("FICO"). The FICO assessment is
adjusted  quarterly to reflect changes in the assessment bases of the respective
funds based on quarterly Call Report and Thrift  Financial  Report  submissions.
The  Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Reform Act of 2005 will  change the manner and
amount of insurance  assessments beginning in 2006. The changes are not expected
to have a material effect on the Banks in 2006.

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations

         Prompt  Corrective  Action.  The federal  banking  agencies  have broad
powers under  current  federal law to take prompt  corrective  action to resolve
problems of insured depository institutions.  The extent of these powers depends
upon whether the  institutions in question are "well  capitalized,"  "adequately
capitalized,"    "undercapitalized,"    "significantly    undercapitalized"   or
"critically undercapitalized."

         A bank that is "undercapitalized"  becomes subject to provisions of the
FDIA:   restricting  payment  of  capital  distributions  and  management  fees;
requiring  the FDIC to  monitor  the  condition  of the  bank;  prohibiting  the
acceptance of employee benefit plan deposits;  requiring  submission by the bank
of a capital  restoration plan;  restricting the growth of the bank's assets and

34

requiring  prior  approval  of  certain  expansion  proposals.  A bank  that  is
"significantly undercapitalized" is also subject to restrictions on compensation
paid  to  senior  management  of  the  bank,  and a  bank  that  is  "critically
undercapitalized"  is further  subject to  restrictions on the activities of the
bank and restrictions on payments of subordinated  debt of the bank. The purpose
of these  provisions is to require banks with less than adequate  capital to act
quickly to restore their capital and to have the FDIC move promptly to take over
banks that are unwilling or unable to take such steps.

         Brokered Deposits.  Under current FDIC regulations,  "well capitalized"
banks may accept brokered deposits without restriction, "adequately capitalized"
banks may accept  brokered  deposits  with a waiver  from the FDIC  (subject  to
certain  restrictions on payment of rates), while  "undercapitalized"  banks may
not accept brokered  deposits.  The regulations  provide that the definitions of
"well capitalized", "adequately capitalized" and "undercapitalized" are the same
as the  definitions  adopted by the agencies to implement the prompt  corrective
action provisions described in the previous paragraph.

Interstate Banking

         Under the Riegel-Neal  Interstate Banking and Branching  Efficiency Act
of 1994, the Company, and any other adequately  capitalized bank holding company
located in South  Carolina can acquire a bank located in any other state,  and a
bank  holding  company  located  outside  South  Carolina  can acquire any South
Carolina-based  bank, in either case subject to certain deposit  percentages and
other restrictions. The legislation also provides that in any state that has not
previously  elected to prohibit  out-of-state  banks from  operating  interstate
branches within its territory,  adequately  capitalized and managed bank holding
companies can consolidate  their  multi-state bank operations into a single bank
subsidiary and branch interstate through  acquisitions.  De novo branching by an
out-of-state  bank is  permitted  only if the laws of the host  state  expressly
permit it. The authority of a bank to establish,  and operate  branches within a
state continue to be subject to applicable  state branching laws. South Carolina
law was amended effective July 1, 1996, to permit such interstate branching, but
not de novo branching by an out-of-state bank.

         The  Riegel-Neal  Act,  together  with  legislation  adopted  in  South
Carolina,  resulted in a number of South  Carolina banks being acquired by large
out-of-state  bank  holding  companies.  Size  gives the  larger  banks  certain
advantages  in competing for business from larger  customers.  These  advantages
include  higher  lending limits and the ability to offer services in other areas
of South  Carolina and the region.  As a result,  the Company does not generally
attempt to compete  for the  banking  relationships  of large  corporations  and
businesses, but concentrates its efforts on small to medium-sized businesses and
on individuals.  The Company believes it has competed effectively in this market
segment by offering quality, personal service.

35

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act

         The  Gramm-Leach-Bliley  Act (the  "Act"),  which  makes it easier  for
affiliations  between banks,  securities  firms and insurance  companies to take
place, became effective in March 2000. The Act removes  Depression-era  barriers
that had separated banks and securities  firms, and seeks to protect the privacy
of consumers' financial information.

         Under  provisions of the  legislation  and  regulations  adopted by the
appropriate regulators, banks, securities firms and insurance companies are able
to structure new affiliations  through a holding company  structure or through a
financial subsidiary. The legislation created a new type of bank holding company
called a "financial  holding  company" which has powers much more extensive than
those of standard holding companies.  These expanded powers include authority to
engage in "financial activities," which are activities that are (1) financial in
nature;  (2)  incidental  to  activities  that are  financial in nature;  or (3)
complementary  to a  financial  activity  and that do not  impose  a safety  and
soundness risk. Significantly,  the permitted financial activities for financial
holding  companies include authority to engage in merchant banking and insurance
activities,  including insurance portfolio investing. A bank holding company can
qualify as a financial holding company and expand the services it offers only if
all of its subsidiary depository institutions are well managed, well capitalized
and  have  received  a  rating  of   "satisfactory"   on  their  last  Community
Reinvestment Act examination.

         The  legislation  also  created  another  new type of  entity  called a
"financial subsidiary." A financial subsidiary may be used by a national bank or
a group of national banks to engage in many of the same activities permitted for
a financial holding company, though several of these activities,  including real
estate development or investment,  insurance or annuity underwriting,  insurance
portfolio  investing and merchant  banking,  are reserved for financial  holding
companies.  A bank's  investment  in a financial  subsidiary  affects the way in
which the bank calculates its regulatory capital, and the assets and liabilities
of financial  subsidiaries  may not be consolidated  with those of the bank. The
bank must also be certain that its risk  management  procedures  are adequate to
protect it from  financial and  operational  risks created both by itself and by
any financial subsidiary.  Further, the bank must establish policies to maintain
the separate corporate  identities of the bank and its financial  subsidiary and
to prevent each from becoming liable for the obligations of the other.

         The Act also  established  the  concept  of  "functional  supervision,"
meaning that  similar  activities  should be  regulated  by the same  regulator.
Accordingly,  the Act spells out the regulatory authority of the bank regulatory
agencies,  the Securities and Exchange Commission and state insurance regulators
so that each type of activity is  supervised by a regulator  with  corresponding
expertise.  The Federal  Reserve Board is intended to be an umbrella  supervisor
with the  authority  to  require a bank  holding  company or  financial  holding
company  or any  subsidiary  of  either  to  file  reports  as to its  financial
condition,  risk management  systems,  transactions with depository  institution
subsidiaries  and  affiliates,  and compliance  with any federal law that it has
authority to enforce.

36

Although  the  Act  reaffirmed  that  states  are  the  regulators  for
insurance  activities of all persons,  including  federally chartered banks, the
Act  prohibits  states  from  preventing   depository   institutions  and  their
affiliates from conducting insurance activities.

         The Act also  established  a minimum  federal  standard  of  privacy to
protect the confidentiality of a consumer's  personal financial  information and
gives the  consumer  the  power to choose  how  financial  institutions  may use
personal  financial  information.  The privacy  provisions  of the Act have been
implemented by regulations of various federal agencies.

         The  Act  and  the  regulations  adopted  pursuant  to the  Act  create
opportunities  for the Company to offer  expanded  services to  customers in the
future. The Company elected to become a financial holding company effective June
23, 2000, but it has not yet used that status to engage in any  activities  that
are not also permissible for bank holding  companies.  Furthermore,  the Company
has not yet determined  what the nature of the expanded  services it could offer
might be or when the Company  might find it feasible to offer them.  The Act has
increased competition from larger financial institutions that are currently more
capable  than the Company of taking  advantage of the  opportunity  to provide a
broader range of services.  However,  the Company  continues to believe that its
commitment to providing  high quality,  personalized  service to customers  will
permit it to remain competitive in its market area.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

         The  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act was  signed  into  law on July 30,  2002,  and
mandated  extensive reforms and requirements for public  companies.  The SEC has
adopted   extensive  new  regulations   pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  the
Sarbanes-Oxley  Act. The  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act and the SEC's new regulations have
increased  the  Company's  cost of  doing  business,  particularly  its fees for
internal  and  external  audit  services  and  legal  services,  and the law and
regulations  are  expected to continue to do so.  However,  the Company does not
believe that it will be affected by  Sarbanes-Oxley  and the new SEC regulations
in ways that are materially different or more onerous than those of other public
companies of similar size and in similar businesses.

Legislative Proposals

         Proposed  legislation that could  significantly  affect the business of
banking is  introduced  in Congress and the General  Assembly of South  Carolina
from time to time. Management of the Company cannot predict the future course of
such  legislative  proposals or their impact on the Company and the Banks should
they be adopted.

EMPLOYEES

         The Company  and the Banks  employed  129  full-time  and 27  part-time
persons as of December 31, 2005. Management believes that its employee relations
are good.

37

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

         The executive officers of the Company are R. Riggie Ridgeway, President
and Chief  Executive  Officer;  William B. West,  Executive  Vice  President and
Treasurer;  Robert E. Dye, Jr., Senior Vice President,  Chief Financial  Officer
and Secretary; and Patricia A. Jensen, Senior Vice President and Controller.  In
addition, L. Andrew Westbrook, III, is the President and Chief Executive Officer
of the  Company's  two largest  subsidiaries  and,  as such,  is deemed to be an
executive  officer  by the Board for 1934 Act  reporting  purposes.  Information
about all of the executive  officers  except  Patricia A. Jensen,  and L. Andrew
Westbrook, III, is set forth in Item 10, Part III of this report on Form 10-K.

         Patricia A.  Jensen,  age 52, was  promoted  to Senior  Vice  President
during  2003.  Prior to that time,  she served as Vice  President of the Company
since its  formation  in 1992.  Mrs.  Jensen  has served as Vice  President  and
Cashier of The Peoples  National Bank since August 1986.  She has also served as
Cashier of Bank of  Anderson,  N.A. and Seneca  National  Bank since April 2005.
Prior to joining The Peoples National Bank, Mrs. Jensen served as Vice President
of First Union National Bank.

         L. Andrew  Westbrook,  III, age 43, has served as  President  and Chief
Executive  Officer  of The  Peoples  National  Bank  since  April  2005,  and as
President and Chief Executive Officer of Bank of Anderson,  N. A., since January
2006. Prior to that, Mr. Westbrook served as Senior Vice President and City/Area
Executive of Branch Banking & Trust Company (BB&T) in Greenville, South Carolina
from 2002 to 2005 and Senior Vice  President and City/Area  Executive of BB&T in
Spartanburg,  South  Carolina  from  1993 to 2002.  Mr.  Westbrook  serves  as a
Director of The Peoples National Bank and Bank of Anderson, N. A.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

         The  Company  electronically  files with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  ("SEC") its annual  reports on Form 10-K,  its quarterly  reports on
Form 10-Q, its periodic  reports on Form 8-K,  amendments to those reports filed
or furnished  pursuant to Section 13(a) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934
(the "1934 Act"),  and proxy  materials  pursuant to Section 14 of the 1934 Act.
The SEC maintains a site on the Internet at www.sec.gov  that contains  reports,
proxy and information  statements,  and other information regarding issuers that
file  electronically with the SEC. The Company also makes its filings available,
free of charge,  upon written  request to Ms.  Patricia A.  Jensen,  Senior Vice
President,  Peoples  Bancorporation,  Inc., 1818 East Main Street, Easley, South
Carolina 29640.

38

ITEM 1 A.  RISK FACTORS

                          Risks Related to Our Business

         We depend on the services of a number of key  personnel,  and a loss of
any of those  personnel  could  disrupt  our  operations  and  result in reduced
revenues.

         The success of our  business  depends to a great extent on our customer
relationships. Our growth and development to date have depended in large part on
the efforts of our senior  management  team. A number of these  senior  officers
have  primary  contact  with  our  customers  and  are  extremely  important  in
maintaining  personalized  relationships with our customer base, a key aspect of
our business  strategy,  and in increasing our market  presence.  The unexpected
loss of  services  of one or more of these key  employees  could have a material
adverse effect on our operations and possibly  result in reduced  revenues if we
were unable to find suitable replacements promptly.

         We may be unable to successfully manage our sustained growth.

         Our future  profitability  will depend in part on our ability to manage
growth  successfully.  Our ability to manage growth  successfully will depend on
our  ability to  maintain  cost  controls  and asset  quality  while  attracting
additional loans and deposits, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as
economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we grow too quickly and are not
able to control  costs and  maintain  asset  quality,  growth  could  materially
adversely affect our financial performance.

         Our continued pace of growth or regulatory  requirements may require us
to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available
when it is needed or be available on favorable terms.

         We  anticipate  that our current  capital  resources  will  satisfy our
capital  requirements for the foreseeable future.  Nevertheless,  we may need to
raise  additional  capital to support  additional  growth or to meet  regulatory
requirements.  Our ability to raise additional  capital, if needed, will depend,
among other things, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are
outside our control,  and on our  financial  condition  and  performance.  If we
cannot raise additional  capital on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to
further expand our operations  through internal growth and acquisitions could be
limited.

         If our loan customers do not pay us as they have  contracted to, we may
experience losses.

         Our principal revenue producing  business is making loans. If the loans
are not repaid, we will suffer losses.  Even though we maintain an allowance for
loan losses, the amount of the allowance may not be adequate to cover the losses
we  experience.  We attempt to  mitigate  this risk by a thorough  review of the
creditworthiness of loan customers.  Nevertheless, there is risk that our credit
evaluations  will  prove  to be  inaccurate  due  to  changed  circumstances  or
otherwise.

39

Our business is concentrated in the Upstate area of South Carolina, and
a downturn in the economy of the area,  a decline in area real estate  values or
other events in our market area may adversely affect our business.

         Substantially  all of our  business is located in the  Upstate  area of
South Carolina.  As a result, our financial  condition and results of operations
may be  affected  by changes  in the  Upstate  economy.  A  prolonged  period of
economic  recession,  a general decline in real estate values in our market area
or other  adverse  economic  conditions  in the Upstate and South  Carolina  may
result in decreases in demand for our services, increases in nonpayment of loans
and  decreases in the value of  collateral  securing  loans,  which could have a
material adverse effect on our business,  future prospects,  financial condition
or results of operations.

         We face strong competition from larger,  more established  competitors,
which may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably.

         We encounter strong competition from financial  institutions  operating
in the Upstate area of South Carolina.  In the conduct of our business,  we also
compete with credit unions,  insurance companies,  money market mutual funds and
other financial  institutions,  some of which are not subject to the same degree
of regulation as we are. Many of these  competitors have  substantially  greater
resources  and  lending  abilities  than we have  and  offer  services,  such as
investment  banking,  trust and  international  banking  services that we do not
provide.  We believe  that we have  competed,  and will  continue  to be able to
compete,  effectively with these institutions because of our experienced bankers
and  personalized  service,  as well as through  loan  participations  and other
strategies and techniques. However, we cannot promise that we are correct in our
belief.  If we are wrong,  our ability to operate  profitably  may be negatively
affected.

         Technological  changes  affect  our  business,  and we may  have  fewer
resources than many of our competitors to invest in technological improvements.

         The   financial   services   industry   continues   to  undergo   rapid
technological  changes  with  frequent  introductions  of new  technology-driven
products and services.  In addition to enabling financial  institutions to serve
clients better, the effective use of technology may increase  efficiency and may
enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in
part,  upon our ability to use technology to provide  products and services that
provide  convenience to customers and to create  additional  efficiencies in our
operations.  We may need to make significant  additional capital  investments in
technology in the future,  and we may not be able to  effectively  implement new
technology-driven   products  and  services.   Many  of  our  competitors   have
substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements.

40

Our  profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in interest
rates and economic conditions.

         Our  profitability  depends upon our net interest income,  which is the
difference between interest earned on our interest-bearing assets, such as loans
and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities,
such as deposits  and  borrowings.  Our net  interest  income will be  adversely
affected  if market  interest  rates  change  such that the  interest  we pay on
deposits and borrowings  increases  faster than the interest earned on loans and
investments.  Interest rates, and  consequently  our results of operations,  are
affected by general  economic  conditions  (domestic and foreign) and fiscal and
monetary policies.  Monetary and fiscal policies may materially affect the level
and direction of interest  rates.  Beginning in June 2004 through  January 2006,
the Federal  Reserve has raised  rates  fourteen  times for a total  increase of
3.50%.  Increases in interest  rates  generally  decrease  the market  values of
interest-bearing  investments and loans held and therefore may adversely  affect
our liquidity and earnings.  Increased  interest rates also generally affect the
volume of  mortgage  loan  originations,  the  resale  value of  mortgage  loans
originated  for resale,  and the ability of borrowers to perform under  existing
loans of all types.

                          Risks Related to Our Industry

         We are  subject to  governmental  regulation,  which  could  change and
increase our cost of doing business or have an adverse effect on our business.

         We  operate  in  a  highly  regulated   industry  and  are  subject  to
examination,  supervision  and  comprehensive  regulation by various federal and
state  agencies.  Most of this  regulation is designed to protect our depositors
and other customers, not our shareholders.  Our compliance with the requirements
of these agencies is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our
activities,   including,   payment  of  dividends,   mergers  and  acquisitions,
investments,  loans and interest rates charged, and locations of offices. We are
also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal authorities and
our failure to meet those guidelines  could result in limitations  being imposed
on our  activities  or,  in an  extreme  case,  in our  bank's  being  placed in
receivership.  We  have  also  recently  been  subjected  to the  extensive  and
expensive  requirements imposed on public companies by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 and related regulations.

         The laws and  regulations  applicable  to the  banking  industry  could
change at any time,  and we cannot  predict  the impact of these  changes on our
business or profitability.  Because  government  regulation  greatly affects the
business  and  financial  results  of all  commercial  banks  and  bank  holding
companies,  our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate
profitably.

         We are  susceptible  to changes in monetary  policy and other  economic
factors, which may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably.

         Changes in governmental,  economic and monetary policies may affect the
ability of our bank to attract  deposits  and make loans.  The rates of interest
payable  on  deposits  and  chargeable  on loans are  affected  by  governmental

41

regulation  and fiscal policy as well as by national,  state and local  economic
conditions.  All of these  matters  are  outside of our  control  and affect our
ability to operate profitably.

                        Risks Related to Our Common Stock

         Our  common  stock has a  limited  trading  market,  which may make the
prompt execution of sale transactions difficult.

         Our  common  stock  is not  traded  on any  exchange  or on the  Nasdaq
National Market System. Although our common stock is traded over-the-counter and
quotations of bid and ask information  are provided by the National  Association
of Securities Dealers, Inc.'s Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board, no active trading
market has developed and none is expected to develop in the foreseeable  future.
Accordingly,  if you wish to sell shares you may  experience  a delay or have to
sell them at a lower price in order to sell them promptly, if at all.

         We may issue additional securities, which could affect the market price
of our common stock and dilute your ownership.

         We may issue  additional  securities to raise  additional  capital,  to
support growth, or to make acquisitions. Sales of a substantial number of shares
of our common  stock,  or the  perception  by the market  that those sales could
occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could make
it more difficult for us to raise capital through the sale of common stock or to
use our common stock in future acquisitions.

         There is no  guarantee  we will  continue to pay cash  dividends in the
future at the same or any level.

         Declaration  and payment of dividends are within the  discretion of our
board of directors.  Our banks are currently our only source of funds with which
to pay cash dividends. Our banks' declaration and payment of future dividends to
us are  within  the  discretion  of the  banks'  boards  of  directors,  and are
dependent  upon  their  earnings,  financial  condition,  their  need to  retain
earnings  for use in the business and any other  pertinent  factors.  The banks'
payment of dividends is also subject to various regulatory  requirements and the
ability of the banks' regulators to forbid or limit their payment of dividends.

         Provisions in our articles of incorporation  and South Carolina law may
discourage  or prevent  takeover  attempts,  and these  provisions  may have the
effect of reducing the market price for our stock.

         Our articles of incorporation  include several provisions that may have
the  effect  of  discouraging  or  preventing  hostile  takeover  attempts,  and
therefore  of  making  the  removal  of  incumbent  management  difficult.   The
provisions  include  staggered terms for our board of directors and requirements
of supermajority  votes to approve certain business  transactions.  In addition,
South Carolina law contains  several  provisions that may make it more difficult
for a third party to acquire  control of us without the approval of our board of

42

directors,  and may make it more  difficult  or  expensive  for a third party to
acquire a majority of our  outstanding  common  stock.  To the extent that these
provisions are effective in discouraging or preventing  takeover attempts,  they
may tend to reduce the market price for our stock.

         Our  common  stock  is  not  insured,  so you  could  lose  your  total
investment.

         Our common stock is not a deposit, savings account or obligation of our
bank and is not  insured by the Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation  or any
other  government  agency.  Should our  business  fail you could lose your total
investment.

ITEM 1 B.                  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

         The Company is not an accelerated  filer or a large  accelerated  filer
and has not received any comments from the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission
regarding its current or periodic  reports in the 180 days prior to December 31,
2005.

43

ITEM 2.           PROPERTIES

         The Company's  corporate  office is located at 1818 East Main Street in
Easley,  South Carolina.  The property  consists of a three-story brick building
containing  approximately 10,670 square feet on 0.665 acres of land owned by The
Peoples  National  Bank.  This  building  houses some of the  Company's  support
functions,  including  administration,  accounting,  financial reporting,  human
resources,  training,  marketing,  risk management,  internal audit, compliance,
facilities management,  security,  and purchasing.  The Company also utilizes an
adjacent  office  building  located at 1814 East Main  Street in  Easley,  South
Carolina.  The  property  consists  of a  two-story  brick  building  containing
approximately  6,624  square  feet on 0.566  acres of land owned by The  Peoples
National  Bank.  This building  houses some of the Company's  support  functions
including operations,  data processing,  and information technology. The Peoples
National Bank also owns several  portions of an adjacent office building located
at 1824 East Main Street in Easley,  South  Carolina.  The property  consists of
approximately  6,600  square feet of office space  located in a one-story  brick
building  containing  approximately  9,000  square  feet on 0.704 acres of land.
Peoples  National  Bank is using  portions of this  facility as office space and
file storage, and a portion is currently being leased to a tenant.

         The main  office of The Peoples  National  Bank is located at 1800 East
Main  Street in Easley,  South  Carolina,  adjacent to the  Company's  corporate
office.  The property  consists of a two-story  brick building of  approximately
10,412  square  feet,  which is  constructed  on 1.75 acres of land owned by The
Peoples National Bank.  Improvements  include a three-lane  drive-through teller
installation,   vault,  night  depository,   safe-deposit   facilities,   and  a
drive-through automated teller machine.

         The Peoples  National Bank owns and operates  three branch  facilities:
one in Powdersville,  South Carolina located  approximately  seven miles east of
the Bank's main office containing approximately 3,158 square feet in a one-story
brick  building  situated  on 0.812  acres of land;  a second  branch  office in
Pickens,  South Carolina located approximately ten miles west of the Bank's main
office  containing  approximately  6,688 square feet in a two-story  building on
0.925 acres of land; and a third branch office in Easley located approximately 2
miles west of the Bank's main office containing  approximately 3,523 square feet
in a one and one-half story building situated on l.077 acres of land. All branch
facilities  have  improvements  including  drive-through  teller  installations,
drive-through  automated  teller machines,  vault,  night  depository,  and safe
deposit facilities.

         The Peoples National Bank currently  operates a loan-production  office
in a leased  facility  located at 233 North Main Street in the downtown  area of
Greenville,  South  Carolina.  The  bank  also  has  contracted  to  purchase  a
2.418-acre parcel of land at 1 East Antrim Drive in Greenville,  South Carolina,
and  subsequently  plans to  construct a facility  to be used as a  full-service
retail banking office.

         The main office of Bank of Anderson, National Association is located at
201 East Greenville Street in Anderson, South Carolina. The property consists of

44

a two-story  brick  building with  approximately  11,696  square feet,  which is
constructed  on 1.935  acres of land  owned  by Bank of  Anderson.  Improvements
include a three-lane drive-through teller installation, vault, night depository,
safe-deposit facilities, and a drive-through automated teller machine.

         Bank of  Anderson  owns and  operates  one branch  facility in Anderson
County, South Carolina located  approximately five miles northwest of the Bank's
main office  containing  approximately  3,036  square feet in a one-story  brick
building  situated on 0.86 acres of land. The branch  facility has  improvements
including a drive-through  teller installation,  drive-through  automated teller
machine, vault, night depository, and safe deposit box facilities.

         Seneca  National  Bank,  located  at 201  By-Pass  123,  Seneca,  South
Carolina,  operates out of a two-story brick building  containing  approximately
6,688  square feet  situated on 1.097 acres of land in Seneca,  South  Carolina,
which is owned by Seneca National Bank.

         All locations of the Company and the Banks are considered  suitable and
adequate  for  their  intended  purposes.  Management  believes  that  insurance
coverage on the foregoing properties is adequate.

45

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         The  Company is subject to various  legal  proceedings  and claims that
arise in the ordinary course of its business. In the opinion of management based
on  consultation  with  external  legal  counsel,  the outcome of any  currently
pending   litigation  is  not  expected  to  materially   affect  the  Company's
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         No matter was submitted  during the fourth quarter of 2005 to a vote of
security holders of the Company.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
         ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

         The common stock of the Company is traded over-the-counter.  Quotations
of  bid  and  ask  information  are  provided  electronically  by  the  National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.'s Over-The-Counter  Bulletin Board under
the symbol  "PBCE.OB."  The reported high and low bid prices for each quarter of
2005  and  2004  are  shown  in the  following  table.  The  quotations  reflect
inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not
necessarily represent actual transactions. There is not an active trading market
for our common stock.

                     Sales Prices of the Company's Common Stock

       Quarter Ended                                Low            High
       -------------                                ---            ----
       March 31, 2004 ........................    $   15.14     $   16.42
       June 30, 2004 .........................    $   15.08     $   17.42
       September 30, 2004 ....................    $   16.08     $   17.42
       December 31, 2004 .....................    $   17.00     $   17.42
       March 31, 2005 ........................    $   18.15     $   19.95
       June 30, 2005 .........................    $   15.69     $   18.53
       September 30, 2005 ....................    $   15.44     $   17.58
       December 31, 2005 .....................    $   13.25     $   16.86

         As of March 13, 2006,  the number of holders of record of the Company's
common  stock was 1,057 and the  number of issued  and  outstanding  shares  was
6,250,006.

         During 2005 the Company paid four  quarterly  cash  dividends  totaling
$0.20 per common share.  In 2004, the Company paid four quarterly cash dividends
totaling $0.26 per common share.

46

In  addition,  on each of July 13, 1992,  July 12,  1993,  December 12,
1994,  November 30, 1995,  November 8, 1996, October 31, 1997, December 7, 1998,
January 14, 2000, January 5, 2001, January 4, 2002,  November 18, 2002, November
17,  2003,  January 4, 2005 and  December  30,  2005 the  Company  paid 5% stock
dividends  to  shareholders  (2005 and 2004  prices in the table above have been
adjusted for the 2005 stock dividends).

         It is the policy of the Board of  Directors  of the Company to reinvest
earnings for such periods of time as is necessary to the  successful  operations
of the Company and of the Banks.  Future  dividends will depend on the Company's
earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered
relevant by the Board of Directors of the Company.  Payment of dividends is also
subject to regulatory restrictions (see Item 1, "PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS").

         The information  required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is set forth
under Item 12 of this Form 10-K.

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.

None.

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Company and Affiliated Purchasers

         Neither  the Company nor any  "affiliated  purchaser"  as defined in 17
C.F.R.  240.10b-18(a)(3)  purchased  any  shares  or units  of any  class of the
Company's  equity  securities  that is registered  pursuant to Section 12 of the
Exchange Act during the fourth  quarter of 2005.  Accordingly,  no disclosure is
required pursuant to 17 C.F.R. ss.229.703.

47

ITEM 6.           SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(1)  Per share data has been  restated  to reflect 5% stock  dividends  in 2001,
     2002,  2003,  2004 and 2005,  and the 3-for-2 stock split issued in October
     2004.

48

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATION

         The  following  discussion is intended to assist in  understanding  the
financial  condition and results of operations of the Company and should be read
in  conjunction  with  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of the  Company
included herein.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

         The Company has adopted various accounting  policies,  which govern the
application of accounting  principles generally accepted in the United States in
the  preparation  of  the  Company's  consolidated  financial  statements.   The
significant  accounting  policies of the Company are described in Item 8, Note 1
to the consolidated financial statements.

         Certain   accounting   policies  involve   significant   judgments  and
assumptions by management, which have a material impact on the carrying value of
certain assets and liabilities; management considers such accounting policies to
be  critical  accounting  policies.   The  judgments  and  assumptions  used  by
management  are based on  historical  experience  and other  factors,  which are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Because of the nature of the
judgments and assumptions  made by management,  actual results could differ from
these  judgments and estimates and could have a material  impact on the carrying
values of assets and liabilities and the results of operations of the Company.

         Of these  significant  accounting  policies,  the Company considers its
policies  regarding the allowance  for loan losses (the  "Allowance")  to be its
most  critical  accounting  policy due to the  significant  degree of management
judgment  involved in determining  the amount of the Allowance.  The Company has
developed  policies and  procedures for assessing the adequacy of the Allowance,
recognizing  that this process  requires a number of  assumptions  and estimates
with respect to its loan portfolio. The Company's assessments may be impacted in
future  periods by  changes in  economic  conditions,  the impact of  regulatory
examinations,  and the discovery of information with respect to borrowers, which
is not  known to  management  at the time of the  issuance  of the  consolidated
financial statements. Refer to the discussion under "PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR
LOAN  LOSSES,  LOAN  LOSS" in Part I, Item 1 for a detailed  description  of the
Company's  estimation process and methodology  related to the allowance for loan
losses.

DISCUSSION OF CHANGES IN FINANCIAL CONDITION

         Total  assets  increased  $58,181,000  or 13.5%  from  $429,796,000  at
December 31, 2004 to $487,977,000 at December 31, 2005.

         The Company  experienced  significant  loan  growth  during 2005 as the
total  outstanding  loans,  the largest  single  category  of assets,  increased

49

$51,592,000 or 15.8% from  $325,903,000  at December 31, 2004 to $377,495,000 at
December 31, 2005, as a result of an increase in the amount of outstanding loans
at the Company's three bank subsidiaries.

         The Company's  securities  portfolio  collectively,  at amortized cost,
increased  $7,411,000  or  10.3%  from  $71,944,000  at  December  31,  2004  to
$79,355,000 at December 31, 2005. The majority of this increase was attributable
to the deployment of increased  levels of deposit at the subsidiary  banks.  The
sale  of  U.S.  Government  agencies  and  mortgage-backed   securities  in  the
available-for-sale  portfolio  in 2004  amounted to  approximately  $10,028,000,
compared to $362,000 in 2005. The sale of these securities  resulted in realized
gains of  $128,000  in 2004 and $7,000 in  realized  gains in 2005.  Maturities,
calls,  and  principal  pay-downs on all  securities  amounted to  $5,261,000 at
December 31, 2005 compared to  $31,714,000  in the year ended December 31, 2004.
During 2005,  the Company made  purchases of  $8,035,000  in  available-for-sale
securities and purchases of $4,737,000 in securities  held-to-maturity  compared
to  $25,375,000  and  $2,302,000,  respectively,  in 2004.  The Company does not
engage in, and does not expect to engage in, hedging activities.

         Cash  and due from  banks  balances  increased  $681,000  or 7.9%  from
$8,630,000 at December 31, 2004 to $9,311,000 at December 31, 2005.  The Company
had no federal  funds sold as of December 31, 2005,  compared to  $2,631,000  at
December 31, 2004.  The swings in the levels of cash and federal  funds sold are
due to fluctuations in the Banks' needs and sources for immediate and short-term
liquidity.

         Cash surrender value of life insurance  increased $354,000 or 3.9% from
$9,049,000  at December 31, 2004 to  $9,403,000  at December 31, 2005 due to the
normal  appreciation  in value  associated  with the  ownership of these assets.
Earnings from the ownership of these policies are  informally  used to partially
offset the cost of certain employee-related benefits.

         Other assets,  comprised largely of prepaid expenses, other real estate
owned, and deferred income taxes, increased $1,491,000 or 71.0% to $3,585,000 at
December 31, 2005 from $2,094,000 at December 31, 2004. This increase is largely
attributable  to an increase of  $1,251,000 or 165.5% in other real estate owned
to  $2,007,000  at December 31, 2005 from  $756,000 at December  31,  2004.  The
increase in other real estate owned is largely  attributable  to  $1,048,000  in
foreclosures on four properties  representing a single customer  relationship at
Bank of  Anderson.  Deferred  income  taxes  increased  by  $212,000 or 17.2% to
$1,444,000 at December 31, 2005 from $1,232,000 at December 31, 2004.

         Total liabilities  increased  $55,250,000 or 14.1% from $391,556,000 at
December 31, 2004 to $446,806,000 at December 31, 2005. Total deposits increased
$44,204,000 or 12.8% to $390,349,000  at December 31, 2005 from  $346,145,000 at

50

December 31, 2004. Of the $44,204,000  increase in total  deposits,  there was a
$43,244,000  increase in  interest-bearing  deposits,  largely  certificates  of
deposit  and  interest-bearing  transaction  accounts.   Securities  sold  under
repurchase  agreements decreased $2,217,000 or 6.5% from $33,953,000 at December
31, 2004 to $31,736,000 at December 31, 2005. Federal funds purchased  increased
$3,467,000  or 606.1%  from  $572,000  at December  31,  2004 to  $4,039,000  at
December  31, 2005.  Federal Home Loan Bank  advances  increased  $9,000,000  or
105.9% from $8,500,000 at December 31, 2004 to $17,500,000 at December 31, 2005.
At both  December  31, 2005 and  December  31,  2004,  $5,000,000  represents  a
long-term  advance  purchased  in December  2000,  which will mature in December
2010.  The  overall  increase  in these other  interest-bearing  liabilities  is
largely  attributable  to the need to fund the growth in loan  volume at each of
the Banks.

         Shareholders'  equity increased  $2,931,000 or 7.7% from $38,240,000 at
December  31, 2004 to  $41,171,000  at December 31, 2005.  This  increase  comes
primarily as a result of net earnings  for the period of  $4,128,000,  which was
partially  offset by the declaration and payment of $1,187,000 in cash dividends
and the payment of $9,000 of cash in lieu of fractional  shares for the 5% stock
dividend during 2005.

51

EARNINGS PERFORMANCE

2005 Compared to 2004

Overview

         The  Company's  consolidated  operations  for the twelve  months  ended
December 31, 2005  resulted in net income of $4,128,000 or $0.66 per basic share
($0.65 per  diluted  share),  compared  to  $3,528,000  or $0.58 per basic share
($0.56 per diluted  share) for the twelve  months ended  December 31, 2004.  The
increase in the  Company's  net income of  $600,000  or 17.0% for 2005  resulted
largely from a significant  increase in total  interest  income during 2005, and
was  partially  offset  by  an  increase  in  interest  on  deposits  and  other
liabilities and a reduction in non-interest income.

Interest Income, Interest Expense and Net Interest Income

         The  Company's  net interest  income  increased  $2,753,000 or 18.7% to
$17,357,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to $14,622,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2004.

         The Company's  total interest income  increased  $5,227,000 or 24.8% to
$26,290,000 in 2005 compared to $21,063,000  for 2004.  This increase is largely
attributable  to an increase in interest  income and fees on loans of $5,048,000
resulting  from an increase in  outstanding  loans at the  Company's  three bank
subsidiaries  and higher yields  resulting  from higher market  interest  rates.
There was also an increase of  $106,000  in  interest on federal  funds sold;  a
$46,000  increase in interest on taxable  securities;  and a $27,000 increase in
interest on tax-exempt  securities.  These increases are primarily due to higher
market yields on these types of earning assets.

         Total interest expense  increased  $2,492,000 or 38.7% to $8,933,000 in
2005  compared to $6,441,000  for 2004.  The increases in the amount of interest
paid on  deposits  increased  $2,096,000;  interest  expense  on  federal  funds
purchased and securities sold under repurchase  agreements  increased  $294,000;
and the interest paid on notes  payable to the Federal Home Loan Bank  increased
$102,000 in 2005.  The increase in interest  expense  among the various types of
interest-bearing  liabilities is largely  attributable to  significantly  higher
market interest rates experienced at the Company's bank subsidiaries, as well as
higher average balances during 2005 as compared to 2004.

Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses

         The  Company's  provision for loan losses was $848,000 in 2005 compared
to $589,000 for 2004,  a $259,000 or 44.0%  increase.  This  increase is largely
attributable to a $349,000  increase in net charged-off  loans.  During 2005 the
Company experienced net charge-offs of $685,000, or 0.19% of average outstanding
loans (excluding loans held for sale),  compared to net charge-offs of $336,000,

52

or  0.11%  of  average  outstanding  loans in 2004.  At  December  31,  2005 the
allowance  for loan  losses  was  1.02% as a  percentage  of  outstanding  loans
compared to 1.13% at December 31, 2004.

         At December 31, 2005 the Company had $1,206,000 in  non-accrual  loans,
$922,000 in  restructured  loans,  $10,000 in loans past due 90 days or more but
still accruing interest, and $2,007,000 in real estate acquired in settlement of
loans, compared to $670,000, $0, $838,000, and $756,000 respectively at December
31,  2004.  Non-performing  assets as a  percentage  of all loans and other real
estate owned were 1.09% and 0.69% at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

         In the cases of  non-performing  loans,  management  of the Company has
reviewed the carrying value of any underlying  collateral.  In those cases where
the collateral value may be less than the carrying value of the loan the Company
has taken specific  write-downs to the loan.  Management of the Company does not
believe it has any non-accrual loan that  individually  could materially  impact
the  allowance  for loan losses or  long-term  future  operating  results of the
Company.

         The Company  records real estate  acquired  through  foreclosure at the
lower of cost or estimated market value less estimated selling costs.  Estimated
market  value is based upon the  assumption  of a sale in the  normal  course of
business and not on a quick  liquidation or distressed  basis.  Estimated market
value is  established  by  independent  appraisal  at the  time of  foreclosure.
Management  believes  that other real estate owned at December 31, 2005 will not
require significant write-downs in future accounting periods, and therefore will
not have a significant effect on the Company's future operations.

Other Income

         Total consolidated  other income,  including  securities  transactions,
decreased  $1,387,000  or 27.8% from  $4,996,000  in 2004 to $3,609,000 in 2005.
This decrease is largely  attributable  to a reduction of $1,213,000 or 71.1% in
income associated with the origination of residential  mortgage loans, which was
reflected as $494,000 in mortgage  banking  income in 2005 versus  $1,707,000 in
the gain on sale of residential mortgage loans in 2004. During 2004,  management
made the decision to completely exit the wholesale  mortgage business due to the
significant  decrease in demand for residential  mortgage loans and refinancing,
and  therefore at December  31,  2004,  the Company no longer owned any mortgage
loans held for sale.  Currently,  the Company's mortgage banking income consists
entirely of fees collected for the origination of residential  mortgages  funded
by unrelated investors. Other non-interest income decreased $214,000 or 40.8% to
$311,000 in 2005 when  compared to  $525,000  in 2004.  The  decrease is largely
attributable  to life  insurance  death  benefits  totaling  $174,000  that were
received in 2004 in conjunction with the death of the Company's former Chairman,
President and CEO. The Company  recorded a $7,000 gain on the sale of securities
in 2005,  a decrease of $121,000 or 94.5% from the gain of $128,000  recorded in
2004.

53

Other Expenses

         Total  consolidated  other  expenses  increased  $491,000  or  3.6%  to
$14,338,000 in 2005 compared to $13,847,000 in 2004. Salaries and benefits,  the
largest  component  of  non-interest  expense,  increased  $38,000  or  0.5%  to
$8,205,000 in 2005 compared to $8,167,000 in 2004.

         Occupancy and furniture and equipment  expenses  increased  $151,000 or
7.7% to  $2,109,000  in 2005  compared to  $1,958,000  in 2004.  The increase is
primarily attributable to the renovation of the Company's headquarters beginning
in late 2004 and continuing through the third quarter of 2005, the completion of
an expansion and renovation of the main office of Bank of Anderson, N. A. in the
third  quarter of 2004,  and the purchase of an ATM facility at Seneca  National
Bank during the second quarter of 2005.

         Other  post-employment  benefits expense decreased $358,000 or 72.3% to
$137,000 in 2005 compared to $495,000 in 2004. This decrease is primarily due to
a one-time,  non-recurring  charge  incurred in the first quarter of 2004 in the
amount of $376,000 to fully fund the liability for death benefits payable to the
beneficiary  of the Company's  former  Chairman,  President and CEO, who died in
April  2004.  This  charge  was  required  by SFAS No.  112 in  accordance  with
generally accepted accounting principles.

         Marketing  and  advertising  expense  increased  $118,000  or  39.7% to
$415,000 in 2005 compared to $297,000 in 2004.  This increase is attributable to
the  promotion of certain  bank  products and  advertising  associated  with the
upcoming 20th anniversary of Peoples National Bank. Legal and professional  fees
increased  $111,000  or 42.7% from  $260,000  in 2004 to $371,000 in 2005 due to
expenses  associated  with  compliance  obligations  under  section  404  of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and consultation and revisions regarding articles of
incorporation,  bylaws,  stock  options,  and  executive  employment  contracts.
Director  fees  increased  $73,000  or 26.4% to  $349,000  in 2005  compared  to
$276,000 in 2004, due to an increase in the amount of compensation  per director
for 2005.  All other  operating  expenses  were  $2,752,000  in 2005 compared to
$2,394,000 in 2004.

Income Taxes

         Refer to Note 10 of the Company's  consolidated  financials  statements
for an analysis of income tax expense.

54

EARNINGS PERFORMANCE

2004 Compared to 2003

Overview

         The  consolidated  Company's  operations  for the twelve  months  ended
December 31, 2004  resulted in net income of $3,528,000 or $0.58 per basic share
($0.56 per  diluted  share),  compared  to  $5,044,000  or $0.83 per basic share
($0.80 per diluted  share) for the twelve  months ended  December 31, 2003.  The
decrease in the  Company's  net income of  $1,516,000 or 30.1% for 2004 resulted
largely  from  a  significant  decrease  in  non-interest  income  during  2004,
primarily  from  the  slowing  of  the  Company's  residential  mortgage-lending
activities because of the major reduction in demand.

Interest Income, Interest Expense and Net Interest Income

         The  Company's  net interest  income  increased  $1,241,000  or 9.3% to
$14,622,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $13,381,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2003.

         The  Company's  total  interest  income  increased  $156,000 or 0.8% to
$21,063,000 in 2004 compared to $20,907,000  for 2003. This increase was largely
attributable  to an increase  in  interest  income and fees on loans of $712,000
resulting  from an increase in  outstanding  loans at the  Company's  three bank
subsidiaries.  This  increase  was  partially  offset by a decrease  in interest
income on taxable  investments of $521,000 or 21.7%  resulting from lower market
rates and  lower  average  balances  experienced  at the  Company's  three  bank
subsidiaries  during 2004 when compared to 2003. The increase was also partially
offset by a decrease  in  interest  income on  federal  funds sold of $88,000 or
50.0% resulting from lower average balances of this account.

         Total interest expense  decreased  $1,085,000 or 14.4% to $6,441,000 in
2004  compared to $7,526,000  for 2003.  The decreases in the amount of interest
paid on the various  categories of  interest-bearing  liability accounts in 2004
were largely  attributable  to lower market rates  experienced  at the Company's
three bank subsidiaries during 2004 when compared to 2003.

Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses

         The  Company's  provision for loan losses was $589,000 in 2004 compared
to $1,106,000 for 2003, a $517,000 or 46.7% decrease.  This decrease was largely
attributable  to slower  loan  growth at the  Banks,  coupled  with an  $182,000
decrease in net  charged-off  loans.  During 2004 the  Company  experienced  net
charge-offs of $336,000,  or 0.11% of average outstanding loans (excluding loans
held for sale),  compared to net  charge-offs  of $518,000,  or 0.19% of average
outstanding  loans in 2003.  At December 31, 2004 the  allowance for loan losses
was 1.13% as a percentage of outstanding  loans  (excluding loans held for sale)
compared to 1.16% at December 31, 2003.

55

At December 31, 2004 the Company had $670,000 in non-accrual  loans, no
restructured  loans,  $838,000  in  loans  past  due 90 days or more  but  still
accruing interest,  and $756,000 in real estate acquired in settlement of loans,
compared to $829,000,  $0, $122,000,  and $517,000  respectively at December 31,
2003.  Non-performing  assets as a percentage of all loans and other real estate
owned were 0.69% and 0.49% at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Other Income

         Total consolidated  other income,  including  securities  transactions,
decreased  $5,306,000 or 51.5% from  $10,302,000  in 2003 to $4,996,000 in 2004.
This decrease was largely attributable to a decrease of $5,936,000 or 77.7% from
the  gain on sale of  residential  mortgage  loans  from  $7,643,000  in 2003 to
$1,707,000  in 2004,  and was  partially  offset by an  increase  of $200,000 or
200.0% in  earnings  on bank  owned  life  insurance  from  $110,000  in 2003 to
$330,000  in 2004,  and an  increase  of $79,000  or 4.1% in service  charges on
deposit  accounts from  $1,923,000  in 2003 to  $2,002,000 in 2004.  The Company
recorded a $128,000  gain on the sale of  securities  in 2004,  an  increase  of
$115,000 or 884.6% from the gain of $13,000 recorded in 2003.

Other Expenses

         Total  consolidated  other  expenses  decreased  $818,000  or  5.6%  to
$13,847,000 in 2004 compared to $14,665,000 in 2003. Salaries and benefits,  the
largest  component  of  non-interest  expense,  decreased  $777,000  or  8.7% to
$8,167,000 in 2004 compared to $8,944,000 in 2003.  The decrease in salaries and
benefits for the comparative  periods was primarily  attributable to the reduced
staffing associated with the residential  mortgage lending personnel,  reduction
in  commissions  paid,  and  changes in  personnel  due to  decreased  volume of
mortgage loans  originated,  and partially offset by normal salary increases and
other changes in personnel throughout the company.

         Occupancy  expense  increased  $59,000  or  9.7%  to  $668,000  in 2004
compared to $609,000 in 2003.  Equipment expense increased  $139,000 or 12.1% to
$1,290,000 in 2004  compared to  $1,151,000 in 2003.  The increases in occupancy
and  equipment  expenses  were  primarily  attributable  to the opening of a new
branch  office  of Bank of  Anderson,  N.A.  in August  2003,  the  purchase  of
additional  office space by The Peoples National Bank in Easley,  South Carolina
in January 2004,  and the  completion of an expansion and renovation to the main
office of Bank of Anderson, N.A. in the third quarter of 2004.

         Executive  retirement  benefit expense increased  $321,000 or 184.5% to
$495,000 in 2004  compared to $174,000 in 2003.  This increase was primarily due
to a one-time, non-recurring charge incurred in the first quarter of 2004 in the
amount of $376,000 to increase the liability for death  benefits  payable to the
beneficiary  of the Company's  former  Chairman,  President and CEO, who died in
April  2004.  This  charge  was  required  by SFAS No.  112 in  accordance  with
generally accepted accounting principles. The increase was partially offset by a
reduction  in the number of  executives  covered  from two to one,  resulting in
lower expenses for the remainder of the year.

56

Bank paid loan costs  decreased  $147,000  or 32.2% to $310,000 in 2004
compared to $457,000 in 2003.  The  decrease in bank paid loan costs for the two
comparative periods was principally  attributable to the significant decrease in
the volume of mortgage loans originated during 2004 when compared to 2003.

         Miscellaneous  other operating  expenses decreased $413,000 or 12.4% to
$2,917,000 in 2004 compared to  $3,330,000  in 2003.  Marketing and  advertising
expense  decreased  $95,000 or 24.2% to $297,000 in 2004 compared to $392,000 in
2003.  This  decrease  was the result of a  decision  by  management  to curtail
expenditures in this area.  Communications expense decreased $66,000 or 24.3% to
$206,000  in 2004  compared  to  $272,000  in 2003.  This  decrease  was largely
attributable  to  a  redesign  of  telephone  systems  that  incorporated  newer
technologies and allowed cost savings.

         Other operating  expenses  decreased  $183,000 or 8.7% to $1,670,000 in
2004,  compared  to  $1,904,000  in 2003.  This  decrease  was  attributable  to
decreases in postage expense;  printing and supplies;  and impact fees.  Postage
expense  decreased  $90,000 or 31.5% to $196,000 in 2004 compared to $286,000 in
2003, largely due to the decrease in postage associated with reduced activity in
the mortgage loan department.  Printing and supplies  decreased $67,000 or 24.4%
to $208,000 in 2004 compared to $275,000 in 2003,  also largely  associated with
reduced activity in the mortgage loan  department.  Impact fees, which were paid
to a  consultant  that  assisted  with  the  design  and  implementation  of our
overdraft  privilege service,  decreased by $109,000 or 80.7% to $26,000 in 2004
compared to $135,000 in 2003 due to the expiration of that contract.

         Other expenses included legal and professional fees; ATM and debit card
expense;  insurance expense; travel and administration expense; and other sundry
expenses.  Legal and professional fees increased $51,000 or 24.4% to $260,000 in
2004  compared to $209,000 in 2003  largely due to  consultation  and  revisions
regarding articles of incorporation,  bylaws,  stock option plans, and executive
employment  contracts.  ATM and debit card expense increased $26,000 or 12.4% to
$236,000  in 2004  compared  to  $210,000  in 2003.  This  increase  was largely
attributable  to growth in the number of  transactions  and vendor fee increases
that occurred in 2004.  Insurance  expense for  directors  and  officers,  bond,
property,  workers compensation,  liability,  etc. increased $22,000 or 20.2% to
$131,000  in 2004  compared  to  $109,000  in 2003 as the  result  of  increased
insurance coverage. Travel and administration expense decreased $13,000 or 13.3%
to $85,000 in 2004  compared to $98,000 in 2003.  The retreat  that was held for
the Board of Directors in 2003 was not repeated in 2004, largely contributing to
the decrease in travel and administration expense.

57

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

         The sections  "LIQUIDITY" and "CAPITAL ADEQUACY AND RESOURCES" included
in "Business"  under Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K are  incorporated
herein by reference.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

         The section  "OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRARNGEMENTS AND DERIVATIVE  FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS"  included in "Business"  under Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K is incorporated herein by reference.

         The following table summarizes the Company's contractual obligations as
of December 31, 2005.

The Peoples  National  Bank has a $5,000,000  advance from the Federal Home Loan
Bank of Atlanta at a 4.82 percent  interest rate that matures in December  2010.
This  obligation was entered into in December 2000 to provide  liquidity to meet
the needs of its customers.

58

ITEM 7A  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

         The  section  "Market  Risk - Interest  Rate  Sensitivity"  included in
"Business"  under  Item 1 of this  Annual  Report on Form  10-K is  incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 8.           FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The following financial statements are filed with this report:

- -    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

- -    Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004.

- -    Consolidated  Statements  of Income for the years ended  December 31, 2005,
     2004 and 2003.

- -    Consolidated  Statements of Shareholders'  Equity and Comprehensive  Income
     for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.

- -    Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the years  ended  December  31,
     2005, 2004 and 2003.

- -    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

59

PEOPLES BANCORPORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003

60

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
Peoples Bancorporation, Inc.
Easley, South Carolina

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Peoples
Bancorporation,  Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the
related   consolidated   statements   of   income,   shareholders'   equity  and
comprehensive  income,  and cash  flows for each of the years in the three  year
period ended December 31, 2005. These consolidated  financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

         We conducted our audits in accordance  with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the
consolidated  financial statements are free of material  misstatement.  An audit
includes  examining,  on a test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures in the  consolidated  financial  statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall consolidated  financial statement
presentation.  We believe  that our audits  provide a  reasonable  basis for our
opinion.

         In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the financial  position of Peoples
Bancorporation,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the
results  of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three year period  ended  December  31,  2005,  in  conformity  with  accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

/s/Elliott Davis LLC

Greenville, South Carolina
February 21, 2006

61

PEOPLES BANCORPORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                 (Amounts in thousands except share information)

The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.

62

PEOPLES BANCORPORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
               (Amounts in thousands except per share information)

The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.

63

PEOPLES BANCORPORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
              For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
                 (Amounts in thousands except share information)

The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.

64

PEOPLES BANCORPORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (Amounts in thousands)

The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements

65

PEOPLES BANCORPORATION, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ACTIVITIES

   Principles of consolidation and nature of operations
     The  consolidated  financial  statements  include  the  accounts of Peoples
     Bancorporation, Inc. (the "Company") and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, The
     Peoples  National Bank,  Bank of Anderson,  N.A., and Seneca  National Bank
     (collectively  referred to as the "Banks").  All  significant  intercompany
     balances and  transactions  have been  eliminated.  The Banks operate under
     individual  national  bank  charters and provide  full banking  services to
     customers.  The  Banks  are  subject  to  regulation  by the  Office of the
     Comptroller  of the  Currency.  The Company is subject to regulation by the
     Federal Reserve Board.

   Estimates
     The  preparation of  consolidated  financial  statements in conformity with
     accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the United States of America
     requires  management  to make  estimates  and  assumptions  that affect the
     reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities  and  disclosure of contingent
     assets and  liabilities  at the date of the  financial  statements  and the
     reported amounts of interest and noninterest income and expenses during the
     reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

  Segments
     The Company, through its subsidiaries,  provides a broad range of financial
     services to individuals and companies.  These services include demand, time
     and savings deposits;  lending and ATM processing and are substantially the
     same across subsidiaries.  While the Company's  decision-makers monitor the
     revenue streams of the various  financial  products and services by product
     line and by subsidiary,  the operations and the allocation of resources are
     managed,  and financial  performance is evaluated,  on an organization-wide
     basis.  Accordingly,  the  Company's  banking  operation is  considered  by
     management to be one reportable operating segment.

   Securities
     The Company  accounts  for  securities  in  accordance  with  Statement  of
     Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No. 115,  Accounting for Certain
     Investments in Debt and Equity  Securities.  Debt securities are classified
     upon purchase as available  for sale,  held to maturity,  or trading.  Such
     assets  classified  as  available  for  sale  are  carried  at fair  value.
     Unrealized  holding  gains  or  losses  are  reported  as  a  component  of
     shareholders' equity (accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) net of
     deferred  income  taxes.  Securities  classified  as held to  maturity  are
     carried  at  cost,  adjusted  for  the  amortization  of  premiums  and the
     accretion of discounts  into  interest  income  using a  methodology  which
     approximates a level yield of interest over the estimated  remaining period
     until maturity.  To qualify as held to maturity,  the Company must have the
     ability and intent to hold the securities to maturity.  Trading  securities
     are carried at market value. The Company has no trading  securities.  Gains
     or losses on dispositions of securities are based on the difference between
     the net proceeds and the adjusted  carrying amount of the securities  sold,
     using the specific identification method.

   Loans and interest on loans
     Loans are  stated  at the  principal  balance  outstanding  reduced  by the
     allowance for loan losses.  Interest  income is recognized over the term of
     the loan based on the contractual  interest rate and the principal  balance
     outstanding.

     Loans generally are placed on non-accrual status when principal or interest
     becomes  ninety days past due, or when payment in full is not  anticipated.
     Interest payments received after a loan is placed on non-accrual status are
     applied as  principal  reductions  until such time the loan is  returned to
     accrual  status.  Generally,  a loan is returned to accrual status when the
     loan is brought current and the collectibility of principal and interest no
     longer is in doubt.

(Continued)

                                       66

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ACTIVITIES, Continued

   Allowance for loan losses
     The Company provides for loan losses using the allowance method. Provisions
     for loan losses are added to the  allowance  through  charges to  operating
     expenses.  Loans  which are  determined  to be  uncollectible  are  charged
     against the allowance and  recoveries on loans  previously  charged off are
     added to the allowance.  The provision for loan losses is the amount deemed
     appropriate  by management  to establish an adequate  allowance to meet the
     present and foreseeable risk characteristics of the current loan portfolio.
     Management's  judgment  is based on  periodic  and  regular  evaluation  of
     individual loans, the overall risk characteristics of the various portfolio
     segments,  past experience with losses,  delinquency trends, and prevailing
     and  anticipated  economic  conditions.  While  management  uses  the  best
     information  available  to  make  evaluations,  future  adjustments  to the
     allowance may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from
     the  assumptions  used in making the  evaluation.  The  allowance  for loan
     losses is subject to periodic evaluation by various regulatory  authorities
     and may be subject to adjustment upon their examination.

     A loan is  considered  to be impaired  when full  payment  according to the
     terms of the loan agreement is not probable or when the terms of a loan are
     modified. The fair value of impaired loans may be determined based upon the
     present  value of expected cash flows  discounted  at the loan's  effective
     interest rate, the market price of the loan, if available,  or value of the
     underlying  collateral  if  the  loan  is  collateral-dependent.  When  the
     ultimate collectibility of an impaired loan's principal is in doubt, wholly
     or partially, all cash receipts are applied to principal. Once the reported
     principal  balance  has been  reduced to zero,  future  cash  receipts  are
     applied to  interest  income,  to the  extent  that any  interest  has been
     foregone.  Further cash  receipts are recorded as recoveries of any amounts
     previously charged-off.

   Mortgage loans held for sale
     Mortgage loans originated and intended for sale in the secondary market are
     carried at the lower of cost or estimated  market  value in the  aggregate.
     Net unrealized losses are provided for in a valuation  allowance by charges
     to operations.  Gains and losses on sales of loans are recognized  when the
     loans are sold to secondary  market  investors.  During  2004,  the Company
     ended its origination and sale of loans in the secondary market.

   Premises and equipment
     Premises and  equipment are stated at cost less  accumulated  depreciation.
     Depreciation  is  calculated  using  the  straight-line   method  over  the
     estimated  useful lives of the assets.  Additions to premises and equipment
     and major  replacements  or  betterments  are  added at cost.  Maintenance,
     repairs, and minor replacements are charged to expense when incurred.  When
     assets  are  retired or  otherwise  disposed  of, the cost and  accumulated
     depreciation  are  removed  from  the  accounts  and  any  gain  or loss is
     reflected in income.

   Other real estate owned
     Other real estate owned represents  properties acquired through foreclosure
     and is carried at the lower of cost or fair value,  adjusted for  estimated
     selling costs. Fair values of real estate owned are reviewed  regularly and
     writedowns  are recorded when it is determined  that the carrying  value of
     real estate  exceeds  the fair value less  estimated  costs to sell.  Costs
     relating  to  the   development   and  improvement  of  such  property  are
     capitalized,  whereas  those costs  relating to holding  the  property  are
     charged to expense.  At December 31, 2005 and 2004 real estate owned by the
     Company totaled $2,007,000 and $756,000,  respectively,  and is included in
     other  assets.  During  2005 and 2004,  the  Company  transferred  loans of
     $1,756,000  and  $616,000,   respectively   to  real  estate   acquired  in
     foreclosure.

(Continued)

                                       67

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ACTIVITIES, Continued

   Advertising and public relations expense
     Advertising, promotional and other business development costs are generally
     expensed  as  incurred.   External  costs   incurred  in  producing   media
     advertising  are  expensed  the first  time the  advertising  takes  place.
     External  costs relating to direct mailing costs are expensed in the period
     in which the direct mailings are sent.

   Income taxes
     The  provision  for  income  taxes  includes  deferred  taxes on  temporary
     differences between the recognition of certain income and expense items for
     tax and  financial  statement  purposes.  Income  taxes are computed on the
     liability method as described in SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes.

   Statements of cash flows
     For the purposes of reporting  cash flows,  the Company  considers cash and
     cash equivalents to be those amounts included in the balance sheet captions
     "Cash and Due From Banks,"  "Interest-bearing  Deposits in Other Banks" and
     "Federal Funds Sold." Cash and cash equivalents  have an original  maturity
     of three months or less.

   Reclassifications
     Certain  prior year  amounts  have been  reclassified  to conform  with the
     current presentation.  These reclassifications have no effect on previously
     reported net income or shareholders' equity.

   Risk and uncertainties
     In the normal course of its business the Company encounters two significant
     types of risk: economic and regulatory.  There are three main components of
     economic  risk:  interest  rate risk,  credit risk,  and market  risk.  The
     Company  is  subject  to  interest   rate  risk  to  the  degree  that  its
     interest-bearing  liabilities  mature or reprice at different speeds, or on
     different bases, than its interest-earning  assets. Credit risk is the risk
     of default on the Company's  loan  portfolio  that results from  borrowers'
     inability or unwillingness to make contractually required payments.  Market
     risk  reflects  changes  in  the  value  of  collateral   underlying  loans
     receivable,  the  valuation  of real  estate held by the  Company,  and the
     valuation of loans held for sale and mortgage-backed  securities  available
     for sale.

     The Company is subject to the regulations of various  government  agencies.
     These  regulations can and do change  significantly  from period to period.
     The  Company  also  undergoes  periodic   examinations  by  the  regulatory
     agencies,  which may subject it to further  changes  with  respect to asset
     valuations,   amounts  of   required   loss   allowances,   and   operating
     restrictions, resulting from the regulators' judgments based on information
     available to them at the time of their examination.

   Stock option compensation plans
     The Company has a stock option compensation plan through which the Board of
     Directors  may grant stock  options to officers  and  employees to purchase
     common stock of the Company at prices not less than 100 percent of the fair
     value of the stock on the date of grant.  The  outstanding  options  become
     exercisable  in  various  increments  beginning  on the date of  grant  and
     expiring  ten  years  from  the  date of  grant.  The  Company  also  has a
     directors'  stock option plan through which  non-employee  directors of the
     Company are granted options to purchase 500 shares of common stock for each
     year served on the board to a maximum of 5,000  options per  director.  The
     option  price  shall not be less than 100  percent of the fair value of the
     stock on the grant date. The outstanding  options become exercisable on the
     grant date and expire at the earlier of the end of the  director's  term or
     ten years from the grant date.

     The Company has historically  accounted for the plans under the recognition
     and measurement  principles of Accounting  Principles Board ("APB") Opinion
     No.  25,   Accounting   for  Stock   Issued  to   Employees,   and  related
     Interpretations.  No stock-based employee compensation cost is reflected in
     net income,  as all stock options granted under these plans had an exercise
     price equal to the market value of the underlying  common stock on the date
     of grant.  The  following  table  illustrates  the effect on net income and
     earnings  per share if the Company  had applied the fair value  recognition
     provisions of Financial  Accounting  Standards Board ("FASB") SFAS No. 123,
     Accounting  for   Stock-Based   Compensation,   to   stock-based   employee
     compensation.

(Continued)

68

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ACTIVITIES, Continued

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
     the Black-Scholes  option pricing model with the following weighted average
     assumptions for grants in 2005, 2004 and 2003: dividend yields from $.17 to
     $.20  per  share,  expected  volatility  from 25 to 27  percent,  risk-free
     interest rates from 4.06 to 5.00 percent and expected life of 10 years. The
     weighted  average  market value of options  granted  approximated  $6.66 in
     2005,  $5.25 in 2004,  and  $8.45 in 2003.  For  purposes  of the  proforma
     calculations,  compensation  expense is recognized on a straight-line basis
     over the vesting period.

     Effective  January 1, 2006,  the Company has adopted the provisions of SFAS
     No. 123 (R), which changed the accounting  methodology for its stock option
     plans. See "Recently issued accounting standards."

   Recently issued accounting standards
     The  following  is a summary of recent  authoritative  pronouncements  that
     affect accounting,  reporting,  and disclosure of financial  information by
     the Company:

     In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
     of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 123 (revised  2004),  Share-Based
     Payment  ("SFAS No.  123(R)").  SFAS No.  123(R) will require  companies to
     measure all  employee  stock-based  compensation  awards using a fair value
     method and record such expense in its  financial  statements.  In addition,
     the  adoption  of  SFAS  No.  123(R)  requires  additional  accounting  and
     disclosure  related to the income tax and cash flow effects  resulting from
     share-based  payment  arrangements.  SFAS No.  123(R) was effective for the
     Company beginning as of the first quarterly  reporting period of 2006. SFAS
     No. 123(R)  allows for adoption  using either the modified  prospective  or
     modified  retrospective  methods.  The Company  elected to use the modified
     prospective  method when this statement was adopted in the first quarter of
     2006. The Company has evaluated the impact upon adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)
     and related  guidance  and has  concluded  that the adoption did not have a
     material  impact on  financial  position  or  results  of  operations  upon
     adoption.

(Continued)

                                       69

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ACTIVITIES, Continued

In December  2004,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 153,  Exchanges of Nonmonetary
     Assets - an  amendment  of APB Opinion No. 29. The standard is based on the
     principle that exchanges of nonmonetary  assets should be measured based on
     the fair value of the assets  exchanged and eliminates the exception  under
     APB  Opinion  No. 29 for an  exchange  of  similar  productive  assets  and
     replaces it with an exception for exchanges of  nonmonetary  assets that do
     not have  commercial  substance.  A  nonmonetary  exchange  has  commercial
     substance  if the future  cash flows of the entity are  expected  to change
     significantly  as a result of the  exchange.  The standard is effective for
     nonmonetary  exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15,
     2005.  The  adoption of SFAS No. 153 is not  expected to have any impact on
     the Company's financial position or results of operations.

     In May 2005,  the FASB issued SFAS No.  154,  Accounting  Changes and Error
     Corrections - a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.
     SFAS No. 154 establishes  retrospective  application as the required method
     for reporting a change in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable,
     in which case the changes should be applied to the latest  practicable date
     presented.  SFAS No. 154 also  requires  that a  correction  of an error be
     reported as a prior period  adjustment by restating prior period  financial
     statements.   SFAS  No.  154  is  effective  for  accounting   changes  and
     corrections  of errors made in fiscal years  beginning  after  December 15,
     2005.

     In  March  2005  the  FASB  issued  FASB  Interpretation  ("FIN")  No.  47,
     Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations--an  interpretation
     of FASB  Statement No. 143.  This  Interpretation  clarifies  that the term
     conditional asset retirement obligation as used in SFAS No. 143, Accounting
     for Asset Retirement  Obligations,  refers to a legal obligation to perform
     an asset  retirement  activity  in which  the  timing  and (or)  method  of
     settlement are  conditional on a future event that may or may not be within
     the control of the entity.  The obligation to perform the asset  retirement
     activity is unconditional  even though  uncertainty exists about the timing
     and (or)  method  of  settlement.  Thus,  the  timing  and (or)  method  of
     settlement may be conditional on a future event. Accordingly,  an entity is
     required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset
     retirement  obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably
     estimated.  The  fair  value  of a  liability  for  the  conditional  asset
     retirement  obligation should be recognized when  incurred--generally  upon
     acquisition,  construction,  or  development  and (or)  through  the normal
     operation  of the asset.  Uncertainty  about the timing and (or)  method of
     settlement of a conditional asset retirement  obligation should be factored
     into the measurement of the liability when sufficient  information  exists.
     FIN No. 47 is  effective no later than the end of fiscal years ending after
     December 15, 2005. The Company  adopted FIN No. 47 in 2005 and its adoption
     had no effect on financial position or results of operations.

(Continued)

                                       70

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ACTIVITIES, Continued

     In March 2004,  the FASB issued  Emerging  Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue
     No.  03-1,   The  Meaning  of   Other-Than-Temporary   Impairment  and  its
     Application  to Certain  Investments.  This Issue  addresses the meaning of
     other-than-temporary   impairment   and  its   application  to  investments
     classified as either  available for sale or held to maturity under SFAS No.
     115  and  it  also  provides   guidance  on  quantitative  and  qualitative
     disclosures. The disclosure requirements in paragraph 21 of this Issue were
     adopted by the Company  effective  December 31, 2003. The  recognition  and
     measurement  guidance in paragraphs 6-20 of this Issue was to be applied to
     other-than-temporary  impairment evaluations in reporting periods beginning
     after June 15, 2004, but was delayed by FASB action in October 2004 through
     the issuance of a proposed  FASB Staff  Position  ("FSP") on the issue.  In
     July 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115-1 and FSP FAS 124-1--The  Meaning of
     Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments.
     This FSP addresses the determination as to when an investment is considered
     impaired,  whether  that  impairment  is  other  than  temporary,  and  the
     measurement  of an  impairment  loss.  This  FSP also  includes  accounting
     considerations  subsequent to the  recognition  of an  other-than-temporary
     impairment and requires certain  disclosures  about unrealized  losses that
     have not been recognized as other-than-temporary impairments. This FSP will
     be effective  for  other-than-temporary  impairment  analyses  conducted in
     periods  beginning  after  December 15, 2005. The Company has evaluated the
     impact of the adoption of FSP FAS 115-1 and FSP FAS 124-1 and has concluded
     that the adoption will not have a material impact on financial position and
     results of operations upon adoption.

     In December  2005,  the FASB issued FSP SOP 94-6-1,  Terms of Loan Products
     that May Give  Rise to a  Concentration  of  Credit  Risk.  The  disclosure
     guidance in this FSP is  effective  for interim and annual  periods  ending
     after  December  19,  2005.  The FSP states that the terms of certain  loan
     products  may  increase a  reporting  entity's  exposure to credit risk and
     thereby may result in a  concentration  of credit risk as that term is used
     in SFAS No.  107,  either as an  individual  product  type or as a group of
     products with similar  features.  SFAS No. 107 requires  disclosures  about
     each significant  concentration,  including "information about the (shared)
     activity,   region,   or  economic   characteristic   that  identifies  the
     concentration."  The FSP suggests possible shared  characteristics on which
     significant  concentrations  may be determined  which include,  but are not
     limited  to  (1)  loans  that  subject  borrowers  to  significant  payment
     increases, (2) loans with terms that permit negative amortization,  and (3)
     loans with high loan-to-value ratios. This FSP requires entities to provide
     the  disclosures  required  by SFAS  No.  107 for  loan  products  that are
     determined to represent a  concentration  of credit risk in accordance with
     the  guidance of this FSP for all periods  presented.  The Company  adopted
     this disclosure standard effective December 31, 2005.

     Other accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by the FASB or
     other standards-setting  bodies that do not require adoption until a future
     date  are  not  expected  to have a  material  impact  on the  consolidated
     financial statements upon adoption.

NOTE 2 - RESTRICTIONS ON CASH AND DUE FROM BANKS

          The Banks are required to maintain  average reserve  balances with the
Federal  Reserve Bank ("FRB") based upon a percentage  of deposits.  The average
amounts of reserve  balances  maintained  by the Banks at December  31, 2005 and
2004 were approximately $3,070,000 and $2,934,000, respectively.

(Continued)

71

NOTE 3 - SECURITIES

         Securities are summarized as follows as of December 31 (tabular amounts
in thousands):

(Continued)

72

NOTE 3 - SECURITIES, Continued

The following table shows gross  unrealized  losses and fair value,
aggregated by investment category, and length of time that individual securities
have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, at December 31, 2005.

Securities Available for Sale (tabular amounts in thousands):

Sixty-two individual  securities were in a continuous loss position
for twelve months or more.

Securities Held to Maturity (tabular amounts in thousands):

Eight  individual  securities  were in a continuous  loss  position for
twelve months or more.

         The Company has the ability and intent to hold these  securities  until
such time as the value recovers or the securities  mature. The Company believes,
based on industry analyst reports and credit ratings,  that the deterioration in
value is  attributable to changes in market interest rates and not in the credit
quality  of  the  issuer  and   therefore,   these  losses  are  not  considered
other-than-temporary.

(Continued)

73

NOTE 3 - SECURITIES, Continued

Other Investments, at Cost (tabular amounts in thousands):
            The Banks, as member institutions, are required to own certain stock
investments in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta ("FHLB") and the FRB. These
investments are carried at cost and are generally pledged against any borrowings
from these  institutions  (see Note 9). No ready market exists for the stock and
they  have no quoted  market  values.  The  Company's  investments  in stock are
summarized below (tabular amounts in thousands):

                                                            December 31,
                                                            ------------
                                                        2005            2004
                                                        ----            ----

FRB ......................................             $  396          $  396
FHLB .....................................              1,649           1,269
Bankers Bank .............................                152             144
                                                       ------          ------
                                                       $2,197          $1,809
                                                       ======          ======

            Securities  with carrying  amounts of $54,936,000 and $57,887,000 at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were pledged to secure public deposits
and for other purposes required or permitted by law.

NOTE 4 - LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

            Loans are summarized as follows (tabular amounts in thousands):

                                                                 December 31,
                                                                 ------------
                                                               2005       2004
                                                               ----       ----
Commercial and industrial - not secured by real estate ...   $ 39,669   $ 39,723
Commercial and industrial - secured by real estate .......     90,186     95,965
Residential real estate - mortgage .......................    107,398    105,580
Residential real estate - construction ...................    121,048     63,380
Loans to individuals for household,
  family and other personal expenditures .................     19,194     21,255
                                                             --------   --------
                                                              377,495    325,903
Less allowance for loan losses ...........................      3,854      3,691
                                                             --------   --------

                                                             $373,641   $322,212
                                                             ========   ========

         The  composition  of gross loans by rate type is as  follows:
(tabular amounts in thousands):

                                                             December 31,
                                                             ------------
                                                        2005              2004
                                                        ----              ----
Variable rate loans ......................           $194,904           $167,430
Fixed rate loans .........................            182,591            158,473
                                                     --------           --------
                                                     $377,495           $325,903
                                                     ========           ========

(Continued)

74

NOTE 4 - LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES, Continued

            Changes in the allowance for loan losses were as follows:

                                              For the years ended December 31,
                                              --------------------------------
                                             2005          2004           2003
                                             ----          ----           ----
BALANCE, BEGINNING OF YEAR ...........     $  3,691      $  3,438      $  2,850
     Provision for loan losses .......          848           589         1,106
     Loans charged off ...............         (704)         (448)         (565)
     Loans recovered .................           19           112            47
                                           --------      --------      --------
BALANCE, END OF YEAR .................     $  3,854      $  3,691      $  3,438
                                           ========      ========      ========

            At  December  31,  2005  and  2004  nonaccrual   loans  amounted  to
$1,206,000   and   $670,000,   respectively.   Foregone   interest   income  was
approximately  $89,000,  $46,000 and $101,000 on nonaccrual loans for 2005, 2004
and 2003,  respectively.  There were no impaired  loans at December 31, 2005 and
2004.

NOTE 5 - PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

            The principal  categories and estimated useful lives of premises and
equipment are summarized below (tabular amounts in thousands):

                                                               December 31,
                                             Estimated         ------------
                                            useful lives      2005        2004
                                            ------------      ----        ----

Land ....................................                   $ 2,195      $ 2,145
Building and improvements ...............  15 - 40 years      7,622        7,369
Furniture, fixtures and equipment .......  3 - 10 years       7,267        7,082
                                                            -------      -------
                                                             17,084       16,596
Less accumulated depreciation ...........                     6,449        5,521
                                                            -------      -------
                                                            $10,635      $11,075
                                                            =======      =======

         Depreciation  expense  of  approximately  $1,127,000,   $1,075,000  and
$967,000 for 2005,  2004 and 2003,  respectively,  is included in occupancy  and
equipment expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.

NOTE 6 - DEPOSITS
            The  composition  of  deposits  is as  follows  (tabular  amounts in
thousands):
                                                               December 31,
                                                               ------------
                                                           2005            2004
                                                           ----            ----

Demand deposits, noninterest bearing .............       $ 52,467       $ 51,507
NOW and money market accounts ....................        102,225         95,604
Savings deposits .................................         11,294         11,964
Time certificates, $100,000 or more ..............         99,255         81,015
Other time certificates ..........................        125,108        106,055
                                                         --------       --------

         Total ...................................       $390,349       $346,145
                                                         ========       ========

(Continued)

75

NOTE 6 - DEPOSITS, Continued

                                                               December 31,
                                                               ------------
                                                           2005            2004
                                                           ----            ----
Time certificates maturing
     Within one year .............................       $127,271       $110,298
     After one but within two years ..............         78,344         41,786
     After two but within three years ............         17,844         32,385
     After three but within four years ...........            527          1,780
     After four years ............................            377            821
                                                         --------       --------
                                                          224,363        187,070

Transaction and savings accounts .................        165,986        159,075
                                                         --------       --------
                                                         $390,349       $346,145
                                                         ========       ========

         Certificates  of deposit in excess of  $100,000  totaled  approximately
$89,607,000  and  $81,015,000  at  December  31,  2005 and  2004,  respectively.
Interest   expense  on  certificates  of  deposit  in  excess  of  $100,000  was
approximately, $2,893,000 in 2005, $2,422,000 in 2004 and $2,247,000 in 2003.

         The Banks had no brokered time  certificates,  at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively.

NOTE 7 - SECURITIES SOLD UNDER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS

         Securities sold under  repurchase  agreements are summarized as follows
(tabular amounts in thousands):

The  Banks  enter  into  sales of  securities  under  agreements  to
repurchase.  These  obligations to repurchase  securities  sold are reflected as
liabilities in the consolidated  balance sheets. The dollar amount of securities
underlying  the  agreements  remains  in  the  asset  accounts.  The  securities
underlying the agreements are book entry securities  maintained by a safekeeping
agent.  The weighted  average interest rate of these agreements was 1.94 percent
and 1.07 percent for 2005 and 2004,  respectively.  The agreements mature daily.
Securities  sold  under  agreements  to  repurchase  averaged   $31,594,000  and
$31,856,000 during 2005 and 2004, respectively.  The maximum amounts outstanding
at any  month-end  were  $34,757,000  and  $36,243,000  during  2005  and  2004,
respectively.

NOTE 8- FEDERAL FUNDS PURCHASED

            At December 31, 2005, the Banks had the ability to purchase  federal
funds  from  unrelated   banks  under   short-term   lines  of  credit  totaling
$30,750,000. These lines of credit are available on a one to seven day basis for
general corporate purposes.  At December 31, 2005 and 2004, there was $4,039,000
and $572,000, respectively, outstanding under such agreements.

76

NOTE 9 - ADVANCES FROM FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK

            The Banks have the ability to borrow up to 20 percent of their total
assets from the FHLB subject to available qualifying collateral.  Borrowings may
be obtained under various FHLB lending  programs with various terms.  Borrowings
from the FHLB require  qualifying  collateral  (which includes  certain mortgage
loans,  investment  securities  and  FHLB  stock)  and  may  require  purchasing
additional stock in the FHLB.

            The Banks had advances  aggregating  $17,500,000  and  $8,500,000 at
December  31,  2005  and  2004,  respectively.  At  December  31,  2005 and 2004
respectively,  the Banks had  $12,500,000 and $3,500,000 of advances at interest
rates of 4.44 and 1.63 percent and which matured daily. At December 31, 2005 and
2004,  $5,000,000  of the advances  bear  interest at 4.82 percent and mature in
December 2010. At December 31, 2005 and 2004,  the advances were  collateralized
by  qualifying   mortgage  loans  aggregating   approximately   $68,112,000  and
$61,445,000,  respectively,  and by FHLB stock owned by all three  Banks.  As of
December 31, 2005, the Banks had the ability to borrow an additional $57,750,000
in the aggregate from the FHLB.

NOTE 10 - INCOME TAXES

             Provision  for income  taxes  consists  of the  following  (tabular
amounts in thousands):

                                             For the years ended December 31,
                                             --------------------------------
                                             2005           2004          2003
                                             ----           ----          ----
Current tax provision
    Federal ..........................      $ 1,474       $ 1,703       $ 2,736
    State ............................          188           160           229
                                            -------       -------       -------

      Total current taxes ............        1,662         1,863         2,965
Deferred tax benefit .................          (10)         (209)          (97)
                                            -------       -------       -------

                                            $ 1,652       $ 1,654       $ 2,868
                                            =======       =======       =======

             Income taxes  differ from the tax expense  computed by applying the
statutory  federal  income tax rate of 34 percent to income before income taxes.
The reasons for these differences are as follows (tabular amounts in thousands):

                                                For the years ended December 31,
                                                --------------------------------
                                                    2005      2004         2003
                                                    ----      ----         ----
Tax expense at statutory rate .................   $ 1,965    $ 1,762    $ 2,690
Increase (decrease) in taxes resulting from:
    State income taxes, net of federal benefit        124        104        149
    Tax-exempt interest income ................       (77)       (79)       (61)
    Investment in life insurance ..............      (120)      (159)       (32)
    Other .....................................      (240)        26        122
                                                  -------    -------    -------

      Provision for income taxes ..............   $ 1,652    $ 1,654    $ 2,868
                                                  =======    =======    =======

                                                                     (Continued)

77

NOTE 10 - INCOME TAXES, Continued

         Deferred tax assets (liabilities) result from temporary  differences in
the  recognition  of  revenue  and  expenses  for  tax and  financial  statement
purposes.  Management  believes  realization  of the deferred tax assets is more
likely than not and  accordingly  has not  recorded a valuation  allowance.  The
sources and the  cumulative tax effect of temporary  differences  are as follows
(tabular amounts in thousands):

                                                             December 31,
                                                             ------------
                                                         2005            2004
                                                         ----            ----
Deferred tax assets
    Allowance for loan losses ....................       $ 1,318        $ 1,255
    Deferred compensation ........................           138            194
    Unrealized holding losses on
      securities available for sale ..............           439            237
    Other ........................................             -             48
                                                         -------        -------
                                                           1,895          1,734
                                                         -------        -------
Deferred tax liabilities
    Depreciation .................................          (351)          (502)
    Other ........................................          (100)             -
                                                         -------        -------
                                                            (451)          (502)
                                                         -------        -------
Net deferred tax assets included
  in other assets ................................       $ 1,444        $ 1,232
                                                         =======        =======

NOTE 11 - FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK

         The Banks are parties to financial  instruments with off-balance  sheet
risk in the  normal  course of  business  to meet the  financing  needs of their
customers.  These financial instruments include commitments to extend credit and
standby letters of credit. They involve, to varying degrees,  elements of credit
and  interest  rate risk in  excess of the  amounts  recognized  in the  balance
sheets.

         The Company's exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by
the other party to the financial instrument for commitments to extend credit and
standby  letters of credit is  represented by the  contractual  amounts of those
instruments. The Company uses the same credit policies in making commitments and
conditional obligations as it does for on-balance sheet instruments.

         Commitments  to extend  credit are  agreements to lend to a customer as
long as there is no  violation  of any  material  condition  established  in the
contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination
clauses and may require the  payment of a fee. At December  31,  2005,  unfunded
commitments to extend credit were  $111,082,000,  of which  $105,520,000 were at
variable rates and $5,562,000 were at fixed rates.  These  commitments  included
$44,153,000  of  unfunded   amounts  of  construction   loans,   $39,744,000  of
undisbursed  amounts of home  equity  lines of credit,  $20,338,000  of unfunded
amounts under commercial lines of credit, and $6,847,000 of other commitments to
extend credit.  The Company  evaluates  each  customer's  creditworthiness  on a
case-by-case  basis. The amount of collateral  obtained,  if deemed necessary by
the Company upon extension of credit, is based on management's credit evaluation
of  the  borrower.  Collateral  varies  but  may  include  accounts  receivable,
inventory,  property,  plant and  equipment,  commercial  and  residential  real
estate.

         At December 31, 2005,  there was $6,742,000  committed under letters of
credit. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the
same as that involved in extending  loan  facilities  to  customers.  Collateral
varies but may include accounts  receivable,  inventory,  equipment,  marketable
securities  and  property.  Since most of the letters of credit are  expected to
expire without being drawn upon, they do not necessarily  represent  future cash
requirements.  The Company has not recorded a liability for the current carrying
amount of the obligation to perform as a guarantor,  and no contingent liability
was considered necessary, as such amounts were not considered material.

78

NOTE 12 - COMMITMENTS AND  CONTINGENCIES

         The Company has, from time to time, various lawsuits and claims arising
from the conduct of its business.  Management does not expect such items to have
any material  adverse effect on the financial  position or results of operations
of the Company.

         Financial  instruments,   which  potentially  subject  the  Company  to
concentrations  of  credit  risk,  consist   principally  of  loans  receivable,
investment securities, federal funds sold and amounts due from banks.

         The Company makes loans to individuals and small businesses for various
personal  and  commercial  purposes  primarily  in the  upstate  region of South
Carolina.  The  Company's  loan  portfolio is not  concentrated  in loans to any
single  borrower or in a  relatively  small number of  borrowers.  Additionally,
management is not aware of any  concentrations  of loans to classes of borrowers
or industries that would be similarly affected by economic conditions.

         In  addition  to  monitoring  potential   concentrations  of  loans  to
particular borrowers or groups of borrowers,  industries and geographic regions,
management  monitors  exposure to credit  risk that could  arise from  potential
concentrations  of lending  products  and  practices  such as loans that subject
borrowers to substantial  payment  increases (e.g.  principal  deferral periods,
loans  with  initial   interest-only   periods,   etc),   and  loans  with  high
loan-to-value  ratios.  Additionally,  there are industry  practices  that could
subject the Company to increased credit risk should economic  conditions  change
over the course of a loan's life.  For example,  the Company makes variable rate
loans and fixed rate  principal-amortizing  loans with  maturities  prior to the
loan being fully paid (i.e. balloon payment loans). These loans are underwritten
and monitored to manage the associated  risks.  Management  has determined  that
there is no concentration of credit risk associated with its lending policies or
practices.

         The Company's  investment portfolio consists principally of obligations
of the United States,  its agencies or its corporations  and general  obligation
municipal securities. In the opinion of management, there is no concentration of
credit risk in its  investment  portfolio.  The Company  places its deposits and
correspondent  accounts  with  and  sells  its  federal  funds  to high  quality
institutions.  Management  believes credit risk  associated  with  correspondent
accounts is not significant.

NOTE 13 - RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

         At December 31, 2005 and 2004, certain officers, directors,  employees,
related  parties and companies in which they have 10 percent or more  beneficial
ownership,  were indebted to the Banks in the aggregate amount of $7,961,000 and
$7,533,000, respectively. During 2005, $2,443,000 of new loans were made to this
group and repayments of $2,015,000  were received.  This same group had deposits
in the Banks of $8,174,000 at December 31, 2005.

NOTE 14 - COMMON STOCK AND EARNINGS PER SHARE

         SFAS No. 128,  Earnings  per Share  requires  that the Company  present
basic and diluted net income per common share.  The assumed  conversion of stock
options  creates the difference  between basic and diluted net income per common
share.  Income per share is  calculated  by dividing  net income by the weighted
average  number of common  shares  outstanding  for each period  presented.  The
weighted  average number of common shares  outstanding  for basic net income per
common share was 6,222,324 in 2005, 6,113,738 in 2004 and 6,090,355 in 2003. The
weighted average number of common shares  outstanding for diluted net income per
common share was 6,368,083 in 2005, 6,336,152 in 2004 and 6,316,624 in 2003.

                                                                     (Continued)

79

NOTE 14 - COMMON STOCK AND EARNINGS PER SHARE, Continued

            The Company  declared or issued five percent common stock  dividends
in 2005, 2004 and 2003. Additionally, the Company effected a 3-for-2 stock split
in October 2004.  Upon  issuance of the 3-for-2  stock split,  the Company filed
articles of amendment to its Articles of Incorporation increasing its authorized
shares from 10,000,000 to 15,000,000 and decreasing its par value from $1.67 per
share to $1.11 per  share.  Net income and  dividends  per common  share and the
weighted  average number of common shares  outstanding for basic and diluted net
income  per common  share in prior  years have been  restated  to reflect  these
transactions.

NOTE 15 - RESTRICTION OF DIVIDENDS

         The  ability of the Company to pay cash  dividends  is  dependent  upon
receiving  cash  in the  form of  dividends  from  the  Banks.  Federal  banking
regulations restrict the amount of dividends that can be paid and such dividends
are payable only from the retained  earnings of the Banks.  At December 31, 2005
the Banks had aggregate retained earnings of $24,882,000.

NOTE 16 - STOCK OPTION COMPENSATION PLANS

         A summary of the status of the plans as of December 31, 2005,  2004 and
2003, and changes during the years ending on those dates is presented below (all
shares and exercise  prices have been adjusted for stock dividends and the stock
split):

80

NOTE 16 - STOCK OPTION COMPENSATION PLANS, Continued

                Options Outstanding                       Options Exercisable
                -------------------                       -------------------
                       Weighted
                        average        Weighted                         Weighted
                       remaining        average                          average
     Number           contractual      exercise         Number          exercise
  outstanding            life            price        exercisable         price
  -----------            ----            -----        -----------         -----

   104,670           1.3 years         $  3.87           104,670       $  3.87
     3,306           2.3 years            5.88             3,306          5.88
    32,692           2.6 years            5.88            32,692          5.88
    12,163           2.8 years            5.88            12,163          5.88
     8,416           3.3 years            7.13             8,416          7.13
    12,012           4.3 years            8.99            12,012          8.99
     5,984           5.1 years            9.41             4,693          9.41
     2,870           5.2 years            8.49             2,440          8.49
    11,460           5.4 years            8.38            11,460          8.38
     1,913           5.6 years            8.36             1,626          8.36
     3,826           5.7 years            8.13             3,252          8.13
    12,740           6.4 years            9.75            12,740          9.75
    10,403           6.6 years           10.30             7,024         10.30
    10,404           7.4 years           11.53            10,404         11.53
    31,618           8.4 years           14.21            18,594         14.21
     1,654           8.7 years           15.11               662         15.11
     1,654           8.8 years           16.23               662         16.23
     3,150           9.1 years           19.76               788         19.76
     7,350           9.3 years           17.24             7,350         17.24
     1,050           9.6 years           16.29               263         16.29
     2,100           9.7 years           16.43               526         16.43
     5,250           9.8 years           16.43             1,313         16.43
     1,575           10.0 years          15.51               394         15.51
   -------                                               -------
   288,260                                               257,450
   =======                                               =======

             The  plans  are  administered  by the  Board of  Directors  or by a
committee  designated  by the  Board.  The plans  provide  that if the shares of
common stock shall be subdivided or combined into a greater or smaller number of
shares  or if the  Company  shall  issue any  shares of common  stock as a stock
dividend on its outstanding  common stock,  the number of shares of common stock
deliverable  upon the  exercise  of  options  shall be  increased  or  decreased
proportionately, and appropriate adjustments shall be made in the purchase price
per share to reflect such subdivision, combination or stock dividend.

81

NOTE 17 - EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

            The Company  maintains  a 401(k)  retirement  plan for all  eligible
employees.  Upon ongoing approval of the Board of Directors, the Company matches
employee  contributions  equal to fifty percent of the first six percent of such
contributions, subject to certain adjustments and limitations.  Contributions to
the plan of $142,255,  $136,526 and $135,619,  were charged to operations during
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

            Supplemental  benefits  have been approved by the Board of Directors
for certain executive  officers of The Peoples National Bank. These benefits are
not qualified under the Internal Revenue Code and they are not funded.  However,
certain  funding  is  provided  informally  and  indirectly  by  life  insurance
policies.  The Company  recorded  expense  related to these benefits of $74,383,
$495,210 and $173,997, in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.

NOTE 18 - REGULATORY MATTERS

         The  Banks are  subject  to  various  regulatory  capital  requirements
administered  by the federal banking  agencies.  Failure to meet minimum capital
requirements   can  initiate   certain   mandatory,   and  possibly   additional
discretionary,  actions by regulators  that, if undertaken,  could have a direct
material  effect on the Banks'  financial  statements.  Under  capital  adequacy
guidelines and the regulatory  framework for prompt corrective action, the Banks
must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative  measures of the
Banks' assets,  liabilities,  and certain  off-balance sheet items as calculated
under  regulatory   accounting   practices.   The  Banks'  capital  amounts  and
classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about
components, risk weighting, and other factors.

         Quantitative  measures  established  by  regulation  to ensure  capital
adequacy  require the Banks to maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in
the table  below) of total and Tier 1 capital to  risk-weighted  assets,  and of
Tier 1 capital to average assets.  Management believes, as of December 31, 2005,
that the Banks meet all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject.

         As of December 31, 2005, the most recent  notification  from the Office
of the  Comptroller of the Currency  categorized  the Banks as well  capitalized
under the  regulatory  framework  for  prompt  corrective  action.  There are no
conditions  or events since that  notification  that  management  believes  have
changed the Banks' categories.  The Banks' actual capital amounts and ratios and
minimum regulatory amounts and ratios are presented as follows:

82

NOTE 18 - REGULATORY MATTERS, Continued

83

NOTE 19 - FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

         SFAS No. 107,  Disclosures  about Fair Value of  Financial  Instruments
requires disclosure of fair value information,  whether or not recognized in the
balance  sheets,  when it is practical to estimate the fair value.  SFAS No. 107
defines a financial  instrument as cash, evidence of an ownership interest in an
entity or  contractual  obligations  which require the exchange of cash or other
financial  instruments.   Certain  items  are  specifically  excluded  from  the
disclosure  requirements,  including  the Company's  common stock,  premises and
equipment and other assets and liabilities.

         Fair value  approximates  carrying  value for the  following  financial
instruments due to the short-term  nature of the  instrument:  cash and due from
banks,  interest-bearing  deposits  in other  banks and  federal  funds sold and
purchased.

         Securities   are  valued  using  quoted  fair  market   prices.   Other
investments are valued at par value.

         Fair value for variable rate loans that reprice frequently,  loans held
for sale,  and for loans that  mature in less than three  months is based on the
carrying value.  Fair value for fixed rate mortgage loans,  personal loans,  and
all other loans (primarily  commercial)  maturing after three months is based on
the discounted present value of the estimated future cash flows.  Discount rates
used in these  computations  approximate the rates currently offered for similar
loans of comparable terms and credit quality.

         Fair value for demand deposit  accounts and  interest-bearing  accounts
with no fixed  maturity  date is equal to the  carrying  value.  Certificate  of
deposit accounts and securities sold under repurchase agreements maturing within
one year are valued at their  carrying  value.  The fair value of certificate of
deposit accounts and securities sold under repurchase  agreements maturing after
one year are estimated by discounting cash flows from expected  maturities using
current interest rates on similar instruments.

         Fair value for  long-term  FHLB  advances is based on  discounted  cash
flows using the Company's  current  incremental  borrowing rate.  Discount rates
used in these  computations  approximate  rates  currently  offered  for similar
borrowings of comparable terms and credit quality.

         Fair value of off-balance sheet instruments are based on fees currently
charged to enter into similar  arrangements;  taking into account the  remaining
terms of the agreement and the counterparties' credit standing.

         The Company has used  management's best estimate of fair value based on
the above  assumptions.  Thus, the fair values  presented may not be the amounts
which could be realized in an immediate sale or settlement of the instrument. In
addition,  any income  taxes or other  expenses  which  would be  incurred in an
actual sale or  settlement  are not taken into  consideration  in the fair value
presented.

         The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are as
follows (amounts in thousands):

(Continued)

                                       84

NOTE 19 - FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, Continued

NOTE 20 - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

         Following is condensed financial information of Peoples Bancorporation,
Inc. (parent company only) (tabular amounts in thousands):

CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
                                                               December 31,
                                                               ------------
                                                            2005           2004
                                                            ----           ----
ASSETS
    Cash .........................................        $ 1,644        $ 1,701
    Investment in bank subsidiaries ..............         39,307         36,680
    Other assets .................................            559            199
                                                          -------        -------
                                                          $41,510        $38,580
                                                          =======        =======
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
    Other liabilities ............................        $   339        $   340
    Shareholders' equity .........................         41,171         38,240
                                                          -------        -------
                                                          $41,510        $38,580
                                                          =======        =======

85

NOTE 20 - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION, Continued

                         CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                                                For the years ended December 31,
                                                --------------------------------
                                                   2005        2004        2003
                                                   ----        ----        ----
INCOME

    Fees and dividends from subsidiaries ......   $ 4,945    $ 4,271    $ 3,861
                                                  -------    -------    -------

EXPENSES
    Salaries and benefits .....................     2,970      2,205      1,996
    Occupancy .................................        25         22         22
    Equipment .................................       330        298        233
    Other operating ...........................       844        706        675
                                                  -------    -------    -------
                                                    4,169      3,231      2,926
EQUITY IN UNDISTRIBUTED NET INCOME OF BANK
    SUBSIDIARIES ..............................     2,974      2,478      4,091
                                                  -------    -------    -------
         Income before income taxes ...........     3,750      3,518      5,026

INCOME TAX BENEFIT ............................      (378)       (10)       (18)
                                                  -------    -------    -------
         Net income ...........................   $ 4,128    $ 3,528    $ 5,044
                                                  =======    =======    =======

                       CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

86

NOTE 21 - QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

               Unaudited  condensed  financial data by quarter for 2005 and 2004
is as follows (amounts, except share data, in thousands):

(1)  Per share data has been restated to reflect 5 percent stock dividends.
(2)  Per share data has been restated to reflect 3-for-2 stock split.

87

ITEM 9.  CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         There has been no occurrence requiring a response to this item.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

         Based on the evaluation required by 17 C.F.R. Section  240.13a-15(b) or
240.15d-15(b) of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
17 C.F.R.  Sections  240.13a-15(e)  and  240.15d-15(e))),  the  Company's  chief
executive  officer and chief financial  officer concluded that such controls and
procedures,  as of the end of the  year  covered  by this  annual  report,  were
effective.

         No disclosure is required under 17 C.F.R.  Section  229.308 (a) or (b).
There  has been no change  in the  Company's  internal  control  over  financial
reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or
is reasonably likely to materially  affect,  the Company's internal control over
financial reporting.

ITEM 9 B. OTHER INFORMATION

         The Company was not required to disclose any  information in a Form 8-K
during the fourth quarter of 2005 that was not so disclosed.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The information set forth under the caption "EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS" under
Part I, Item 1 of this report on Form 10-K, and the  information set forth under
the captions  "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS  AND  DIRECTORS  WHOSE TERMS WILL  CONTINUE
AFTER THE 2006 ANNUAL MEETING" and "SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING
COMPLIANCE"  in the  Proxy  Statement  to be used in  conjunction  with the 2006
Annual  Meeting of  Shareholders  (the "Proxy  Statement"),  which will be filed
within 120 days of the  Company's  fiscal  year end, is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

         James A.  Black,  Jr.,  age 74, has served as a director of the Company
since 2000 and as a director of Seneca  National Bank since 1999.  Mr. Black has
reached  mandatory  retirement  age for directors  under the  Company's  Bylaws.
Accordingly, Mr. Black has not been nominated for re-election at the 2006 annual
shareholder  meeting.  Mr. Black retired in 1997 as Vice President of the Barnes
Insurance Agency, Inc. in Easley, South Carolina.  In addition,  Mr. Black holds
an Honorary Doctorate of Humanities from North Greenville College.

88

William A Carr,  age 79, has served as a director  of the  Company  and
Peoples National Bank since 1992. Mr. Carr has reached mandatory  retirement age
for directors  under the Company's  Bylaws.  Accordingly,  Mr. Carr has not been
nominated  for  re-election  at the 2006 annual  shareholder  meeting.  Mr. Carr
served as mayor of the City of Easley,  South  Carolina  from April 1983 through
April 1999.

Audit Committee Financial Expert

         The Company's  board of directors has determined  that the Company does
not have an "audit committee  financial expert," as that term is defined by Item
401(h) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange  Commission,
serving on its audit committee.  The Company's audit committee is a committee of
directors who are elected by the  shareholders  and who are  independent  of the
Company and its  management.  After reviewing the experience and training of all
of the  Company's  independent  directors,  the board of directors has concluded
that  no  independent  director  meets  the  SEC's  very  demanding  definition.
Therefore, it would be necessary to find a qualified individual willing to serve
as both a  director  and  member of the  audit  committee  and have that  person
elected  by the  shareholders  in order to have an  "audit  committee  financial
expert" serving on the Company's audit committee.  The Company's audit committee
is,  however,  authorized to use  consultants  to provide  financial  accounting
expertise in any instance where members of the committee believe such assistance
would be useful. Accordingly, the Company does not believe that it needs to have
an "audit committee financial expert" on its audit committee.

Code of Ethics

         The Company has adopted a code of ethics that applies to the  Company's
principal executive officer,  principal financial officer,  principal accounting
officer,  controller,  or persons serving in equivalent  positions regardless of
whether they are designated executive officers.  The Company will provide a copy
of the Code of Ethics to any person, without charge, upon written request to the
Corporate  Secretary,  Peoples  Bancorporation,  Inc.,  1818 East  Main  Street,
Easley, South Carolina 29640.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         With the exception of information  set forth under the captions  "Board
Compensation  Committee  Report  on  Executive  Compensation"  and  "Performance
Graph,"  which  sub-sections  are not  incorporated  herein  by  reference,  the
information set forth under the caption  "EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION"  in the Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

89

ITEM 12.  SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS AND  MANAGEMENTAND
          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         The  information  set forth under the caption  "SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF
CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated
herein by reference.

         The following  table sets forth  aggregated  information as of December
31, 2005 about all of the Company's  compensation  plans  (including  individual
compensation  arrangements)  under which  equity  securities  of the Company are
authorized for issuance:

Plan category                  Number  of  securities  to  Weighted-average         Number of securities
                               be issued upon              exercise price of        remaining available for
                               exercise of                 outstanding options,     future issuance
                               outstanding options,        warrants and rights      under equity compensation
                               warrants and rights                                  plans (excluding
                                                                                    securities reflected in
                                                                                    column (a))
                                          (a)                        (b)                      (c)
- ------------------                  ---------------            --------------           -----------------
                                                                                            
Equity compensation
Plans approved by
Security holders ...........                288,260                     $ 7.92                   386,537

Equity compensation
Plans not approved
By security holders ........                      0                     $ 0.00                         0
                                            -------                     ------                   -------

Total ......................                288,260                     $ 7.92                   386,537

For further  information  about the Company's plans as set forth in the
above table, see Note 16 of the consolidated  financial  statements set forth in
Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         The information set forth under the caption  "CERTAIN  TRANSACTIONS" in
the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

         The  information  set forth under the caption  "INDEPENDENT  REGISTERED
PUBLIC  ACCOUNTING  FIRM" in the  Proxy  Statement  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

90

PART IV

         ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

          (a) (1) and (2) Financial Statements and Financial Schedules

         The  following   consolidated   financial   statements  and  report  of
independent  auditors  of Peoples  Bancorporation,  Inc.  and  subsidiaries  are
included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

         Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

         Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 2005 and 2004

         Consolidated Statements of Income - Years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
         and 2003

         Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows - Years ended December 31, 2005,
         2004 and 2003

         Consolidated  Statements  of  Shareholders'  Equity  and  Comprehensive
         Income - Years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - December 31, 2005

         (a) (3) Listing of Exhibits:

Exhibit No.             Description of Exhibit

3 (i)             Articles  of  Incorporation,   as  amended   (incorporated  by
                  reference  to  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended
                  September 30, 2004).

3(ii)             Bylaws  (incorporated by reference to exhibits to Registrant's
                  Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 20, 2005.

4.1               Specimen Common Stock  Certificate  (incorporated by reference
                  to exhibits to Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                  (Number 33-46649)).

10.2              Peoples Bancorporation, Inc. 1993 Incentive Stock Option Plan
                  (incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibits  to   Registrant's
                  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Number 333-121158)).

10.3              Peoples Bancorporation, Inc. 1997 Non-Employee Directors Stock
                  Option  Plan   (incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibits  to
                  Registrant's   Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-8  (Number
                  333-121157)).

91

10. 4             Peoples   Bancorporation,   Inc.   2004  Stock   Option   Plan
                  (incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibits  to   Registrant's
                  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Number 333-121156)).

10.5              Non-competition,  Severance and  Employment  Agreement,  dated
                  February 23, 2005  between the Company and R. Riggie  Ridgeway
                  (incorporated  by reference to Registrant's  Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 2004 (the "2004 10-K")).

10.6              Non-competition,  Severance and  Employment  Agreement,  dated
                  February  23,  2005  between  the  Company and William B. West
                  (incorporated by reference to the 2004 Form 10-K).

10.7              Non-competition,  Severance and  Employment  Agreement,  dated
                  February  23,  2005  between  the  Company  and C. Kyle Thomas
                  (incorporated by reference to the 2004 10-K).

10.8              Salary  Continuation  Agreement  between The Peoples  National
                  Bank and Ralph R.  Ridgeway,  dated July 7,  1998,  as amended
                  (incorporated  by reference to exhibits to  Registrant's  Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002).

10.9              Spit  Dollar  Agreement  between  the  Company  and  Ralph  R.
                  Ridgeway   (incorporated   by   reference   to   exhibits   to
                  Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002).

10.10             Non-competition,  Severance and  Employment  Agreement,  dated
                  April 8, 2005  between the  Company  and L. Andrew  Westbrook,
                  III.

21.               Subsidiaries of the Registrant  (incorporated  by reference to
                  exhibits to the 2004 10-K).

23.               Consent of Elliott Davis, LLC

31.1              Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certifications

31.2              Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certifications

32                Section 1350 Certifications

92
 
SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934,  the Registrant has caused this Report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                      Peoples Bancorporation, Inc.

Dated:  March 16, 2006                By:  s/R. Riggie Ridgeway
                                           -------------------------------------
                                               R. Riggie Ridgeway
                                               President and Chief
                                               Executive Officer

Dated:  March 16, 2006                 By: s/Robert E. Dye, Jr.
                                           -------------------------------------
                                                  Robert E. Dye. Jr.
                                               Senior Vice President and
                                               Chief Financial Officer
                                               (Principal Financial and
                                               Principal Accounting Officer)

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  Report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

              Signature             Title                        Date
              ---------             -----                        ----

                                   Director                   March __, 2006
- ---------------------------
James A. Black, Jr.

s/ William A. Carr                 Director                   March 16, 2006
- ---------------------------
William A. Carr
                                   Director                   March __, 2006
- ---------------------------
Charles E. Dalton

s/ Robert E. Dye, Jr.              Senior Vice                March 16, 2006
- ---------------------------        President, Secretary
Robert E. Dye, Jr.                 and Director

s/ W. Rutledge Galloway            Director                   March 16, 2006
- ---------------------------
W. Rutledge Galloway
                                   Director                   March __, 2006
- ---------------------------
Andrew M. McFall, III

s/ E. Smyth McKissick, III         Director                   March 16, 2006
- ---------------------------
E. Smyth McKissick, III

s/ Eugene W. Merritt, Jr.          Director                   March 16, 2006
- ---------------------------
Eugene W. Merritt, Jr.

s/ George B. Nalley, Jr.           Chairman and               March 16, 2006
- ---------------------------        Director
George B. Nalley, Jr.

s/ G. Weston Nalley                Director                   March 16, 2006
- ---------------------------
G. Weston Nalley
                                   Director                   March __, 2006
- ---------------------------
Larry D. Reeves

s/ R. Riggie Ridgeway              President, Chief           March 16, 2006
- ---------------------------        Executive Officer,
R. Riggie Ridgeway                 and Director

s/ William R. Rowan, III           Director                   March 16, 2006
- ---------------------------
William R. Rowan, III

s/ Nell W. Smith                   Director                   March 16, 2006
- ---------------------------
Nell W. Smith

s/ A. J. Thompson, Jr., M.D        Director                   March 16, 2006
- ---------------------------
A. J. Thompson, Jr., M. D.

s/ William B. West                 Executive Vice             March 16, 2006
- ---------------------------        President, Treasurer
William B. West                    and Director

                                       93

EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.                Description of Exhibit

3 (i)             Articles  of  Incorporation,   as  amended   (incorporated  by
                  reference  to  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended
                  September 30, 2004).

3(ii)             Bylaws  (incorporated by reference to exhibits to Registrant's
                  Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 20, 2005.

4.1               Specimen Common Stock  Certificate  (incorporated by reference
                  to exhibits to Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                  (Number 33-46649)).

10.2              Peoples Bancorporation, Inc. 1993 Incentive Stock Option Plan
                  (incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibits  to   Registrant's
                  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Number 333-121158)).

10.3              Peoples Bancorporation, Inc. 1997 Non-Employee Directors Stock
                  Option  Plan   (incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibits  to
                  Registrant's   Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-8  (Number
                  333-121157)).

10.4              Peoples   Bancorporation,   Inc.   2004  Stock   Option   Plan
                  (incorporated   by  reference  to  exhibits  to   Registrant's
                  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Number 333-121156)).

10.5              Non-competition,  Severance and  Employment  Agreement,  dated
                  February 23, 2005  between the Company and R. Riggie  Ridgeway
                  (incorporated  by reference to Registrant's  Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 2004 (the "2004 10-K")).

10.6              Non-competition,  Severance and  Employment  Agreement,  dated
                  February  23,  2005  between  the  Company and William B. West
                  (incorporated by reference to the 2004 Form 10-K).

10.7              Non-competition,  Severance and  Employment  Agreement,  dated
                  February  23,  2005  between  the  Company  and C. Kyle Thomas
                  (incorporated by reference to the 2004 10-K).

10.8              Salary  Continuation  Agreement  between The Peoples  National
                  Bank and Ralph R.  Ridgeway,  dated July 7,  1998,  as amended
                  (incorporated  by reference to exhibits to  Registrant's  Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002).

10.9              Spit  Dollar  Agreement  between  the  Company  and  Ralph  R.
                  Ridgeway   (incorporated   by   reference   to   exhibits   to
                  Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002).

10.10             Non-competition,  Severance and  Employment  Agreement,  dated
                  April 8, 2005  between the  Company  and L. Andrew  Westbrook,
                  III.

21.               Subsidiaries of the Registrant  (incorporated  by reference to
                  exhibits to the 2004 10-K).

23.               Consent of Elliott Davis, LLC

31.1              Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certifications

31.2              Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certifications

32                Section 1350 Certifications

94

<EX-10>
 2
 peoples10k06ex10-10.txt
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.10

NOTICE: THIS AGREEMENT IS SUBJECT TO ARBITRATION PURSUANT
                  TO THE SOUTH CAROLINA UNIFORM ARBITRATION ACT

NONCOMPETITION, SEVERANCE AND EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

         This   Noncompetition,   Severance  and  Employment   Agreement   (this
"Agreement") is made and entered into as of this 8th day of April,  2005, by and
among L.  Andrew  Westbrook,  III,  an  individual  (the  "Executive"),  Peoples
Bancorporation,  Inc., a South Carolina  corporation  (the  "Company"),  and the
Company's  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  The Peoples National Bank, a national bank
(the "Bank").

         WHEREAS, the Company desires that the Bank employ, and the Bank desires
to employ, the Executive as President of the Bank;

         WHEREAS, the Executive is willing to accept the employment contemplated
herein under the terms and conditions set forth herein.

         NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the  premises  and  the  mutual
covenants  and  agreements   contained   herein  and  other  good  and  valuable
consideration,  the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged,  the parties hereto
agree as follows:

     1. Employment.  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Bank hereby
employs the Executive and the Executive  hereby  accepts such  employment as the
President of the Bank, having such duties and  responsibilities as are set forth
in Section 3 below.

     2. Definitions.  For purposes of this Agreement,  the following terms shall
have the meanings specified below.

         "Change  of  Control"  shall  mean the  occurrence  during the Term (as
defined in Section 4 hereof) of any of the following events:

          (a) An  acquisition  (other  than  directly  from the  Company) of any
     voting securities of the Company (the "Voting  Securities") by any "Person"
     (as the term person is used for  purposes of Section  13(d) or 14(d) of the
     Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"))  immediately after which
     such Person has  "beneficial  ownership"  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3
     promulgated under the 1934 Act) of 50% or more of the combined voting power
     of the Company's then outstanding  Voting  Securities;  provided,  however,
     that in  determining  whether  a Change of  Control  has  occurred,  Voting
     Securities   which  are  acquired  in  a  "Non-Control   Acquisition"   (as
     hereinafter  defined) shall not constitute an acquisition which would cause
     a Change of Control. A "Non-Control  Acquisition" shall mean an acquisition
     by (i) an  employee  benefit  plan  (or a  trust  forming  a part  thereof)
     maintained  by (x) the Company or (y) any  corporation  or other  Person of
     which a majority  of its voting  power or its equity  securities  or equity
     interest is owned  directly or indirectly by the Company (a  "Subsidiary"),
     (ii) the Company or any Subsidiary,  or (iii) any Person in connection with
     a "Non-Control Transaction" (as hereinafter defined); or

          (b) The individuals who, as of the date of this Agreement, are members
     of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Incumbent  Board") cease for
     any reason to constitute  at least  two-thirds of the Board of the Company;
     provided,  however, that if the election, or nomination for election by the
     Company's  stockholders,  of any new  director was approved by a vote of at
     least  two-thirds  of the Incumbent  Board,  such new director  shall,  for
     purposes of this  Agreement,  be  considered  as a member of the  Incumbent
     Board; or

(c) Consummation of:

               (1)  A merger,  consolidation  or  reorganization  involving  the
                    Company, unless

                    i)   the  stockholders  of the Company,  immediately  before
                         such  merger,  consolidation  or  reorganization,  own,
                         directly  or  indirectly,  immediately  following  such
                         merger, consolidation or reorganization,  more than 50%
                         of the combined voting power of the outstanding  voting
                         securities  of  the  corporation  resulting  from  such
                         merger  or   consolidation   or   reorganization   (the
                         "Surviving  Corporation")  in  substantially  the  same
                         proportion as their ownership of the Voting  Securities
                         immediately   before  such  merger,   consolidation  or
                         reorganization, and

                    ii)  the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board
                         immediately  prior to the  execution  of the  agreement
                         providing   for   such   merger,    consolidation    or
                         reorganization  constitute  at least  two-thirds of the
                         members  of the  board of  directors  of the  Surviving
                         Corporation.

     (A  transaction  described  in clauses  (c)(1)(i)  and (ii) shall herein be
     referred to as a "Non-Control Transaction"); or

               (2)  A complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or

               (3)  An  agreement  for the sale or other  disposition  of all or
                    substantially all of the assets of the Company to any Person
                    (other than a transfer to a Subsidiary); or

          (d) The  occurrence  of any other  event or  circumstance  that is not
     covered by subparagraphs  (a) through (c) above that the Board of Directors
     of the Company  determines affects the control of the Company and, in order
     to  implement  the  purposes  of this  Agreement,  as to which the Board of
     Directors adopts a resolution that such event or circumstance constitutes a
     Change of Control for purposes of this Agreement.

          (e)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  Agreement  to the
     contrary, if the Executive's  employment is terminated prior to a Change of
     Control and the Executive reasonably demonstrates that such termination (i)
     was at the request of a third party who has indicated an intention or taken
     steps  reasonably  calculated  to  effect  a  Change  of  Control  and  who
     effectuates  a Change  of  Control  (a  "Third  Party")  or (ii)  otherwise
     occurred in  connection  with, or in  anticipation  of, a Change of Control
     which actually occurs, then for all purposes of this Agreement, the date of
     a Change of  Control  with  respect  to the  Executive  shall mean the date
     immediately  prior  to the  date of  such  termination  of the  Executive's
     employment.

          "Cause" shall mean:

          (a) any act that  constitutes,  on the part of the Executive,  willful
     and continued  failure to implement or follow the  directives,  policies or
     procedures  of the Board of Directors  of the Company or the Bank,  willful
     violation  of any state or  federal  law or  regulation  applicable  to the
     Company  or  the  Bank,   gross   malfeasance  of  duty,   conduct  grossly
     inappropriate to the Executive's office, or a material willful violation of
     this Agreement, and which is demonstrably likely to lead to material injury
     to the Company or the Bank; or

          (b) any act that  resulted  or was  intended  to  result  in direct or
     indirect  gain to or personal  enrichment  of the Executive at the expense,
     direct or indirect, of the Company or the Bank; or

                                       2

(c) any act that  constitutes,  on the part of the  Executive,  fraud,
     dishonesty, moral turpitude, gross negligence, or intentional damage to the
     property or business of the Bank or the Company; or

          (d) the conviction (from which no appeal may be or is timely taken) of
     the Executive of a felony; or

          (e) the  suspension  or removal of the  Executive  by federal or state
     banking  regulatory  authorities  acting under lawful authority pursuant to
     provisions  of  federal or state law or  regulation  which may be in effect
     from time to time;

     provided,  however,  that in the case of clauses  (a) and (b)  above,  such
     conduct shall not constitute Cause:

               (x) unless (i) there shall have been delivered to the Executive a
          written  notice  setting forth with  specificity  the reasons that the
          Board of the  Company  believes  the  Executive's  conduct  meets  the
          criteria set forth in clause (a), (ii) the  Executive  shall have been
          provided  the  opportunity  to be heard in  person by the Board of the
          Company (with  assistance of the Executive's  counsel if the Executive
          so  desires),  and  (iii)  after  such  hearing,  the  termination  is
          evidenced by a resolution  adopted in good faith by  two-thirds of the
          members of the Board of the Company (other than the Executive); or

               (y) if such  conduct (i) was  believed by the  Executive  in good
          faith to have been in, or not opposed to, the interests of the Company
          and the Bank, and (ii) was not intended to, and did not, result in the
          direct or indirect gain to or personal enrichment of the Executive.

         "Confidential   Information"   shall  mean  all   business   and  other
information  relating  to the  business  of the  Company,  its  Subsidiaries  or
affiliates,  including  without  limitation,  technical or  non-technical  data,
programs,  methods,  techniques,  processes,  financial data,  financial  plans,
product  plans,  and lists of actual or potential  customers,  which (i) derives
economic value, actual or potential,  from not being generally known to, and not
being readily  ascertainable by proper means by, other Persons,  and (ii) is the
subject of efforts that are reasonable  under the  circumstances to maintain its
secrecy or  confidentiality.  Such  information and  compilations of information
shall be contractually subject to protection under this Agreement whether or not
such information constitutes a trade secret and is separately protectable at law
or in equity as a trade secret. Confidential Information does not include any of
the foregoing items which has become publicly known and made generally available
through no wrongful act of Executive or of others who were under confidentiality
obligations  as to the item or items  involved or  improvements  or new versions
thereof.

         "Disability" or "Disabled"  shall mean the  Executive's  inability as a
result of physical or mental incapacity to substantially  perform his duties for
the Bank on a full-time basis for a period of six (6) months as determined by an
independent  physician  selected with the approval of both the Executive and the
Bank.

         "Involuntary Termination" shall mean the termination of the Executive's
employment  by the Executive  within one year  following a Change of Control (a)
which is due to:  (i) a  material  change of the  Executive's  responsibilities,
position  (including  status as a President of a bank Subsidiary of the Company,
the Company's  successor or ultimate parent entity),  office,  title,  reporting
relationships  or working  conditions,  authority or duties  (including  changes
resulting from the assignment to the Executive of any duties  inconsistent  with
his positions,  duties or responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to the
Change of  Control);  or (ii) a  material  change in the  terms  (including  the
rolling  three year  termination  date) of this  Agreement;  or (iii) a material
reduction  in the  Executive's  compensation  or  benefits;  or  (iv)  a  forced
relocation of the Executive  outside the  Anderson/Easley/Greenville/Spartanburg
metropolitan  area;  or (v) a  significant  increase in the  Executive's  travel
requirements;  or (vi) the Company's  insolvency;  or (vii) the Company's or the
Bank's  breach  of any  material  provision  of this  Agreement;  and (b)  which

3

circumstance  has not been  cured  within 30 days after  written  notice of such
circumstance  has been  given  to the  Company  and the  Bank by the  Executive;
provided, however, if Executive has consented in writing to any of the events in
(i) through  (vii)  above,  or has not objected in writing to any of such events
within three months after the occurrence thereof, such event or events shall not
constitute the basis for treating the Executive's  termination of his employment
as an Involuntary Termination.

         "Person" shall mean any  individual,  corporation,  bank,  partnership,
joint  venture,   association,   joint-stock  company,   trust,   unincorporated
organization or other entity.

         "Voluntary  Termination"  shall mean the  termination  by  Executive of
Executive's  employment  within one year  following a Change of Control which is
not  the  result  of any of  clauses  (a)(i)  through  (vii)  set  forth  in the
definition of Involuntary Termination above.

     3. Duties. During the Term hereof, the Executive shall have such duties and
authority  as are  typical  of a  president  of a  company  such  as  the  Bank,
including,  without  limitation,  those  specified  in  the  Bank's  Bylaws  and
applicable  resolutions  and  policies  adopted by the  Company's  or the Bank's
respective Boards of Directors. Executive agrees that during the Term hereof, he
will devote his full time, attention and energies to the diligent performance of
his duties.  Executive  shall not,  without prior written consent of the Company
and the Bank, at any time during the Term hereof (i) accept  employment with, or
render services of a business,  professional or commercial nature to, any Person
other than the  Company  and the Bank;  (ii)  engage in any  venture or activity
which the Company or the Bank may in good faith consider to be competitive  with
or adverse to the business of the Company, the Bank or of any other affiliate of
the Company, whether alone, as a partner, or as an officer,  director,  employee
or  shareholder  or otherwise,  except that the ownership of not more than 5% of
the stock or other equity interest of any publicly  traded  corporation or other
entity shall not be deemed a violation of this  Section;  or (iii) engage in any
venture or activity  which the Board of Directors of the Company or the Bank may
in good faith consider to interfere with  Executive's  performance of his duties
hereunder;  provided, however, Executive shall only be deemed to be in breach of
(ii) or (iii) of this  section 3 after he has been given  written  notice by the
Board of  Directors  of the  Company or the Bank that such Board  believes he is
engaging in an impermissible  activity and the Executive has not terminated such
activity within 15 days after such notice.

     4. Term.  Unless  earlier  terminated as provided in this  Agreement,  this
Agreement  and the  Executive's  period of employment  hereunder  shall be for a
rolling term of three years (the  "Term")  commencing  on the date hereof,  with
compensation  to be effective as of the date of this  Agreement.  This Agreement
shall be deemed to  extend  each day for an  additional  day  automatically  and
without any action on behalf of any party hereto;  provided,  however,  that any
party may,  by notice to the  others,  cause this  Agreement  to cease to extend
automatically  and, upon such notice,  the "Term" of this Agreement shall be the
three  years  following  the  date of such  notice,  and  this  Agreement  shall
terminate upon the  expiration of such Term,  unless  Executive's  employment is
earlier terminated  pursuant to Section 5 hereof. If no such notice is given and
the Executive's  employment is terminated  pursuant to Section 5.1.3 hereof, for
the purposes of calculating  any amounts payable to the Executive as a result of
such  termination,  the remaining Term of this  Agreement  shall be deemed to be
three years from the date of such termination.

     5. Termination.  The Bank may terminate  Executive's  employment under this
Agreement at any time,  or Executive may  terminate  his  employment  under this
Agreement  at any time.  Executive's  sole  rights to  compensation  under  this
Agreement in the event of such termination are as set forth below:

                  5.1 By the Bank.  The Bank shall  have the right to  terminate
the Executive's  employment hereunder at any time and Executive's only rights to
compensation under this Agreement shall be as follows:

4

5.1.1 If the Bank terminates  Executive's  employment
under this Agreement for Cause or as a result of  Disability,  the Company's and
the Bank's  obligations  hereunder  shall  cease as of the date of  termination,
Executive  shall  have no right to  compensation  or other  benefits  under this
Agreement for any period after the date of  termination,  and Executive shall be
subject to the non-competition provisions set forth in section 10 hereof.

                           5.1.2 If the Bank terminates Executive other than for
Cause or as a result of  Disability  and  there  has been a Change  of  Control,
Executive  shall be entitled to receive,  as  severance,  immediately  upon such
termination,  the  compensation  and benefits  provided in Section 6 hereof that
would otherwise be payable over the three years subsequent to such termination.

                           5.1.3 If the Bank terminates Executive other than for
Cause or as a result of  Disability  and in the  absence of a Change of Control,
Executive  shall be entitled to receive,  as  severance,  immediately  upon such
termination,  the compensation and benefits provided in Section 6 hereof for the
remaining Term of this Agreement.

                           5.1.4 If the Bank terminates Executive other than for
Cause,  (A) all  rights of  Executive  pursuant  to  awards  of share  grants or
unexpired  options  granted  by the  Company or the Bank shall be deemed to have
vested  and  become  immediately  exercisable,  and shall be  released  from all
conditions and  restrictions  on transfer,  except for  restrictions on transfer
pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,  and (B) the Executive shall
be deemed to be credited  with service with the Bank for the same period of time
for which  benefits are  required to be paid under  Section  5.1.2 or 5.1.3,  as
applicable,  for the purposes of the Bank's  benefit plans,  including,  without
limitation,   any  restricted  stock  agreements  hereafter  entered  into  with
Executive.

                  5.2 By Executive.  Executive shall have the right to terminate
his employment  hereunder and Executive's only rights to compensation under this
Agreement shall be as follows:

                           5.2.1 If Executive terminates his employment and such
termination  does not  constitute  a  Voluntary  Termination  or an  Involuntary
Termination, the Company's and the Bank's obligations under this Agreement shall
cease  as of the  date of such  termination,  Executive  shall  have no right to
compensation  or other  benefits  under this  Agreement for any period after the
date of  termination,  and  Executive  shall be subject  to the  non-competition
provisions set forth in section 10 hereof.

                           5.2.2  If   Executive   terminates   his   employment
hereunder and such termination constitutes an Involuntary Termination, Executive
shall be entitled to receive  immediately  as  severance  the  compensation  and
benefits  provided in Section 6 hereof that would  otherwise be payable over the
three years subsequent to such Involuntary Termination.

                           5.2.3  If   Executive   terminates   his   employment
hereunder and such termination  constitutes a Voluntary  Termination,  Executive
shall be entitled to receive  immediately  as  severance  the  compensation  and
benefits  provided  in Section 6 hereof for one year  following  the date of his
Voluntary Termination.

                           5.2.4  In   addition,   in  the  event  of  Voluntary
Termination or Involuntary Termination,  (A) all rights of Executive pursuant to
awards of share grants or unexpired  options  granted by the Company or the Bank
shall be deemed to have vested and become immediately exercisable,  and shall be
released  from  all  conditions  and   restrictions  on  transfer,   except  for
restrictions on transfer pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
(B) the Executive  shall be deemed to be credited with service with the Bank for
the same period of time for which benefits are required to be paid under Section
5.2.2 or 5.2.3,  as  applicable,  for the purposes of the Bank's  benefit plans,
including, without limitation, any restricted stock agreements hereafter entered
into with Executive.

5

5.3 Executive's  Death. Upon Executive's  death, the Company's
and the Bank's  obligations  under this Agreement  shall  immediately  cease and
Executive  shall  have no right to  compensation  or other  benefits  under this
Agreement for any period after the date of death.  Upon  Executive's  death, all
rights of  Executive  pursuant to awards of share  grants or  unexpired  options
granted by the  Company  or the Bank  shall be deemed to have  vested and become
immediately  exercisable  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of the  plan  and/or
agreement  pursuant to which they were  granted,  and shall be released from all
conditions and  restrictions  on transfer,  except for  restrictions on transfer
pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

                  5.4   Calculation  of  Certain   Benefits.   For  purposes  of
determining  severance  payments  pursuant to Sections 5.1.2,  5.1.3,  5.2.2 and
5.2.3,  (i) the  amount of annual  salary  shall be deemed to be the  annualized
salary being paid immediately  prior to the termination,  (ii) the annual amount
of  unfixed  compensation  (such as a bonus)  shall be deemed to be equal to the
average of such compensation over the three year period immediately prior to the
termination,  and (iii) the annual amount of benefits  shall be deemed to be the
sum of the costs to the Company and the Bank of  providing  the  benefits to the
Executive  for  the  twelve  month  period  ending   immediately  prior  to  the
termination.

                  5.5   Applicability   of  Restrictions  on  Resale  under  the
Securities Act of 1933 or Section 16 of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 and
Terms of Exercise.  Any exercise of options  pursuant to Sections 5.1.4 or 5.2.4
and sale of shares  acquired on such exercise will continue to be subject to the
restrictions on resale under the Securities Act of 1933 and the rules thereunder
and to the short swing trading and reporting  requirements  of Section 16 of the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules  thereunder to the extent and for
the period of time  required by such Acts and rules.  Anything  set forth to the
contrary  notwithstanding  herein or in the plan or agreement  pursuant to which
the options were granted, in the event of termination of Executive's  employment
pursuant  to  Sections  5.1.2,  5.1.3 or 5.2.2,  Executive  shall have until the
earlier of (x) one year from the date of termination or (y) the expiration  date
of the options to exercise such stock option rights. In the event of termination
of Executive's employment other than pursuant to Sections 5.1.2, 5.1.3 or 5.2.2,
Executive  shall  have the  period of time  specified  in the plan or  agreement
pursuant to which options were granted to exercise such options.

     6.  Compensation.  In consideration  of Executive's  services and covenants
hereunder,  the Bank  shall  pay to  Executive  the  compensation  and  benefits
described below (which  compensation shall be paid in accordance with the normal
compensation  practices of the Bank and shall be subject to such  deductions and
withholdings  as are required by law or policies of the Bank in effect from time
to time,  provided that his salary  pursuant to section 6.1 shall be payable not
less frequently than monthly):

                  6.1 Annual Salary.  During the Term hereof, the Bank shall pay
to Executive a salary at a rate of  $200,000.00  per annum.  Executive's  salary
will be reviewed annually by the Board of Directors of the Bank at the beginning
of each of its  fiscal  years  and,  in the  sole  discretion  of the  Board  of
Directors of the Bank, may be increased for such year.

                  6.2 Annual Incentive Bonus.  During the Term hereof,  the Bank
shall pay to Executive an annual  incentive  cash bonus in  accordance  with the
terms of any incentive plans adopted by the Board of Directors of the Bank.

                  6.3  Stock  Options.  During  the Term  hereof,  the  Board of
Directors of the Company may grant Executive  options to purchase Company common
stock in accordance with the terms of the Company's stock option plans.

                  6.4 Other  Benefits.  Executive  shall be entitled to share in
any other employee  benefits  generally  provided by the Company and the Bank to
their most  highly  ranking  executives  for so long as the  Company or the Bank
provides such benefits.  The Bank shall also provide  Executive with a Bank-paid
automobile and reasonable  club dues for one country club.  Executive shall also
be entitled to participate in all other benefits  accorded  generally to Company
and Bank employees.

                                       6

6.5 Executive's Right To Benefits  Absolute.  The right of the
Executive to receive the benefits set forth in this Agreement  shall be absolute
and not subject to any right of set-off or counterclaim  the Company or the Bank
may have against Executive.

                  6.6 Discharge of Payment Obligation.  The Company's obligation
to make  any  payments  owed to the  Executive  under  this  Agreement  shall be
discharged  to the extent  such  payments  are made by the Bank,  and the Bank's
obligation to make any payments owed to the Executive under this Agreement shall
be discharged to the extent such payments are made by the Company.

         7.  Accelerated  Vesting of  Executive's  Stock  Options . Anything set
forth herein to the contrary  notwithstanding,  Executive's  stock options shall
vest  immediately  upon the  occurrence  of a  Change  of  Control,  even if the
Executive  remains  employed with the Company,  the Bank or any of the Company's
other Subsidiaries after a Change of Control.  However,  to the extent that this
Agreement  is  inconsistent  with the stock  option  plan  pursuant to which the
options were granted, the terms of such stock option plan shall control.

         8. Parachute Payments.

                  8.1  Golden  Parachute  Payments.  Notwithstanding  any  other
provision  of this  Agreement,  if any payment  provided  for in this  Agreement
would, if paid,  constitute a "golden parachute payment" as defined in 12 C.F.R.
ss. 359.1(f) as in effect on the date of this  Agreement,  the obligation of the
Company  or the Bank to make such  payment  shall be  subject  to an  additional
condition  that the  circumstances  which  cause  the  payment  to be a  "golden
parachute  payment"  shall have ceased to exist,  but such  payment  will become
payable in full at such time as the  condition is met together  with interest at
the prime rate, compounded annually,  from the date such payment would have been
due had it not been a "golden parachute payment" until paid.

                  8.2 Excess  Parachute  Payments.  It is the  intention  of the
parties to this  Agreement  that the severance  payments and other  compensation
provided for herein are reasonable  compensation for Executive's services to the
Bank and shall not constitute "excess parachute  payments" within the meaning of
Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In the event that
the Company,  on the date of a Change of Control,  determines  that the payments
provided  for  herein   constitute   "excess   parachute   payments,"  then  the
compensation payable under this Agreement shall be reduced to the point at which
such compensation shall not qualify as an "excess parachute payment."

         9. Confidentiality.

                  9.1  Company  and  Bank  Confidential  Information.  Executive
acknowledges  that, prior to and during the term of this Agreement,  the Company
and the Bank have  furnished  and will furnish to  Executive,  and the Executive
will  develop  for  the  benefit  of the  Company  and  the  Bank,  Confidential
Information  which could be used by Executive  on behalf of a competitor  of the
Company  or the  Bank to the  Company's  or the  Bank's  substantial  detriment.
Executive acknowledges that Confidential Information is the sole property of the
Company  and the Bank.  In view of the  foregoing,  Executive  acknowledges  and
agrees that the restrictive covenants contained in this Agreement are reasonably
necessary to protect the Company's and the Bank's legitimate  business interests
and  goodwill.  Executive  agrees that he shall  protect  and hold in  strictest
confidence the Company's and the Bank's  Confidential  Information and shall not
disclose to any Person,  or otherwise use,  except in connection with his duties
performed in  accordance  with this  Agreement,  any  Confidential  Information;
provided, however, that Executive may make disclosures required by a valid order
or  subpoena   issued  by  a  court  or   administrative   agency  of  competent
jurisdiction,  in  which  event  Executive  will,  if  permitted  to do so under
applicable  law,  promptly  notify  the  Company  and the Bank of such  order or
subpoena to provide the Company  and the Bank an  opportunity  to protect  their
interests,  and Executive  agrees to cooperate  with the Company and the Bank in
trying to protect their  interests.  Upon the  termination  or expiration of his
employment  hereunder,  the Executive  agrees to deliver promptly to the Company
and the Bank all of their respective files, customer lists,  management reports,
memoranda,  research,  forms,  financial  data and reports  and other  documents

7

supplied  to or  created  by him in  connection  with his  employment  hereunder
(including  all copies of the foregoing) in his possession or control and all of
the Company's  and Bank's  equipment  and other  materials in his  possession or
control.  This  section  9.1  shall  survive  for 24  months  after the later of
termination  of employment of Executive  with the Bank, the Company or any other
Subsidiary of the Company.

                  9.2 Third Party Confidential Information. Executive shall also
hold in the strictest  confidence all  confidential  or proprietary  information
that the  Company or the Bank has  received  from any third party to which it is
the Company's or the Bank's obligation to maintain the  confidentiality  of such
information,  and Executive  shall not disclose such  information to any Person,
firm or  corporation  or use it except as necessary in carrying out  Executive's
work for the Company or the Bank  consistent  with the  Company's  or the Bank's
agreement with such third party.

         10. Noncompetition.

                  10.1 In the Event of Termination  Without a Change of Control.
In the event that Executive's  employment with the Bank is terminated  either by
the Board of Directors of the Bank for Cause or by the Executive,  and there has
been no Change of Control,  then  Executive  shall not,  for a period of one (1)
year following such termination of employment:

                    (i)  become employed by any insured  depository  institution
                         that has customers or does business as follows:

                         (a)  has an  office  situated  in or an agent or agents
                              regularly  working  in any city in which  the Bank
                              has an  office  in which an agent or agents of the
                              Bank regularly work, or

                         (b)  has a significant number of offices situated in or
                              a significant  number of agents regularly  working
                              in any  city in which  the Bank has a  significant
                              number of offices or in which a significant number
                              of agents of the Bank regularly work, or

                         (c)  has a significant  number of customers  located in
                              any county of South  Carolina where the Bank has a
                              significant number of customers, or

                         (d)  shares a significant  number of customers with the
                              Bank.

                  (ii)     interfere or attempt to  interfere  with any business
                           relationship  of the Company or the Bank,  including,
                           without    limitation,    employee    and    customer
                           relationships,   whether  by  lawful  competition  or
                           otherwise; or

                  (iii)    engage,  directly or  indirectly,  in any business or
                           activity which requires  Executive,  or any person or
                           party  employed  by him or  whom  he  represents,  to
                           provide   Confidential   Information  or  other  data
                           obtained by Executive  as a result of his  employment
                           with the Bank to any  other  person  or party  who is
                           then engaged in providing  similar  services to those
                           of the Company or the Bank for use in competing  with
                           the Company or the Bank; or

                  (iv)     solicit  from any  customer of the Bank any  business
                           that   such   customer   has   customarily   done  or
                           contemplates doing with the Bank; or

                                       8

(v)      solicit  any  business  that  could  be  done  by the
                           Company  or the Bank  from any  customer  of the Bank
                           with whom the Executive had contact while employed by
                           the Bank; or

                  (vi)     solicit any  business on the basis of, or  advertise,
                           the Executive's  former  affiliation with the Company
                           or the Bank; or

                  (vii)    solicit,  encourage  or assist  any  other  person to
                           solicit or encourage  any  employee of the Bank,  the
                           Company  or any other  Subsidiary  of the  Company to
                           terminate such employment; or

                  (viii)   otherwise  compete  against  the  Bank,  directly  or
                           indirectly, whether as principal, agent, employee, or
                           owner of any entity (if the  percentage  or ownership
                           exceeds 10% of the entity).

The parties hereto intend the geographic  areas and all other  restrictions  set
forth  herein  to be  completely  severable  and  independent;  if  any  of  the
restrictions  set forth  above are  determined  to be either  unenforceable,  or
unenforceable in any of the geographic areas set forth above, the parties intend
that the  restrictions  set forth above shall continue to apply to the remaining
geographic areas set forth above and that the other restrictions set forth above
shall continue to apply.

                  10.2 In the  Event  of  Termination  in  Anticipation  of,  or
Following,  a Change of Control.  In the event that  Executive's  employment  is
terminated  for any reason other than for Cause either (i) following a Change of
Control (whether by the Bank or Executive), or (ii) prior to a Change of Control
and the Executive  reasonably  demonstrates that such termination (x) was at the
request  of a  third  party  who has  indicated  an  intention  or  taken  steps
reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control and who effectuates a Change
of Control or (y) otherwise  occurred in connection with, or in anticipation of,
a Change of Control which  actually  occurs,  then it is expressly  acknowledged
that there shall be no  limitation  on any  competitive  activity of  Executive,
including direct  competition with the Company or the Bank or their  successors,
and neither the Company nor the Bank shall be entitled to injunctive relief with
respect  to any  such  competitive  activities  of  Executive.  In the  event of
termination of Executive's  employment for Cause  following a Change of Control,
the noncompetition provisions of Section 10.1 shall apply to Executive.

         11. Trust. The Company shall establish an irrevocable trust to fund the
obligations  hereunder  (which  may  be a  "rabbi  trust"  if  so  requested  by
Executive),  which trust (i) shall have as trustee an  individual  acceptable to
Executive,  (ii) shall be funded  upon the earlier of a Change of Control or the
approval of any  regulatory  application  filed by a  potential  acquiror of the
Company seeking to acquire control of the Company,  and (iii) shall contain such
other  terms  and  conditions  as  are   reasonably   necessary  in  Executive's
determination  to  ensure  the  Company's  and the  Bank's  compliance  with its
obligations hereunder.

         12.  Assignment.  The parties  acknowledge that this Agreement has been
entered into due to, among other things,  the special  skills of Executive,  and
agree that this Agreement may not be assigned or  transferred  by Executive,  in
whole or in part, without the prior written consent of the Company and the Bank.

         13. Notices. All notices,  requests,  demands, and other communications
required or permitted  hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have
been duly given if delivered or seven days after mailing if mailed, first class,
certified mail postage prepaid:

9

To the Bank:               The Peoples National Bank
                           P.O. Box 1989
                           Easley, S.C. 29641
                           Attn:    Chairman of the Board

To the Company:            Peoples Bancorporation
                           P.O. Box 1989
                           Easley, S.C. 29641
                           Attn:    Chairman of the Board

To Executive:              L. Andrew Westbrook, III
                           139 Sylvan Way
                           Greenville, S.C.  29605

Any party may change the address to which notices, requests,  demands, and other
communications  shall be  delivered  or mailed by giving  notice  thereof to the
other party in the same manner provided herein.

         14.  Provisions  Severable.  If any provision or covenant,  or any part
thereof, of this Agreement should be held by any court to be invalid, illegal or
unenforceable,  either  in whole  or in part,  such  invalidity,  illegality  or
unenforceability  shall not affect the validity,  legality or  enforceability of
the remaining  provisions or covenants,  or any part thereof, of this Agreement,
all of which shall remain in full force and effect.

         15.  Remedies.  The  Executive  acknowledges  that  if he  breaches  or
threatens to breach his  covenants  and  agreements in Sections 9 and 10 of this
Agreement,  such actions may cause irreparable harm and damage to the Company or
the Bank which could not be compensated by monetary damages alone.  Accordingly,
if Executive  breaches or  threatens  to breach  Section 9 or Section 10 of this
Agreement,  the Company and the Bank shall be entitled to injunctive relief from
a court of competent  jurisdiction,  in addition to any other rights or remedies
of the Company or the Bank.

16. Arbitration.

                  16.1 Generally. Any dispute or controversy, other than a claim
for  injunctive  relief  pursuant  to  Section 15  hereof,  arising  under or in
connection  with this Agreement  shall be settled  exclusively by arbitration in
Easley, South Carolina, by three arbitrators in accordance with the rules of the
American  Arbitration  Association  then in effect.  The  arbitrators  may grant
injunctions or other relief in such dispute or controversy.  The decision of the
arbitrators  shall be  final,  conclusive  and  binding  on the  parties  to the
arbitration,  and judgment may be entered on the decision of the  arbitrators in
any court  having  jurisdiction.  Executive  shall be entitled to seek  specific
performance  of the right to be paid  until the date of  termination  during the
pendency of any dispute or controversy  arising under or in connection with this
Agreement.

                  16.2  Interim  Relief.  The  parties may apply to any court of
competent   jurisdiction  for  a  temporary   restraining   order,   preliminary
injunction,  or other interim or  conservatory  relief,  as  necessary,  without
breach of this  arbitration  agreement and without  abridgement of the powers of
the arbitrator.

                  16.3  Payment of Costs.  The Company  shall bear all costs and
expenses arising in connection with any arbitration  proceeding pursuant to this
Section.

         EXECUTIVE  HAS READ  AND  UNDERSTANDS  THIS  SECTION,  WHICH  DISCUSSES
ARBITRATION.  EXECUTIVE  UNDERSTANDS  THAT BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT,  EXECUTIVE
AGREES TO SUBMIT ANY CLAIMS,  OTHER THAN A CLAIM FOR INJUNCTIVE  RELIEF PURSUANT
TO SECTION 15 HEREOF,  ARISING OUT OF,  RELATING TO, OR IN CONNECTION  WITH THIS
AGREEMENT, OR THE INTERPRETATION, VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION, PERFORMANCE, BREACH OR
TERMINATION  THEREOF TO BINDING  ARBITRATION,  UNLESS OTHERWISE REQUIRED BY LAW,
AND THAT THIS ARBITRATION  CLAUSE CONSTITUTES A WAIVER OF EXECUTIVE'S RIGHT TO A
JURY TRIAL AND RELATES TO THE RESOLUTION OF ALL DISPUTES RELATING TO EXECUTIVE'S
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE COMPANY AND THE BANK.

                                       10

16.4 Survival.  This Section 16 relating to arbitration  shall
survive termination of this Agreement.

         17. Waiver.  Except for the one year and three month limitations in the
definition  of  "Involuntary  Termination"  and the one year  limitation  in the
definition of  "Voluntary  Termination"  in Section 2 hereof,  failure of either
party to insist, in one or more instances, on performance by the other in strict
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall not be deemed a
waiver or relinquishment of any right granted in this Agreement or of the future
performance  of any such term or  condition or of any other term or condition of
this Agreement, unless such waiver is contained in a writing signed by the party
making the waiver.

         18.  Amendments  and  Modifications.  This  Agreement may be amended or
modified only by a writing signed by the parties hereto.

         19.  Governing Law. The validity and effect of this Agreement  shall be
governed  by and  construed  in  accordance  with the laws of the State of South
Carolina.

         20.  Integration.  This Agreement  represents the entire  agreement and
understanding  among the parties as to the subject  matter herein and supersedes
all prior or contemporaneous agreements whether written or oral.

         21.  Notification  of New  Employer.  In  the  event  that  Executive's
employment   with  the  Bank  is  terminated,   Executive   hereby  consents  to
notification  by the Bank to Executive's  new employer or  prospective  employer
about Executive's rights and obligations under this Agreement.

         22. Right to Advice of Counsel.  Executive acknowledges that he has had
the right to consult with counsel and is fully aware of  Executive's  rights and
obligations under this Agreement.

         23.  General  Matters.  Submission of this  Agreement for  examination,
negotiation, or signature does not constitute an offer, and this Agreement shall
not be  effective  until it is duly  executed and  delivered,  if at all, by the
Bank,  the Company  and  Executive.  The  language  of this  Agreement  shall be
construed as a whole, according to its fair meaning and intent, and not strictly
for or against  either  party,  regardless  of who  drafted  or was  principally
responsible  for drafting  this  Agreement or any  specific  term or  conditions
hereof.  This Agreement shall be deemed to have been drafted by each party,  and
neither  party  shall urge  otherwise.  Either  party's  failure to review  this
Agreement  or any  related  documents,  or to  obtain  legal or other  advice in
connection with this transaction, constitutes a waiver of any objection or claim
that may be based upon such failure.

(The remainder of this page is intentionally  left blank.  Signatures are on the
following page.)

11

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties have executed this Agreement as of the
day and year first above written.

                              [SIGNATURES OMITTED]

12

</EX-10>

<EX-23>
 3
 peoples10k06ex23.txt
 
                                                                      Exhibit 23

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the  incorporation by reference in the Registration  Statements on
Form S-8 (No. 333-121156,  No. 333-121157 and No. 333-121158)  pertaining to the
2004 Stock Option Plan, the 1997  Non-Employee  Directors Stock Option Plan, and
the 1993  Incentive  Stock  Option Plan of Peoples  Bancorporation,  Inc. of our
report  dated  February 21, 2006,  with  respect to the  consolidated  financial
statements  of Peoples  Bancorporation,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries  included in the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.

s/Elliott Davis LLC

Greenville, South Carolina
March 31, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 peoples10k06ex31-1.txt
 
                                                                    Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATIONS

I, Robert E. Dye, Jr., certify that:

1. I have reviewed  this annual  report on Form 10-K of Peoples  Bancorporation,
Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based  on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I  are  responsible  for
establishing and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

         a) designed such  disclosure  controls and  procedures,  or caused such
disclosure  controls and  procedures to be designed  under our  supervision,  to
ensure that  material  information  relating to the  registrant,  including  its
consolidated subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

         c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure controls
and  procedures  and  presented  in  this  report  our  conclusions   about  the
effectiveness  of the disclosure  controls and procedures,  as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

         d)  disclosed  in this report any change in the  registrant's  internal
control over financial  reporting  that occurred  during the  registrant's  most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's  fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual  report)  that  has  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably  likely  to
materially affect, the registrant's  internal control over financial  reporting;
and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed,  based on our
most recent  evaluation of internal  control over  financial  reporting,  to the
registrant's  auditors  and the audit  committee  of the  registrant's  board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

         a) all significant  deficiencies and material  weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal  control over financial  reporting which are reasonably
likely  to  adversely  affect  the  registrant's  ability  to  record,  process,
summarize and report financial information; and

         b) any fraud,  whether or not  material,  that  involves  management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
over financial reporting.

Date: March 29, 2006                            /s/Robert E. Dye, Jr.
      ---------------------                     -------------------------
                                                Robert E. Dye, Jr.
                                                Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 peoples10k06ex31-2.txt
 
                                                                    Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATIONS

I, R. Riggie Ridgeway, certify that:

1. I have reviewed  this annual  report on Form 10-K of Peoples  Bancorporation,
Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based  on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I  are  responsible  for
establishing and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

         a) designed such  disclosure  controls and  procedures,  or caused such
disclosure  controls and  procedures to be designed  under our  supervision,  to
ensure that  material  information  relating to the  registrant,  including  its
consolidated subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

         c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure controls
and  procedures  and  presented  in  this  report  our  conclusions   about  the
effectiveness  of the disclosure  controls and procedures,  as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

         d)  disclosed  in this report any change in the  registrant's  internal
control over financial  reporting  that occurred  during the  registrant's  most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's  fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual  report)  that  has  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably  likely  to
materially affect, the registrant's  internal control over financial  reporting;
and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed,  based on our
most recent  evaluation of internal  control over  financial  reporting,  to the
registrant's  auditors  and the audit  committee  of the  registrant's  board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

         a) all significant  deficiencies and material  weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal  control over financial  reporting which are reasonably
likely  to  adversely  affect  the  registrant's  ability  to  record,  process,
summarize and report financial information; and

         b) any fraud,  whether or not  material,  that  involves  management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
over financial reporting.

Date: March 29, 2006                             /s/R. Riggie Ridgeway
      ---------------------                      -------------------------
                                                 R. Riggie Ridgeway
                                                 Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 6
 peoples10k06ex32.txt

Exhibit 32

                Certifications Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350

         The  undersigned,  who are the chief  executive  officer  and the chief
financial officer of Peoples  Bancorporation,  Inc., each hereby certifies that,
to the best of his  knowledge,  the  accompanying  Form 10-K of the issuer fully
complies  with the  requirements  of  Section  13(a) or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934,  and that  information  contained  in the  report  fairly
presents,  in all material  respects,  the  financial  condition  and results of
operations of the issuer.

March 29, 2006

                                         s/R. Riggie Ridgeway
                                         --------------------------
                                         R. Riggie Ridgeway
                                         Chief Executive Officer

s/Robert E. Dye, Jr.
                                         --------------------------
                                         Robert E. Dye, Jr.
                                         Chief Financial Officer

</EX-32>

