<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_1052489_0001104659-06-021257_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2446595</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>262997</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1677642</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>38</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021257.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331155023
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021257
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMERICAN BANK NOTE HOLOGRAPHICS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001052489
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-BUSINESS SERVICES, NEC [7389]
		IRS NUMBER:				133317668
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14227
		FILM NUMBER:		06728823

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		399 EXECUTIVE BOULEVARD
		CITY:			ELMSFORD
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10523
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9145922355

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		399 EXECUTIVE BOULEVARD
		CITY:			ELMSFORD
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10523

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Tvp1Ooxu4Xt5BK0ACOum83SOs0spE/q0X1wX06oBHHwNG2AfntHncDqVBXUHDIlA
 jZf5cXHioMb/rHg8GVxzXw==

 0001104659-06-021257.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-2153_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED
STATES   

   SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   WASHINGTON,
D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 
OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005   

OR   

o     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 
13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

For the transition period of
             to                

Commission File No. 1-14227   

AMERICAN
BANK NOTE HOLOGRAPHICS, INC.   

  (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)  

DELAWARE   

13-3317668   

(State or Other Jurisdiction of 
  Incorporation or Organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
  Identification Number)  

2 APPLEGATE DRIVE 
  ROBBINSVILLE, NJ   

08691   

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)  

(Zip Code)  

(609) 632-0800   

  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

   NONE   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  

   COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE PER SHARE   

  (Title of Class)  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well know seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES    o      NO       

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is
not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act. YES    o      NO       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant:
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports, and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES           NO    o  

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this Form 10-K.      

Indicate by checkmark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated filer. (See
definition of accelerated filer and large accelerated filer in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act). Large accelerated filer   o       Accelerated
filer   o      Non-accelerated filer      

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). YES    o     NO      

The aggregate market value of the common stock, $0.01 par value, held by
non-affiliates of the registrant, based upon the closing sale price of the
common stock on June 30, 2005, was approximately $53,235,421. Shares of
common stock held by each officer and director and by each person who controls
10% or more of the outstanding voting power of the registrant have been
excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination
of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other
purposes.  

The aggregate number of shares of common stock, $.01 par value,
outstanding on March 15, 2006 was 18,888,144.  

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

  NONE  

AMERICAN BANK NOTE
HOLOGRAPHICS, INC.  

2005 Form 10-K  

Table
of Contents   

Part I    

Item 1.   

Business   

3   

Item 1A.   

Risk Factors   

12   

Item 1B.   

Unresolved
  Staff Comments   

18   

Item 2.   

Properties   

18   

Item 3.   

Legal
  Proceedings   

19   

Item 4.   

Submission
  of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

19   

Part II    

Item 5.   

Market
  for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
  Purchases of Equity Securities   

20   

Item 6.   

Selected
  Financial Data   

21   

Item 7.   

Management s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

22   

Item 7A.   

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

31   

Item 8.   

Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data   

31   

Item 9.   

Changes In
  and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

32   

Item 9A.   

Control
  Procedures   

32   

Item 9B.   

Other Information   

32   

Part III    

Item 10.   

Directors
  and Executive Officers of Registrant   

33   

Item 11.   

Executive
  Compensation   

36   

Item 12.   

Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
  Matters   

43   

Item 13.   

Certain
  Relationships and Related Transactions   

46   

Item 14.   

Principal
  Accountant Fees and Services   

47   

Part IV    

Item 15.   

Exhibits and
  Financial Statement Schedules   

48   

Index to Financial
  Statements   

F-1   

Part I.   

Item 1. BUSINESS.   

American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. ( ABNH  or the  Company )  originates, produces, markets and sells
holograms and products incorporating holograms. The Company s products are used
primarily in security applications including authentication of transaction
cards, identity documents, documents of value and various consumer products. The
Company operates in one reportable industry segment. Our ability to
create distinctive, secure optically variable devices, to reproduce them with
high quality and to distribute them securely has enabled us to become a market
leader in security holography. Our products are used by over 200 companies
worldwide, including MasterCard, VISA, American Express, Discover, Diners Club,
Sears, Nordstrom, Quaker State, Sony, Nike, Eli Lilly, and Janssen-Cilag as
well as the United States government and other governments and companies. We
also produce non-secure holograms for design and promotional applications. 

We believe we have
a number of strengths that provide us with a competitive advantage in the
security sector of the holography industry, including:  

our reputation as a quality supplier
of secure holograms with over 20 years of experience in the industry, 

our expertise in  holographic technology and production
techniques which enables us to offer effective security solutions for a variety
of end use markets and application environments, 

our secure production and distribution
processes and capabilities which qualify us to meet the stringent requirements
of security conscious customers, 

our origination laboratories, which
enable us to produce distinctive holograms with a variety of security features
that make them difficult to counterfeit, and 

our integrated manufacturing
facilities, which allow us to mass produce our products in accordance with the
highest quality standards. 

The
Holography Industry   

A hologram is a
unique type of image that is created through the diffraction of light at
pre-determined angles to create various visual effects. Holograms are created
with special laser configurations and do not use ink, thereby enabling a
holographic image to be easily distinguished from a traditionally printed or
copied image. When a hologram is viewed from different angles, the viewer is
able to see features such as depth and movement, which would not typically be
possible in most two-dimensional images. Holograms can also include information
that is detectable only with the aid of special devices.  

The holography
industry is divided into two main sectors: security and non-security.  

Security    

The security
sector of the holography industry includes products that protect and
authenticate transaction cards, documents of value, consumer and industrial
products and identification cards. Using holography, and other techniques, we
can develop a unique holographic security device for each customer with which
to identify and protect the customer s products. Holograms provide the
following major benefits as security devices:  

3  

difficult to copy - holograms cannot
be copied with conventional copying equipment such as color copiers or
scanners. The unique properties and high resolution of a security hologram make
it extremely difficult to replicate even with specialized equipment and
expertise. 

overt features - the unique visual
aspects of a hologram are easily recognizable, making authentication of
products and documents practical for the general public without special
machinery, equipment or training. Overt features that we offer include: 

3-D Imagery - an
image that has three dimensions and gives the illusion of depth or varying
distances. 

TrueColor- a
holographic image that gives the illusion of color. 

Parallax -
images created on different planes that move in relation to one another when
viewed from different angles. 

Secondary Flip
Image - an image that appears and disappears when viewed at certain angles. 

Diffractive
Mercurial - a bright, sharp, color shifting two-dimensional image. 

Animation - a
two or three-dimensional image that gives the illusion of motion. 

covert features - hidden features
that can only be detected with high-powered microscopes or specialized readers
can be incorporated into a hologram to make it more difficult to counterfeit,
facilitate verification in the field and support forensic investigation. Covert
features that we offer include: 

Hidden Latent
Image - a hidden element within a holographic image that is machine-readable
only with a proprietary reader. 

HoloScan  - ABNH s
hidden machine readable code within a holographic image that can be read with
special readers. 

Micro Imagery -
text or a logo within a holographic image that is visible only under
magnification. 

Nano Imagery -
microscopic text or a logo within a holographic image that is visible only with
high-powered magnification. 

physical features - features that can be
combined with holographic materials to increase the security of the holographic
product. Physical features that we offer include: 

HoloMag TM    an integrated hologram and
magnetic stripe. 

Micro-demetallization
- - a feature whereby a designed portion of the vacuum deposited aluminum materials
are removed from the holographic film to create additional unique features that
can be used to differentiate and authenticate the materials. This can be used
to create see through screens, additional micro text in the metallization
layer, and images that are only visible under magnification. 

Tamper Apparent
- - an invisible feature used in labels which when combined with the holographic
image will act as a self destructive layer and produce a predictable release
pattern that indicates that a product has been tampered with or altered. This
release pattern can be in the form of a customized or generic design. 

4  

Taggants  
unique features which are added during the manufacturing process to the
holographic films or coatings that are verifiable by specialized equipment. 

The security
sector of the holography industry addresses concerns relating to
counterfeiting, diversion, tampering and fraud. The cost of the hologram is
generally relatively small compared to the value of the item being protected
and the risk of loss. Consequently, customers typically select suppliers
primarily based on the effectiveness of their security solutions, quality,
reliability and price.  

Our research,
product development, marketing and sales activities are primarily focused on
the security sector of the holography industry. We offer a diverse set of
security, authentication and design features. Based on customer specific needs
and applications, we can combine these techniques creating a unique set of
effects in a well-constructed and effective holographic security product.  

Non-Security    

The non-security
sector of the holography industry includes design, packaging and other
decorative applications.  

The unique visual
appeal of holograms makes them attractive for use on consumer products.
Holograms are used to enhance the design of a wide variety of products
including greeting cards, decorative clothing, point-of-purchase displays, and
for other promotional uses. Holograms are also used for packaging of food and
other products. These holograms are generally used on consumer product
packaging for their eye-catching appeal, including packaging for candy, beer,
toothpaste, soft drinks and other consumer products. Non-secure holograms are generally
not as complex, secure or proprietary as security holograms. Since there are
more companies capable of producing non-secure holograms than there are
qualified to produce and market security holograms, the competition is more
intense in the non-security sector, and the margins are typically lower than in
the security market. Customers in the non-security sector of the holographic
industry typically distinguish between suppliers primarily based upon price,
quality and production capacity.  

Markets
and Products   

We have five
target markets, and we market various products to meet the needs of these
markets:  

Transaction
Cards   . In the early 1980 s, we began marketing our secure
holograms for use on transaction cards and, as a result, helped to create and
expand the security sector of the holography market. Since that time, holograms
have been established as an important fraud prevention device on transaction
cards. They are also commonly used to enhance the brand image of a transaction
card issuer. Our products include: 

Holographic
Hot-Stamp Patch.   Our largest source of revenue since our
inception has been security holograms embossed into hot-stamp foil, for
transaction card authentication. Holographic hot-stamp patches can also enhance
the design and branding of a card. Our customers for this product include the
issuers or manufacturers of MasterCard, VISA, American Express, Diners Club,
Sears and various other retail and payment cards. We are the market leader in
this segment and have developed a secure, global distribution system for secure
holograms to the payment card industry. 

HoloMag TM   .
HoloMag is an integrated holographic magnetic stripe. HoloMag significantly
enhances the security of a card with overt, covert and machine readable
security features. HoloMag also supports the branding objectives of card
issuers with attractive imagery on the magnetic stripe while freeing up space
on the front of cards. 

5  

HoloCard TM .   HoloCard
incorporates a hologram on a card s entire face, creating a customized
marketing tool and a counterfeit deterrent. A full-faced hologram
can support brand recognition, product enhancement campaigns, customer
retention and overall product differentiation efforts. 

Identification
Documents.    We provide secure holographic laminates and
patches for identity documents such as national ID cards, passports, government
credentials, military credentials and drivers  licenses. We have patents on
demetallized holograms which are transparent and used to see printed
information under the holograms. 

We believe there
are significant security advantages for demetallized holograms used on ID cards
and other documents. We currently supply demetallized laminates for certain
secure U.S. government credentials as well as national IDs for certain foreign
countries. We believe there is a need to improve the security of many identity
documents used in the United States and other countries, and we are proposing
security holograms as a component of the security enhancements that are being
considered by major issuers of identification documents.  

Product
Authentication and Security Packaging.    The use of
holograms for product authentication and security packaging is driven by
concerns regarding counterfeiting, piracy, pilfering, diversion and other
infractions that can result in lost sales, lost goodwill and product liability
claims. Holograms are used as authentication devices in, among others,
pharmaceuticals, licensed consumer products and high value consumer and
industrial products. Product authentication holograms are either machine or
hand-applied to individual products. A holographic label that is tampered with
can become permanently damaged, leaving a visible footprint on the product. Our
products for this market segment include: 

Holographic
Labels.   Our pressure-sensitive label is available with a
broad array of authenticating features such as demetallizing, latent imagery,
machine readability and other overt and covert features. By combining multiple
security techniques, we achieve higher levels of security and make the entire
product or package easier to authenticate and difficult to simulate. 

HoloSeal TM .  
HoloSeal integrates several key security features into one innovative device. A
high security hologram, customized tamper-apparent break pattern, black light
verification system and machine-readable embedded code are all features of this
security label. In addition, HoloSeal can be manufactured to be transparent or
semi-transparent so that printed regulatory or marketing copy can be seen
through the hologram. 

HoloCap TM  .   HoloCap is ABNH s innovative
approach to sealing bottles or containers with a higher level of security.
Utilizing an induction seal process, this application provides for
authentication, tamper-resistance and branding. A holographic layer becomes part of
the seal itself. HoloCap can be combined with other security features to create
an effective approach for the security needs of a wide range of sealed
products. 

Holographic Shrink
Sleeves.   ABNH has developed a heat-shrink seal with an
integrated holographic stripe that can be applied to the lids of bottles to
deter product fraud and tampering. By including overt and covert security
features within the hologram, a customized tamper-apparent break pattern and an
embedded black light verification system, ABNH s holographic shrink sleeves
provide manufacturers of bottled goods with a tool to combat criminals that, at
the same time, can be easily integrated into a customer s existing manufacturing
operations. 

Documents
of Value.    Concerns over counterfeiting and copying have
led to an increased use of holograms produced by international suppliers for
international markets for currency, checks, gift certificates, tax stamps and
other financial instruments. While this market may provide a future growth
opportunity for the Company, we have had minimal sales in this market to date.
Holographic products for  

6  

paper documents of
value include:  

Holographic
Thread.   A holographic thread is a security device made up of
a narrow-strip hologram, approximately 2-5 millimeters wide, and is typically
incorporated into the paper substrate at the security paper mill. The hologram
is often partially embedded into the paper creating a window or
serpentine-thread. This holographic product offers both visual and covert
security features and helps raise the recognition and perceived value of the
document it is embedded into. We produce holographic material for security threads
with our proprietary process, which we believe provides significant advantages
for brighter and more durable holographic threads compared to other methods of
holographic replication. 

Holographic
Ribbons.   A holographic ribbon is an anti-counterfeiting
device that can be used on documents of value such as checks and currency. The
system is comprised of a narrow strip hologram made of hot-stamp foil and slit
into ribbons that are applied on security paper by either the paper maker or
the printer. 

Holographic
Patch.   A holographic patch is created by embossing a hologram
into hot-stamp foil, and is used for authenticating currency and other secure
documents. It is machine applied for registered placement and quality.
Depending on the design of the document, patches can be created to meet
specific size, shape, creative and security requirements. A holographic patch
is applied with heat and pressure forming a distinctly recognizable, security
component of the document. 

Commercial.   
We also produce holographic imagery for decorative and promotional purposes.
Our products for this market include pressure sensitive labels with a rich
array of designs and wide web holographic patterns for flexible packaging
applications. 

Strategy   

Protect
and Enhance Our Position in Our Core Transaction Card Business.  
We hold a leadership position in the market for holograms on transaction cards
as a result of our relationships with leading transaction card companies and
many of the major security card manufacturers. We intend to maintain our
leadership position in the card industry and grow through excellent customer
service and the distribution of new products that address the security needs
and design objectives of this market. 

Focus
Sales and Marketing.   We have narrowed the focus of our sales
and marketing efforts to those specific applications within our target markets
in which we can establish and sustain competitive advantages through a
combination of product differentiation, intellectual property and market
position. 

Broaden
and Enhance Our Security Offerings  . We are developing better
security solutions for our target markets which incorporate innovative
applications of holography and other complementary technologies. 

Control
Costs  . We have invested in and intend to continue to invest
in more efficient operations and prudently manage our expenses to strengthen
our competitive position and enhance profitability. 

Strengthen
Operational Capabilities  . We have made significant
investments in our facilities and our manufacturing capabilities and intend to
continue to invest in enhancing our production and operational capabilities to
broaden our product range, improve the products and services we provide to our
customers, become more vertically integrated in our manufacturing operations
and to gain operational efficiencies. 

Production
Processes   

We are one of the
most experienced security production companies in the holographic industry. Our
new facility in Robbinsville, New Jersey combines the operations that were
previously conducted in our  

7  

facilities in
Elmsford, New York and Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania while expanding and
broadening our production capabilities. In this facility, we operate a
holographic design studio, six holographic origination laboratories, a
recombining operation, electroforming, plate making, eighteen mass replication
lines, converting and finishing operations as well as extensive quality control
and security procedures. Additionally we have high security warehouse and
shipping and receiving areas.  

Our production
process is integrated to handle most aspects of production, including materials
sourcing, processing, finishing, packaging, storage and logistics. We generally
design and originate our own holograms in our facility in Robbinsville New
Jersey. We subcontract certain production functions or products, including
HoloMag, to third parties. The production process for holograms produced by the
Company consists of the following steps:  

Design    

The first step of
the production process is the design of the hologram. In our art department,
our experienced personnel work with the customer to develop a conceptual design
that incorporates the necessary features, both security and non-security, to
satisfy the customer s requirements.  

Origination    

After the design
has been completed, various laser-ready components (magnetic disc,
three-dimensional sculpture, flat art, etc., referred to as  information ) are
delivered to our holographic origination studios.  

The conversion
from information to hologram is based on our ability to record light in an
organized format. Coherent light, which is delivered by a laser, is best
understood as light, which has one wavelength of the visible spectrum and
possesses a high degree of organization. The coherent light is split into two
beams (the object beam and the reference beam) directed toward photo-resist
treated glass. The object beam is interfered with by the information before
continuing its travel toward the photo-resist treated glass. The reference beam
is not interfered with and travels directly toward the photo-resist treated
glass.  

The object beam
then interferes with the reference beam, creating an interference pattern,
which is recorded on the light sensitive photo-resist glass. After developing
the photo-resist glass, the film is re-illuminated approximating the original
angle(s) of the reference beam. The resulting interference pattern within the
film reflects some of the light, striking it into a re-creation of the pattern
of light that originally came from the object beam, due to a property of light
called diffraction. The reflected light, now organized and containing all
information that the object beam once carried, allows the viewer to see all of
the information in three dimensions, true color or with other desired effects.
There are less complex methods of creating a hologram origination than the
process described above. However, in our opinion, the above process produces
the clarity, depth perception, movement and mass replication properties that
are essential components of our secure holograms. We believe that our largest
competitors in the security sector may use similar processes among others.  

Plate
Making    

Once the
origination process is completed, a plate is created in order to permit mass
production. The  one-up  image is  step and repeated  to a pre-determined size
with multiple identical images recorded on a photo-resist glass. We have
designed and built a proprietary step and repeat process to create very precise
plates for mass production of tightly registered images. The glass is then
converted to a production plate in an electrolytic process where nickel is
grown on the surface of the glass. Nickel is used because its molecular nature
allows for an exact transfer of the origination to the production plate. We
believe that our plate making process is an important component of our ability
to mass-produce our  

8  

secure holograms
with high precision.  

The electrolytic
process creates different  generations  of plates prior to the production
phase. Each generation, identical to the last, creates a more wear resistant
plate for use in a mass production environment, thereby extending the useful
life of the plate. The production plate will have varying degrees of hardness,
depending upon the processes used in production.  

Mass
Production    

Manufacturing
specifications are determined in collaboration with the customer. We typically
enter into production planning with the customer where drawings and overall
specifications are written and distributed to the various production and
quality control departments.  

We employ three
methods of mass-production of holograms. Hard embossing transfers images to an
aluminum foil/polyester substrate through heat and pressure. Heat and pressure
on the holographic plate force the holographic image into the foil, which is
then converted into the final product. Soft or compliant embossing permits
embossing into pre-metallized and other films and allows for embossing on
wider-web materials.  

The other method
of mass production we employ is casting. We developed a proprietary casting
method involving ultraviolet curing, which we refer to as In-Situ Polymeric
Replication. Using this method, a polymer is transferred to a substrate
(polyester, polypropylene, etc.) which is then put in contact with the
holographic plate so that holographic imagery is replicated. The material is
then metallized using a vacuum deposition process.  

Finishing for each
of these methods may include some combination of metallization,
demetallization, application of adhesive, magnetic coating, slitting,
die-cutting, lamination and custom numbering. The completed holographic
material may then be applied to the customer s product.  

We perform the
above processes through a combination of our internal production resources and
outside subcontractors.  

Procurement of Key Materials and Products   

We purchase
certain key materials used in the manufacture of our products, and subcontract
certain production functions or products from third parties some of which are
sole suppliers. In some cases, we do not have supply contracts with our
suppliers, and operate on a purchase order basis. In the case of HoloMag, we
have a single supplier, CFC International, Inc., with whom we have a
supply contract. We may not be able to find alternative sources in a
timely manner if our suppliers or subcontractors become unwilling or unable to
supply us, or if they increase their prices. Our inability to obtain key
product components or to have certain processes performed on our behalf could
cause delays or reduce product shipments, which could cause our relationship
with customers to suffer and materially and adversely affect our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

Quality   

Through an
extensive quality assurance program, we continually make improvements to our
processes through the use of an effective and efficient business management
system.  

In 2005, we moved
and consolidated our facilities from Elmsford, New York and Huntingdon Valley,
Pennsylvania into a new facility in Robbinsville, New Jersey. (See  Manufacturing
Facilities  below and  Item 2. Properties ). We began the ISO 9001-2000
certification process for this facility during 2005.  

9  

Information
Technology   

We have implemented an integrated enterprise resource planning system
that provides information for management decision making. We made improvements
to this system in 2005 and we intend to make additional improvements in 2006.  

Research
and Product Development   

We have devoted
significant attention to research and product development to continue to
enhance our origination, replication and mass production capabilities as well
as the features and performance of our products. Our research and development
has enabled us to create new technologies and proprietary production processes
and to deliver innovative products to the marketplace. We intend to continue to
make on-going investments in research and development in order to:  

Develop better solutions for our customers  problems.  

                         Create features which differentiate our products from
those of our competitors.  

                         Develop and improve processing techniques to improve
the quality and reduce the costs of our products.  

Manufacturing Facilities   

On December 14,
2004, we entered into agreements to lease a 134,000 square foot modern
manufacturing and office building in Robbinsville, New Jersey. During 2005,
substantial construction was completed within this facility to meet our
specialized operational and security requirements and this facility has become
the site for our primary operations. The new facility provides substantial room for
expansion as we consolidated our operations that were conducted within a 58,000
square foot facility in Elmsford, New York and a 30,000 square foot facility in
Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania into the new facility. We are currently
evaluating the possible use of the Huntingdon Valley facility for certain
manufacturing and secure storage. We have also 
acquired  and installed additional
equipment and technology in the Robbinsville facility in order to broaden our
capabilities to serve our target customers, expand capacity, become more
vertically integrated and improve efficiency. See  Item 2. Properties.   

Sales and Marketing   

In 2005, we provided holographic products to over 200 customers
worldwide. The majority of these customers are manufacturers of secure
transaction cards. We are the exclusive supplier of holograms to MasterCard and
we are one of two authorized manufacturers of VISA Dove holograms for sale to
approved manufacturers of VISA cards. In 2005, we supplied holographic magnetic
stripes for VISA, MasterCard, American Express and Diners Club cards. See Item
1A.  Risk Factors    
VISA s decision to discontinue the use of the current version of HoloMag will
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition   . In addition, we supply holograms to Sears, Nordstrom,
Quaker State, Sony, Nike, Exxon Mobil, Janssen-Cilag and Eli Lilly, as well as
the United States government and other governments and companies. 

In the sales
department we currently employ a Vice President of Sales, a Vice President of
Corporate Development, and two full-time, incentive-compensated salespeople. We
also utilize incentive-based international sales agents around the world.
During 2005, as a result of the roll-out of our HoloMag product we reorganized
and expanded our Customer Service group by adding a Director of Customer
Service and four customer service personnel.  

Our sales process
generally involves identifying a customer need, designing a solution for the
customer  

10  

need, creating
samples for customer evaluation and testing. Most of our target customers are
transaction card issuers, government agencies and large corporations that are
experiencing counterfeiting or other security problems. The sales process is
generally at least three months, and in some cases, the sales process can last
several years.  

Pricing decisions
are generally made centrally by our operating executives. We focus some of our
marketing efforts on trade shows such as the Card Tech/SecureTech trade show,
Cartes and a number of other security industry conferences around the world.  

Competition   

The holographic,
magnetic tape and product security industries are highly competitive and highly
fragmented. A number of our competitors are larger, and have greater financial
resources, than us. Our industry has become increasingly competitive over the
past several years as low cost foreign producers have entered our target
markets, and low cost holographic producers that previously focused on
non-security applications are increasingly competing in security applications.
The holographic industry has also experienced consolidation, which has
increased the breadth and scale of some of our competitors. In the holographic
industry, competition is generally based on technology, price, product quality
and customer service. We also compete with other non-holographic methods or
devices.  

Trademarks and Patents   

We utilize a
combination of patents, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements, as well
as restricted access and other forms of intellectual property protection, to
safeguard certain of our proprietary technology and processes. We also hold
certain trademarks with respect to certain products and services. We currently
hold approximately 30 U.S. patents and numerous foreign patents, as well as
patents pending and service marks that are used in our business.  

We cannot assure
you that the degree of protection offered by our patents is sufficient; the
success of any of our enforcement actions or the likelihood that patents will
be issued for pending applications. Competitors in the U.S. and foreign
countries may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future
apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our
ability to make and sell some of our products.  

Employees   

As of March 15,
2006, we employed 120 persons of which 57 are covered by collective bargaining
agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. We are
party to a collective bargaining agreement with Paper, Allied-Industrial,
Chemical   Energy Workers International Union Local 286 ( Local 286 ).
Prior to our consolidation in Robbinsville, New Jersey we also had employees
covered by an agreement with PACE International Union Local 1-0318. In
connection with our     move to
Robbinsville, New Jersey, we  entered
into a closure agreement with Local 1-0318, dated March 19, 2005, that
provided for the termination of the contract with Local 1-0318. The agreement
with Local 286 has a five-year term, which will expire on January 28,
2010.  

Available Information   

Our investor relations website is accessable through www.abnh.com. We
make available on this website under the caption  Investor Relations (SEC
Filings)  free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to
those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or
submit such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

11  

Item 1A.                                                       RISK FACTORS  

Important
Factors Regarding Forward-Looking Statements   

In addition to
other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk
factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and us
because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a
significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition.
This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that have been made
pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the
forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors set forth below and
elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  

VISA s decision to discontinue
the use of the current version of HoloMag 
had a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition in the quarter ended December 31, 2005 and will continue to
impact our results of operations and financial condition in 2006.   

Sales to manufacturers of
VISA transaction cards were approximately 37%, 31% and 30% of sales for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Currently we
are one of two companies authorized to manufacture and sell the VISA Dove hot
stamp holograms to manufacturers of VISA brand transaction cards.       On
March 15, 2005, VISA announced its intention to phase out the Dove hot
stamp hologram that we supply for the front of the VISA card, and to replace it
with an integrated holographic magnetic stripe.   On April 8, 2005, we
entered into an Agreement with VISA, pursuant to which we are authorized to
supply HoloMag to VISA approved card manufacturers. Sales of HoloMag to VISA
authorized card manufacturers amounted to $2.3 million and $3.8 in the three
months ended September 30, 2005 and December 31, 2005, respectively. We
previously reported that we had learned of a small number of incidents in which
certain card terminals had been affected by electro-static discharge ( ESD )
from static electricity carried on cards incorporating HoloMag. On March 14,
2006, we were informed by VISA that, as a result of the ESD issue, VISA is
informing its member financial institutions and authorized card manufacturers
that (i) VISA will no longer approve VISA card designs which incorporate
the current version of HoloMag, (ii) VISA strongly recommends that their
members attempt to avoid further issuance of cards incorporating the current
version of HoloMag and (iii) VISA recommends that their members follow an
alternate card design incorporating a conventional magnetic stripe and Dove
hologram and VISA also provided notice to us that it was revoking our right to
produce HoloMag under its agreement (the  VISA Decision ). VISA s decision to
discontinue the use of the current version of HoloMag and the resulting cessation
of sales has had, and will continue to have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations and financial condition.  

As a result of the VISA Decision, the Company s results of operations
for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2005 have been materially
affected. In the quarter ended December 31, 2005, as a result of the VISA
Decision, we recorded a pre-tax charge amounting to approximately $5.0 million
of which $4.8 million was recorded in cost of goods sold and was principally
related to the value of our HoloMag inventory. Also included in the charge were
increases in our provisions for accounts receivable and potential non-ESD
related warranty claims. We will review the valuation of these accounts on an
ongoing basis as part of our closing process and make appropriate changes
to our reserve levels based upon the facts at the time. Sales of HoloMag to
VISA authorized transaction card manufacturers began in the quarter ended
September 30, 2005 and amounted $2.3 million in that quarter. In the
quarter ended December 31, 2005 HoloMag sales to VISA authorized card
manufacturers amounted to $3.8 million. Sales of VISA HoloMag continued to grow
in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the prior quarter until the
announcement by VISA on March 14, 2006. Accordingly, our sales in the
quarter ending March 31, 2006 are expected to be higher than the level of
the quarter ended December 31, 2005 and are expected to decline thereafter
as a result of the VISA Decision.  

We are currently working on the development
of a second generation of holographic magnetic tape, but there can be no
assurance that we will be successful in developing such a product, or that any
such product will be acceptable to our customers. Further there can be no
assurance that a competitor of ours will not develop an acceptable product that
is adopted by our customers.  

12  

We may be subject to claims
arising from the suspension of sales of HoloMag for VISA transaction cards.   

In its correspondence to us relating to
HoloMag, VISA has stated to us its view that  a remediation program for
impacted stakeholders may be necessary  and that VISA would seek
indemnification from us for such costs and/or claims. We have been evaluating
VISA s actions and claims and have submitted our initial response to VISA. VISA
has recommended to its members that cards bearing the HoloMag product already
in the market be replaced as soon as practical. Additionally, as a result of
VISA s notification to financial institutions and authorized card
manufacturers, we have received communications from customers seeking to
address the status and disposition of their HoloMag inventory and orders.  

In the event that VISA or other third parties
assert claims against us, our financial condition and results of operations may
be adversely affected.  

We depend on sales to transaction card companies for a
substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of which would have a material
adverse effect on our business.   

A significant portion of the Company s
business is derived from orders placed by certain transaction card companies
and manufacturers of transaction cards, and variations in the timing of such
orders can cause significant fluctuations in the Company s sales.  Sales
to transaction card companies and manufacturers of transaction cards accounted
for approximately 86% of our total sales in 2005 and 84% of our total sales in
2004. The traditional hot stamp patch hologram on many transaction cards is
being phased out by some of our major customers and is being replaced by an
integrated holographic magnetic stripe. We previously reported that we had
learned of a small number of incidents in which certain card terminals had been
affected by  electro-static
discharge ( ESD ) from static electricity carried on cards incorporating the
current version of HoloMag. We have been advised by customers that there is a
need to develop a second generation holographic magnetic tape product that
addresses ESD and we have commenced such development. There can be no assurance
that we will be successful in developing such a product that will be acceptable
to our customers. Further there can be no assurance that a competitor of ours
will not develop an acceptable product that is adopted by our customers. To the
extent that we experience declining sales of HoloMag or traditional hot stamp patch
holograms to our transaction card customers, without replacing such sales with
sales of new products, our business, operating results and financial condition would
be materially and adversely affected. 

We depend on sales to MasterCard for a substantial portion of our
revenue, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our
business.   

Sales to MasterCard were approximately 31% and 35% of sales for the
years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company has an
agreement with MasterCard, as amended, pursuant to which the Company is the
exclusive supplier of MasterCard holograms and holographic magnetic stripes,
HoloMag . In the quarter ended September 30, 2005, MasterCard advised its
member financial institutions around the world that it will allow them to
choose among card designs that incorporate either the traditional hot stamp
patch hologram or HoloMag, both of which are supplied by the Company. The
agreement with MasterCard was amended on August 24, 2005, and expires on February 28,
2013, subject to automatic renewal thereafter.  

If we were to lose a substantial portion of our business with
MasterCard without replacing it with new product sales, our business, operating
results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In
addition, if we fail to obtain anticipated orders from MasterCard or if we
experience delays or cancellations of orders from MasterCard, our business and
financial performance will be materially and adversely affected.  

13   

Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate
and the price of our common stock may change in response to those fluctuations.   

Our quarterly and
annual operating results have varied in the past and may vary
significantly in the future depending on factors such as:  

the
impact of the VISA Decision on our business, 

                        timing of customer orders, 

                        customer business cycles, 

                        cancellation or expiration of
customer contracts or programs, 

                        card expiration patterns, 

                        inventory replenishment, 

                        increased competition, 

                        changes in our and our competitors 
pricing policies, 

                        changes in the cost of materials or
labor, 

                        cost and availability of the services
of subcontractors, 

                        costs of recruiting or relocating
personnel, 

                        increased research and development
expenses, 

                        expenses associated with litigation, 

                        market acceptance of our products, 

                        the time required for customer
testing and evaluation, 

                        costs associated with implementing
changes in operations, 

                        investments in new technology and
equipment, 

                        changes in facility requirements, 

                        changes in our business strategy, and 

                        general economic factors. 

Because our
revenues and operating results may fluctuate, it is possible that in some
future quarter, our revenues or operating results will be below the
expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our
stock price to decrease.  

We are in a competitive, highly-fragmented industry
with many companies competing to deliver a highly-specialized product, which may lead
to declining sales or reduced prices for our products.   

The holographic,
magnetic tape and product security industries are highly competitive and highly
fragmented. A number of our competitors are larger, and have greater financial
resources, than us. Our competitors, which are numerous and may have more
resources than us, may take away market share or compete with us on the
basis of price, which may erode our prices and margins. Our industry has
become  

14  

increasingly
competitive over the past several years as low cost foreign producers have
entered our target markets, and low cost holographic producers that previously
focused on non-security applications are increasingly competing in security
applications. The holographic industry has also experienced consolidation,
which has increased the breadth and scale of some of our competitors. Increasing
competition in the market for our security holograms has resulted in declining
sales prices for certain products. Competitive pressures may force us to
reduce prices, which can adversely affect our results of operations.  

Competition is
based on a number of factors, such as:  

price, 

                        technology, 

                        product quality, and 

                        customer service. 

In addition, an
increased use of non-holographic methods or devices in place of our products
could reduce demand for our products. We cannot assure you that we will have
sufficient resources to make the technological advances necessary to maintain
any competitive advantages. We also cannot assure you that the bases of
competition in the industries in which we compete will not shift.  

We have been advised by customers that there is a need to develop a
second generation holographic magnetic tape product that addresses ESD from
static electricity carried on cards incorporating the current version of
HoloMag, and we have commenced such development. There can be no assurance that
we will be successful in developing such a product that will be acceptable to
our customers. We are aware that competitors are working to develop products
that would compete with our current and potential future offerings including a
second generation of holographic magnetic tape that does not give rise to ESD
issues.  

If we are not able to successfully protect our
intellectual property our business could be materially and adversely affected.   

Our business is
dependent to some extent upon our proprietary technology. We utilize a
combination of patents, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements, as well
as restricted access and other forms of intellectual property protection to
safeguard certain of our proprietary technology and processes. We also hold
certain trademarks with respect to certain products and services. We cannot be
certain as to the degree of protection offered by any of our patents or as to
the likelihood that patents will be issued for any of our pending applications.
Certain of our patents have expired and others have been declared invalid in
the past. Other patents will expire over the next several years. We can not
assure you that we will be able to maintain the confidentiality of our trade
secrets or that our confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful
protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition,
litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual
property rights or to determine the validity and scope of our patents or of the
proprietary rights of others. Such litigation might result in substantial costs
and diversion of resources and management attention.  

If our products infringe on the intellectual property
rights of third-parties, our business may suffer if we are sued for
infringement or cannot obtain licenses to these rights on commercially
acceptable terms.   

We are subject to
the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of the
intellectual property rights of others. In the past, third-parties have
claimed, and may in the future claim, infringement by our products. Any
such claims, with or without merit, could result in significant litigation
costs and diversion of management attention, and could require us to enter into
royalty and license agreements that may be disadvantageous to us or cause
other harm to our business. If litigation is successful against us, it  

15  

could result in
invalidation of our proprietary rights and liability for damages, which could
have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.  

We depend on third-party suppliers and subcontractors
for some key products and processes, and we may not be able to find
alternative sources in a timely manner if those suppliers or subcontractors
fail to supply us.   

We purchase certain key materials used in the manufacture of our
products, and subcontract certain production functions or products from third
parties some of which are sole suppliers. In some cases, we do not have supply
contracts with our suppliers, and operate on a purchase order basis. In the
case of HoloMag, we have a single supplier, CFC International, Inc., with
whom we have a supply contract. We may not be able to find alternative
sources in a timely manner if our suppliers or subcontractors become unwilling
or unable to supply us, or if they increase their prices. Our inability to
obtain key product components or to have certain processes performed on our
behalf could cause delays or reduce product shipments, which could cause our
relationship with customers to suffer and materially and adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

Our common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board,
which may adversely affect the price of our common stock.   

Our common stock
trades on the over-the-counter bulletin board (OTCBB), an electronic quotation
service. The OTCBB does not impose listing standards or requirements, does not
provide automatic trade executions and does not maintain relationships with
quoted issuers. Stocks traded on the OTCBB may experience:  

a loss of market makers, 

                        a lack of readily available bid and
ask prices, 

                        a greater spread between the bid and
ask prices of its stock, and 

                        a general loss of liquidity compared
to established stock exchanges or the NASDAQ National Market. 

In addition, many
investors have policies against purchasing or holding OTCBB securities. Both
trading volume and the market value of our stock have been, and will continue
to be, affected by trading on the OTCBB, which may adversely affect the
price of our stock and make it difficult for our stockholders to resell their
shares.  

If we were unable to continue to attract and retain
qualified employees, our business, operating results and financial condition
could be materially and adversely affected.   

While we have
added significantly to our talent pool in 2005 our future success continues to
depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified:  

management, 

                        engineering, 

                        manufacturing, 

                        research and development, 

                        sales and marketing, and 

                        customer support personnel. 

Competition for
these individuals is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to
retain our existing personnel or attract and retain additional personnel.  

16  

We may be subject to significant product
liability in connection with the products which we provide to our customers.   

We provide
holograms in connection with a wide range of our customers  products, in which
case it is possible that we are subjecting ourselves to product liabilities in
association with those products or in connection with the holograms used with
those products. Although we maintain product liability insurance, there can be
no assurance that such insurance would be available to cover any such claim or
available in amounts sufficient to cover all potential liabilities.  

Since a significant percentage of our sales are
derived from overseas customers, our exports and business may be subject to
some risks related to doing business internationally.   

Sales derived from
customers outside the United States were 34% of our total sales in 2005 and 21%
of our total sales in 2004. Our international sales are subject to risks,
including:  

U.S. and international regulatory
requirements and policy changes, 

                        exchange rate fluctuations, 

                        political and economic instability, 

                        difficulties in accounts receivable
collection, 

                        tariffs and other barriers, and 

                        difficulty in attracting, retaining
and managing international representatives. 

These factors may have
a material adverse effect on our future international sales, and consequently
our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Our business is subject to environmental regulation
and is always subject to environmental liability.   

Our operations are
subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. If we
fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations, we could be subject
to monetary damages and injunctive action, which could materially and adversely
affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. To the
extent future laws and regulations are adopted or interpretations of existing
laws and regulations change, new requirements may be imposed on our future
activities or may create liability retroactively.  

The issuance of shares of our common stock upon
exercise of outstanding options, together with the potential sales of such
shares in the public market, could result in substantial dilution of your
investment, a detrimental effect on our liquidity and ability to raise
additional capital, and a significant decline in the market value of our common
stock.   

As of March 15,
2006, we had 18,888,144 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding and
3,151,263 additional shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon exercise
of outstanding stock options. If the holders of shares of common stock acquired
upon the exercise of outstanding options or the lapse of the sale restrictions
on restricted stock grants were to sell a significant amount of their shares
into the open market, the market price of our common stock could be adversely
affected. The sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or
equity-related securities in the future at a price we deem appropriate.  

Crane   Co. Inc. has certain rights which
could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   

On June 30,
2000, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with Crane   Co., Inc.
( Crane ) under which Crane purchased 3,387,720 shares of our common stock. This
stock is not currently registered for  

17  

public resale, but
may be sold (i) in privately negotiated transactions, (ii) pursuant
to Rule 144 in the public market, and subject to the volume restrictions
of Rule 144, or (iii) pursuant to a registration statement filed by
the Company. Crane has the right to demand registration on Form S-3 in the
event Form S-3 is available to the Company. Since our stock trades on the
OTC Bulletin Board the Form S-3 is not currently available to the Company.
Crane also has piggy-back registration rights which require us to register its
stock in the event the Company files a registration statement to sell common
stock. On November 30, 2005 we were informed by Crane   Co., Inc.
of their intention to sell a portion or all of their shares in an orderly
manner. If the sale of these shares is not conducted in an orderly fashion it
could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. If we are
required to register Crane s common stock, the Company will incur legal,
accounting and other expenses associated with the registration and sale, and
the registration and sale of Crane s common stock may have an impact on the
market for our common stock. To date, we are not aware that Crane has sold any
shares.  

Our principal stockholders, executive officers and
directors have substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder
approval, including a change of control that you might otherwise approve.   

Our principal
stockholders, executive officers and directors and entities related to them, in
the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 48% of our common stock as of March 15,
2006. These stockholders acting together have the ability to exert substantial
influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These
matters include the election and removal of directors and any merger,
consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Such a
concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or
preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover
or other business combination.  

Effects of anti-takeover provisions could inhibit the
acquisition of ABNH.   

Our certificate of
incorporation permits our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of
preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions
of such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Although
we have no current plans to issue shares of preferred stock, the potential
issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of:  

discouraging potential acquisitions
proposals, 

                        delaying or preventing a change in
control, and 

                        limiting the price that investors
might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 

We are also
subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which
generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad
range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of
three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested
stockholder.  

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF
COMMENTS.   

Not applicable.  

Item 2. PROPERTIES.   

We maintain secure
hologram manufacturing facilities in Robbinsville, New Jersey, Huntingdon
Valley, Pennsylvania and Dalton, Massachusetts. During 2005 we moved our
headquarters and substantially all of our principal operations, including our
design, engineering, research and development, holographic  

18  

origination, plate
making, manufacturing, distribution and quality control for numerous
holographic products to our 134,000 square foot leased facility at
Robbinsville, New Jersey. The initial lease term for the new facility is
through May 2017 and at the expiration of the lease, we have options to
renew the lease for three consecutive five year periods and we also have an
option to make an offer to purchase the building.  

Our 30,000 square
foot leased facility at Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania was vacated as part of
the move and consolidation of operations in 2005. We are currently evaluating
the possible use of this facility for certain manufacturing and secure storage.
The lease on this facility expires in July 2007.  

Our 2,400 square
foot leased facility at Dalton, Massachusetts was opened in 2000 and has been
dedicated to the production of security holograms.  

Our 57,200 square
foot leased facility at Elmsford, New York was vacated and all operations
previously conducted in the facility were transferred to Robbinsville in 2005. The
lease on the facility expires in December 2007. We have the right to
sublease and have been attempting to do so since the building was vacated. We
are currently negotiating a settlement of our obligations for the remainder of
the lease term with the landlord.  

Each of our
facilities is constantly monitored for security, and has uniformed security
personnel on site, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Our Director of Security is
responsible for the physical security of each facility, access and egress,
monitoring employee integrity, and safeguarding of machinery, materials,
work-in-process and finished product until shipping. The security department
witnesses material destruction and supervises the transfer of security
shipments. Each facility is equipped with full perimeter alarms enhanced by
window glass break sensors, internal motion detectors and closed circuit video
monitoring of security sensitive areas.  

Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.   

We currently, and
from time to time, are involved in litigation (as both plaintiff and defendant)
incidental to the conduct of our business; however, we are not a party to any
lawsuit or proceeding which, in our opinion, is likely to have a material
impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Item 4.
SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.   

None.  

19  

Part II   

Item 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.   

Our common stock
has been quoted on the NASD s Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board quotation service
under the symbol  ABHH,  since March 31, 2000. Our securities are not
listed or quoted on any exchange or other quotation system.  

The following
table sets forth the high and low closing prices of our common stock for each
quarter of 2004, 2005 and the period from January 1 to March 28 of
2006.  

As of March 28,
2006, there were approximately 550 holders of record of our common stock.
Because many of our shares of common stock are held of record by brokers and
other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the
total number of beneficial stockholders represented by these record holders.  

We have not paid
cash dividends during the past two fiscal years. We have no plans or intentions
of paying dividends in the foreseeable future.  

20  

Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.    

(a)   In the quarter ended December 31, 2005,
as a result of the VISA Decision, we recorded a pre-tax charge amounting to
approximately $5.0 million relating primarily to the value of our HoloMag inventory.
Also included in the charge were increases in our provisions for accounts
receivable and warranty.    

(b)   As a result of our annual test for
impairment of goodwill, we recorded an impairment charge of $7.4 million during
the quarter ended December 31, 2002. As a result of our review of
long-lived assets for impairment during the quarter ended December 31,
2002, we recorded an impairment charge of $1.9 million (see Note 1 of the Notes
to the Financial Statements).    

(c)   Diluted earnings (loss) per share would have
been anti-dilutive for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2005, if
based on fully diluted shares adjusted to reflect stock options exercised.    

21  

Item 7.
MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS.   

The following
discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with  Item 6. Selected
Financial Data  and our financial statements, including the notes thereto,
which appear elsewhere in this report.  

Overview   

ABNH was, until July 20,
1998, a wholly-owned subsidiary of American Banknote Corporation ( ABN ). On
that date, ABN completed the sale of 13,636,000 shares of our common stock in
an initial public offering (the  Offering ), representing ABN s entire
investment in ABNH. We did not receive any proceeds from the Offering.  

ABNH originates, produces, markets and sells
secure holograms and products incorporating secure holograms. The Company s
products are used primarily in security applications including authentication
of transaction cards, identity documents, value documents and various consumer
products. The Company operates in one reportable industry segment.  Our
ability to create distinctive, secure optically variable devices, to reproduce
them with high quality and to distribute them securely has enabled us to become
a market leader in security holography. Our products are sold to over 200
companies worldwide, including MasterCard, VISA, American Express, Discover,
Diners Club, Sears, Nordstrom, Quaker State, Nike, Janssen-Cilag and Eli Lilly,
as well as agencies of the United States government and certain foreign
governments. We also produce non-secure holograms for design and promotional
applications.  

Concerns regarding
counterfeiting, piracy and other infractions that can result in lost sales,
lost goodwill and product liability claims drive the use of product
authentication holograms. Companies in various industries utilize holograms as
authentication devices.  

A significant portion of the Company s business is derived from orders
placed by certain transaction card companies, and variations in the timing of
such orders can cause significant fluctuations in the Company s sales.  Sales
to transaction card companies accounted for approximately 86% of our total
sales in 2005 and 84% of our total sales in 2004.  

Sales to MasterCard (which includes HoloMag  starting in the three
month period ended December 31, 2005) were approximately 31% and 35% of
sales for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
Company has an agreement with MasterCard, as amended, pursuant to which the
Company is the exclusive supplier of MasterCard holograms and holographic
magnetic stripes, HoloMag. In the quarter ended September 30, 2005,
MasterCard advised its member financial institutions around the world that it
will allow them to choose among card designs that incorporate either the
traditional hot stamp patch hologram or HoloMag, both of which are supplied by
the Company. The agreement with MasterCard was amended on August 24, 2005,
and expires on February 28, 2013, subject to automatic renewal thereafter.  

If we were to lose a substantial portion of our business with
MasterCard without replacing it with new product sales, our business, operating
results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In
addition, if we fail to obtain anticipated orders from MasterCard or if we
experience delays or cancellations of orders from MasterCard, our business,
operating results and financial performance will be materially and adversely
affected.  

Sales of VISA holograms (which includes HoloMag starting in
the three month period ended September 30, 2005) to manufacturers of VISA
transaction cards were approximately 37%, 31% and 30% of sales for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Currently we are one
of two companies   

22   

authorized to manufacture and sell the VISA Dove hot stamp
holograms to manufacturers of VISA brand transaction cards.     On
March 15, 2005, VISA announced its intention to phase out the Dove hot
stamp hologram that we supply for the front of the VISA card, and to replace it
with an integrated holographic magnetic stripe. On April 8, 2005, we
entered into an Agreement with VISA, pursuant to which we were authorized to
supply HoloMag to VISA-approved card manufacturers. We previously reported that
we had learned of a small number of incidents in which certain card terminals
had been affected by electro-static discharge ( ESD ) from static electricity
carried on cards incorporating HoloMag. On March 14, 2006, we were
informed by VISA that, as a result of the ESD issue, VISA is informing its
member financial institutions and authorized card manufacturers that (i) VISA
will no longer approve VISA card designs which incorporate the current version
of HoloMag, (ii) VISA strongly recommends that their members attempt to
avoid further issuance of cards incorporating the current version of HoloMag
and (iii) VISA recommends that their members follow an alternate card
design incorporating a conventional magnetic stripe and Dove hologram and VISA
provided notice to us that it was revoking our right to produce HoloMag under
its agreement (the  VISA Decision ). We are continuing to evaluate VISA s
actions and claims and have submitted an initial response to VISA. We believe
that we are in compliance with our agreement with VISA and that the HoloMag
product complies with all standards and specifications contained in our agreement.   

Our products are sold on a fixed price basis
under purchase orders and contracts with customers. Sales and the related cost
of goods sold are generally recognized at the latter of the time of shipment or
when title passes to customers. In some situations, the Company has shipped
product where the sale is contingent upon the customers  use of the product. In
these situations, the Company does not recognize sales upon product shipment,
but rather when the buyer of the product informs the Company that the product
has been used. Additionally, pursuant to the request of and agreement with a
certain customer, completed items are stored on behalf of this customer at the
Company s on-site secured facility, and in that instance, sales are recognized
when all of the following have occurred: the customer has ordered the goods
pursuant to a fixed price purchase order, the manufacturing process is
complete, the goods have been transferred to the on-site secured facility and
are ready for shipment, the risk of ownership has passed to the customer, the
customer has been billed for the order and collection of the invoice is
considered probable. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, accounts receivable
from this customer totaled $1.5 million and $1.1 million, respectively. In certain
cases the Company has agreed to maintain an inventory of products for a
customer to ensure quick turn around of deliveries. The Company only accepts
returns of product sold to customers when the product is determined to not be
in conformance with the specifications previously agreed upon with such
customers in accordance with the terms of its warranty policy and generally
replaces the product. The Company generally provides replacement product for up
to 180 days from original shipment as a warranty for defective product.
Shipping and handling amounts billed to customers are included in sales and
amounted to $0.9 million, $0.4 million and $0.4 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.  

We purchase certain key materials used in the manufacture of our
products, and subcontract certain production functions or products from third
parties some of which are sole suppliers. In some cases, we do not have supply
contracts with our suppliers, and operate on a purchase order basis.  

23  

In the case of HoloMag, we have a single supplier, CFC International, Inc.,
with whom we have a supply contract. We may not be able to find
alternative sources in a timely manner if our suppliers or subcontractors
become unwilling or unable to supply us, or if they increase their prices. Our
inability to obtain key product components or to have certain processes
performed on our behalf could cause delays or reduce product shipments, which
could cause our relationship with customers to suffer and materially and
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

During 2005, 2004 and 2003, export sales accounted for approximately
34%, 21% and 28%, respectively, of total sales. All of our export sales are presently
denominated in U.S. dollars.  

Sales may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to changes in
customers  ordering patterns. Customers do not typically provide us with
precise forecasts of future order quantities. Quarterly demand for our products
may be materially influenced by customers  promotions, inventory
replenishment, card expiration patterns, delivery schedules and other factors,
such as the VISA Decision, which may be difficult for us to anticipate.  

Cost of goods sold includes raw materials
such as nickel, foils, films and adhesives; labor costs; manufacturing
overhead; and hologram origination costs (which represent costs of a unique
master hologram that is made to customer specifications and is an integral part of
the production process). Cost of goods sold also includes the cost of certain
processes that the Company outsources to third parties. As a result, costs of
goods sold are affected by product mix, manufacturing yields, supplier prices
and changes in the cost of raw materials and labor.  

Selling and administrative expenses primarily
consist of salaries, benefits and commissions for the Company s corporate,
sales, customer service, marketing and administrative personnel, marketing and
promotion expenses, legal and accounting expenses and expenses associated with
being a public company. The Company also includes the cost of shipping and
handling product deliveries that are billed to customers in selling and
administrative expenses. These costs amounted to $1.0 million, $0.5 million and
$0.4 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

Critical
Accounting Policies   

The preparation of
our financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make use of estimates and assumptions that
impact the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during
the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including
those related to bad debts, inventories and intangible assets. These estimates
and assumptions are based on historical results and trends as well as our
forecasts as to how these might change in the future. In addition, these
estimates and assumptions have been influenced by our current knowledge of the
potential impact of the VISA Decision. Actual results may differ
materially from these estimates.  

We believe the following critical accounting policies, among others,
impact the significant judgments and estimates we use in the preparation of our
financial statements:  

Revenue
Recognition   

The Company recognizes revenue in accordance
with the provisions of the SEC s Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 104,
 Revenue Recognition (an amendment of SAB 101,  Revenue Recognition in
Financial Statements ).   Specifically,
sales and the related cost of goods sold are generally recognized at the latter
of the time of shipment or when title passes to customers. In some situations,
the Company has shipped product where the sale is contingent upon the customers 
use of the product. In these situations, the Company does not recognize sales
upon product shipment, but rather when the buyer of the product   

24  

informs the Company that the product has been
used. Additionally, pursuant to the request of and agreement with a certain
customer, completed items are stored on behalf of the customer at the Company s
on-site secured facility and, in that instance, sales are recognized when all
of the following have occurred: the customer has ordered the goods pursuant to
a fixed price purchase order, the manufacturing process is complete, the goods
have been transferred to the on-site secured facility and are ready for
shipment, the risk of ownership has passed to the customer, the customer has
been billed for the order and collection of the invoice is considered probable .
 The Company only accepts returns
of product sold to customers when the product is determined to not be in
conformance with the specifications previously agreed upon with such customers
in accordance with the terms of its warranty policy and generally replaces the
product. 

Customer advances represent payments received
from customers for products which have not yet been shipped. These customer
advances are classified as current liabilities on the Company s balance sheets.  

Shipping and handling amounts billed to
customers are included in sales. Shipping and handling costs are included in
selling and administrative expenses.  

Allowance for
Doubtful Accounts   

We maintain
allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the
inability of our customers to make the required payments. We recognize an allowance
for doubtful accounts based on the length of time the receivables are past due,
the current business environment and our historical experience. If the
financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate or if economic
conditions were to worsen, additional allowances may be required in the
future.  

Inventory
Valuation   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost being
determined on the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. At each balance sheet
date, we evaluate our ending inventory for excess quantities and obsolescence. We
provide reserves for estimated obsolescence equal to the difference between the
cost of the inventory and its estimated market value. We fully reserve for
inventories deemed obsolete. If future demand or market conditions are less
favorable than our projections, additional inventory write-downs may be
required.  

Impairment of Long-lived Assets   

We account for long-lived assets in accordance with SFAS No. 144,   Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  
( SFAS No. 144 ). SFAS No. 144 requires that long-lived assets and
certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not
be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected
to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the
impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying
amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be
disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less
costs to sell.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements   

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
Statement No. 123(R) (FAS 123R),   Share-Based Payment  ,
revising FAS 123 and requiring that all share-based payments to employees be
recognized in the financial statements. Generally, the approach to accounting
for share-based payments in FAS 123R is similar to the approach described in
FAS 123, however, pro forma footnote disclosure will no longer be an
alternative to financial statement recognition. This statement, as amended,
becomes  

25  

effective in the first annual period
beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company has adopted the new statement
effective January 1, 2006, using the modified-prospective transition
method described in the statement. Under this method, the Company will be required
to recognize compensation expense over the remaining vesting period for all
awards that remain unvested as of January 1, 2006. As permitted by FAS
123, the Company currently accounts for share-based payments to employees using
APB 25 s intrinsic value method and, as such, generally recognized no
compensation cost for employee stock options. For an approximate impact on 2006
results refer to the pro-forma results shown in Note 1., Stock-based
Compensation , in the Financial Statements.  

In November 2004, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement No. 151 ( FAS 151 ),   Inventory Costs  , an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.
FAS 151 clarifies that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight,
handling costs and wasted materials should be recognized as current period
charges. In addition, FAS 151 requires that allocation of fixed production
overhead to inventory be based on the normal capacity of the production
facilities. FAS 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company currently believes that
the adoption of FAS 151 will not have a material impact on its financial
statements.  

In March 2005, the FASB issued
interpretation No. 47,   Accounting for Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations  , an interpretation of SFAS No. 143.
This interpretation clarifies that the term of   conditional
asset retirement obligation   refers to a legal obligation to perform an
asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement are
conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the
control of the entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement
activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing
and/or method of settlement. Accordingly, an entity is required to recognize a
liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if
the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The provisions of
Interpretation 47 are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15,
2005. The adoption of this statement will not have an impact to the Company s
financial statement presentation since there have been no conditional asset
retirement obligations.  

In December 2004, the FASB issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 154,   Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  , a replacement of
APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the
requirements for the accounting for and the reporting of a change in accounting
principle. This statement requires retrospective application to prior period
financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is
impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects of the cumulative
effect of the change. Indirect effects of a change in accounting principle
should be recognized in the period of the accounting change. The provisions of
SFAS No. 154 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2005. The Company has adopted this Statement beginning January 1, 2006.  

Impact of the VISA Decision   

As a
result of the VISA Decision, the Company s results of operations for the
quarter and year ended December 31, 2005 have been materially affected. In
the quarter ended December 31, 2005, as a result of the VISA Decision, we
recorded a pre-tax charge amounting to approximately $5.0 million of which $4.8
million was recorded in cost of goods sold and was principally related to the
value of our HoloMag inventory. Also included in the charge were increases in
our provisions for accounts receivable and potential non-ESD related warranty
claims. We will review the valuation of these accounts on an ongoing basis as a
part of our closing process and make appropriate changes to our reserve
levels based upon the facts at the time. Sales of HoloMag to VISA authorized
transaction card manufacturers began in the quarter ended September 30,
2005 and amounted to $2.3 million in that quarter. In the quarter ended December 31,
2005 HoloMag sales to VISA authorized card manufacturers amounted to $3.8
million. Sales of VISA   

26   

HoloMag
continued to grow in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the prior quarter until
the announcement by VISA on March 15, 2006. Accordingly, sales in the
quarter ending March 31, 2006 are expected to be higher than the level of
the quarter ended December 31, 2005 and are expected to decline thereafter
as a result of the VISA Decision.   

Results of Operations   

Comparison
of the Year Ended December 31, 2005 to the Year Ended December 31,
2004   

Sales.   Sales increased by $11.0 million,
or 52%, from $21.3 million in 2004 to $32.3 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to the roll-out
of the HoloMag program in the transaction card market. HoloMag sales accounted
for approximately $8.4 million of the increase from 2004 to 2005 and included sales
of approximately $6.1 million to manufacturers of VISA transaction cards which
sales began in the second half of the year. HoloMag was also sold to
manufacturers of American Express and Diners Club cards throughout the entire
year and to MasterCard beginning in the fourth quarter. Sales growth was also
affected by the value of the HoloMag product which sells for substantially
higher prices than a conventional hot stamp hologram due to its unique design
and high security features. We also created new product solutions in the
identity document and product authentication markets and expanded existing
customer relationships in each of our markets. 

Royalty
Income.   Royalty income remained relatively unchanged. 

Cost of Goods Sold, excluding Depreciation and
Amortization.   Cost of
goods sold, excluding depreciation and amortization increased by $10.2 million,
from $9.2 million in 2004 to $19.4 million in 2005 primarily as a result of the
volume increase due to the ramp up of HoloMag in the second half of 2005 and
increases in inventory and warranty reserves for HoloMag. As a percentage of
sales, cost of goods sold excluding depreciation and amortization increased
from 43.1% in 2004 to 60.0% in 2005. As a result of the VISA Decision, in the
fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded a charge to cost of goods sold of $4.8
million to reserve the value of the HoloMag inventory and provide for
additional, non-ESD related warranty claims for products sold in 2005. 

Selling and Administrative Expenses.  Selling and administrative expenses
increased $1.8 million from $7.1 million in 2004 to $8.9 million in 2005. As a
percentage of sales, selling and administrative expenses decreased from 33.3%
in 2004 to 27.4% in 2005. The increase in expenses was primarily due to higher
professional fees, salaries and wages in support of the growth of the business
and the facility consolidation and shipping charges which increased due to
higher product shipments as well as an increase in the allowance for doubtful
accounts relating to the VISA Decision. The decrease in percentage of sales was
primarily due to the volume increase in sales, partially offset by higher
general and administrative costs. 

Research and Development.   Research and development expenses amounted to
$1.3 million in both 2004 and 2005 as lower testing expenses in 2005 were
partially offset by higher salaries and wages due to manpower additions and
consulting costs in connection with the HoloMag program. 

Depreciation and Amortization.   Depreciation and amortization increased $0.5
million from $0.8 million in 2004 to $1.3 million in 2005. The increase was
primarily due to the acceleration of depreciation on equipment and leasehold
improvements from the Company s abandoned facility in Elmsford, New York of
$0.4 million and the increase in fixed assets in connection with the leasehold
improvements and new equipment in the Company s new facility in Robbinsville,
New Jersey. 

Facility Consolidation Expenses.   Facility consolidation expenses of $2.8
million were recorded in 2005 as compared to $0.2 million recorded in 2004. All
amounts recorded in facilities consolidation expenses pertain to expenses
incurred for the Company s move and consolidation into its new facility in 

27  

Robbinsville, New Jersey and in 2005 consist primarily of future
amounts of rent due on the abandoned facility in Elmsford, New York, moving
costs for equipment and inventory and employee severance costs, while expenses
incurred in 2004 consist primarily of  legal fees, real estate
commissions and employee relocation and severance expenses.  

Interest Income  . Interest income increased $0.2 million from
$0.1 million in 2004 to $0.3 million in 2005 primarily as a result of higher
interest rates in effect during 2005. 

Other
Income.   Other income decreased $0.2 million from $0.2 million
in 2004 to $0 million in 2005. The decrease was primarily due to income from a
patent settlement agreement with a competitor in 2004 which did not recur in
2005. 

Income
Taxes  . The Company recorded a benefit from income taxes of $.4
million in 2005 as a result of the pre-tax loss as compared to income tax
expense of $1.3 million in 2004. 

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31,
2004 to the Year Ended December 31, 2003   

Sales.  
Sales increased by $3.0 million, or 16.3%, from $18.3 million in 2003 to $21.3
million in 2004. The increase was due to an increase in sales of holograms for
transaction cards to existing customers of $3.0 million, the creation of new
programs for transaction cards for $0.9 million in 2004, and the creation of
new programs for identification products for $0.4 million in 2004, which was
partially offset by sales of $1.3 million of identification products in 2003
that did not recur in 2004. In addition, we commenced new programs in
pharmaceutical product protection which offset a continued reduction in lower
margin label sales. 

Royalty
Income.   Royalty income remained relatively unchanged. 

Cost of
Goods Sold, excluding depreciation and amortization.   Cost of
goods sold, excluding depreciation and amortization increased by $0.9 million,
or 10.7%, from $8.3 million in 2003 to $9.2 million in 2004. As a percentage of
sales, cost of goods sold, excluding depreciation and amortization decreased
from 45.3% in 2003 to 43.1% in 2004. The decrease in cost of goods sold,
excluding depreciation and amortization as a percentage of sales of 2% was
primarily due to greater sales volumes of higher margin products in the current
period. 

Selling
and Administrative Expenses.   Selling and administrative
expenses increased by $0.6 million, from $6.5 million in 2003 to $7.1 million
in 2004. As a percentage of sales, selling and administrative expenses
decreased from 35.6% in 2003 to 33.3% in 2004. The increase in selling and
administrative expenses is primarily due to an increase in sales salaries of
$0.1 million, an increase in other selling expenses of $0.1 million primarily
due to higher trade show, travel and sample expenses, an increase in
administrative salaries and benefits of $0.3 million and an increase in other
administrative expenses of $0.1 million primarily related to higher
professional fees and recruitment expenses. 

Research
and Development  . Research and development expenses increased
$0.1 million from $1.2 million in 2003 to $1.3 million in 2004. The increase
was primarily due to the development and testing of new products. 

Depreciation
and Amortization.   Depreciation and amortization expense
increased $0.1 million from $0.7 million in 2003 to $0.8 million in 2004
primarily due to new assets in 2004. 

Facility
Consolidation Expenses.   Facility consolidation expenses of
$0.2 million pertain to expenses 

28  

incurred for our
new facility in Robbinsville, New Jersey and consist primarily of legal fees,
real estate commissions and employee relocation and severance expenses.  

Other
Income.   Other income increased $0.2 million from $0.1 million
in 2003 to $0.3 million in 2004. The increase was primarily due to income from
a patent settlement agreement with a competitor in 2004. 

Income
Taxes  . Income tax expense increased $0.5 million from $0.7
million in 2003 to $1.2 million in 2004. The increase was primarily due to an
increase in taxable income in 2004. 

Seasonality   

Our sales have not
generally exhibited substantial seasonality. However, our sales and operating
results to date have, and future sales and therefore operating results may,
continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. The degree of fluctuation will
depend on a number of factors, including the timing and level of sales, and any
change in the pricing of our products and the mix of products sold. Because a
significant portion of our business is expected to be derived from orders
placed by a limited number of large customers, variations in the timing of such
orders could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. Customers
do not typically provide us with precise forecasts of future order quantities.
Quarterly demand for our products may be materially influenced by
customers  promotions, inventory replenishment, transaction card expiration
patterns, delivery schedules and other factors which may be difficult for
us to anticipate. Other factors that may result in fluctuations in
operating results include the impact of the VISA Decision, the timing of new
product announcements and the introduction of new products and new technologies
by us or our competitors, delays in research and development of new products,
increased research and development expenses, availability and cost of materials
from our suppliers, and competitive pricing pressures.  

Liquidity and Capital
Resources   

At December 31,
2005, we had $9.1 million of cash and cash equivalents and working capital of
$13.6 million.  

The Company s operating activities provided
cash of $0.3 million in 2005, compared to $3.4 million of cash provided in
2004. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable and
inventories in connection with the increase in sales partially offset by an
increase in accounts payable due to the growth of the business. Investing
activities in 2005 used cash of $3.1 million including $5.1 million as a result
of capital expenditures, primarily associated with leasehold improvements and
new equipment in the new facility partially offset by sales of short-term
investments of $2.0 million. Financing activities in 2005 provided cash of $0.6
million due to the exercise of stock options. Financing activities in 2004
provided cash of $0.1 million due to the exercise of options.  

On December 14, 2004, the Company entered into agreements to lease
a 134,000 square foot modern manufacturing and office building in Robbinsville,
New Jersey, which is the site of its primary operations following the closure,
relocation and consolidation of its operations in Elmsford, New York and
Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania into the Robbinsville site. The Company
completed the relocation and consolidation of its operations during 2005. The
Robbinsville facility provides substantial room for expansion as the
Company consolidated its operations that were being conducted within a 58,000
square foot facility in Elmsford, New York and a 30,000 square foot facility in
Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania into the new facility. We are currently
evaluating the possible use of the Huntingdon Valley facility for certain
manufacturing and secure storage. The Company has also acquired and installed
additional   

29  

equipment and technology in the new facility to broaden its
capabilities to serve its target customers, expand capacity, become more
vertically integrated and improve efficiency.  

The base rent on the lease for the
Robbinsville, New Jersey facility is $555,000 per year, increasing by 1.9% per
year, and the first seven months of the lease were rent-free. We recorded
deferred rent of $0.4 million in 2004 and 2005. The term of the lease for the
Robbinsville facility extends through May 31, 2017, and at the expiration
of the term, we have options to renew the lease for three consecutive five year
periods at the then fair market value and also have an option to purchase the
building after the end of the original lease term for the adjusted fair market
value as defined in the lease agreement. The base rent on the lease in
Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania is $144,000 per year. The lease on this
facility expires on June 30, 2007. The base rent on the lease in Elmsford,
New York is $746,000 per year. The lease on this facility expires on December 31,
2007. As this facility was abandoned as part of our move and consolidation
in 2005 the remaining rent, net of estimated sublease income, through the end
of the lease term has been charged to Facility Consolidation Expense in 2005.  

We invested approximately $6.0 million
through 2005 in capital additions at the Robbinsville, New Jersey facility in
conjunction with the consolidation of our operations, of which approximately
$5.1 million was expended in 2005 and $.9 million was expended in 2004. These
expenditures were for facility upgrades to customize the Robbinsville, New
Jersey facility for the Company s operational and security requirements as well
as the acquisition of new equipment to upgrade and expand our production
capabilities.  

We believe that cash flows from operations and cash balances will be
sufficient to meet working capital needs and fund capital expenditures for the
foreseeable future after considering the potential impact of the VISA Decision.  

The following table illustrates the costs incurred in the relocation
and consolidation of facilities through December 31, 2005 and anticipated
in 2006 and 2007.  

The following table quantifies our future obligations, which consist
primarily of lease obligations (in thousands):  

Impact of
Inflation   

In recent years,
inflation has not had a significant impact on our historical operations. There
can be no assurance that inflation will not adversely affect our operations in
the future, particularly in emerging markets where inflationary conditions tend
to be more prevalent.  

30  

Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangements   

The Company has no
off-balance sheet arrangements.  

Unaudited
Quarterly Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2005 and
2004.   

(1)                                     The
quarter ended December 31, 2005 includes $5.0 million of additional charges
for the VISA Decision. Net Income (loss) in the quarter was also impacted by
facility consolidation expense of $2.2 million. 

(2)                                     Diluted
income (loss) per share would have been anti-dilutive for the quarter ended December 31,
2005 if based on fully diluted shares adjusted to reflect stock option
exercises. 

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.   

We do not engage
in significant activity with respect to market risk sensitive instruments.
Accordingly, our risk with respect to market risk sensitive instruments is
immaterial.  

Item 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.   

The Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data required by this item are filed as part of
this Form 10-K. See Index to Financial Statements on page F-1 of this
Form 10-K.  

31  

Item 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE.   

On April 27, 2005, Ernst   Young LLP ( Ernst  
Young ) notified us that it would be resigning as our independent auditors upon
completion of their SAS No. 100 review for the quarter ended March 31,
2005. Ernst   Young subsequently completed its SAS No. 100 review
and by letter dated May 17, 2005 confirmed its resignation. Ernst  
Young advised the Company that it was resigning because of Ernst  
Young s resource constraints, and that its resignation was not related to any matter
concerning the Company including the Company s selection or application of
accounting policies or judgments, the scope of audit, internal controls or
integrity of management.  

Ernst   Young audited our financial
statements for our two most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2004.  

During our two most recent fiscal years ended December 31,
2004 and for the period from January 1, 2005 through the date of
resignation, there were no disagreements with Ernst   Young on any
matters of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure,
or auditing scope or procedure, which disagreements, if not resolved to the
satisfaction of Ernst   Young would have caused them to make reference
to the subject matter of their disagreement in their report.  

During our two most recent fiscal years ended December 31,
2004 and for the period from January 1, 2005 through the date of
resignation, there were no reportable events as such term is defined by
paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of Item 304 of Regulation S-K promulgated
by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

The report of Ernst   Young accompanying
the audit for our two most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2004 did
not contain any adverse opinion or disclaimer or opinion, nor was it qualified
or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles.  

The Company provided Ernst   Young with a
copy of the above disclosures on May 18, 2005, and requested that Ernst  
Young furnish a letter addressed to the Securities and Exchange Commission
stating whether it agrees with the statements made by the Company and, if not,
stating the respects in which it does not agree. A copy of such letter is
attached as exhibit 16.1 to the Form 8-K filed by the Company on May 20,
2005.  

On, August 1, 2005 we engaged
PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP as our independent registered public accounting
firm for 2005. During our fiscal years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
and through August 1, 2005, neither we, nor anyone acting on our behalf,
consulted with PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP with respect to the application of
accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed,
or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on our financial
statements, or any other matters or events set forth in Item 304(a)(2)(i) and
(ii) of Regulation S-K.  

Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   

We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the
participation of management, including our chief executive officer and chief
financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our
disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this
report pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based on this evaluation, our
chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective in timely alerting them to
material information relating to ABNH required to be included in our periodic
Securities and Exchange Commission filings. There were no changes in our
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our most recent
fiscal quarter that would have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  

Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION   

None.  

32  

Part III   

Item 10.
DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT.   

The following table sets forth certain information concerning our
directors, executive officers and other key employees. All directors hold
office until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until their successors
have been elected and qualified.  

Name   

Age   

Position(s)   

Directors,
  Executive Officers:   

Kenneth H. Traub  

44  

President, Chief
  Executive Officer and Director  

Salvatore F. D Amato  

77  

Chairman of the
  Board  

Mark J. Bonney  

52  

Executive Vice
  President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary  

Jordan Davis *  

44  

Director  

Fred J. Levin*  

43  

Director  

*    Member of the audit and compensation
committees.  

Kenneth
H. Traub   has served as our President and Chief Executive
Officer since March 2000 and as a director since April 1999. From February 1999
through March 2000, Mr. Traub served as our President and Chief
Operating Officer, and from January 1999 through February 1999 he
served as our consultant. Previously, Mr. Traub co-founded Voxware, Inc.,
a developer of digital speech processing technologies, and served on its board
of directors from February 1995 to January 1998 and as its Executive
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary from February 1995
to April 1998. Prior thereto, Mr. Traub was Vice President of
Trans-Resources, Inc., a diversified multinational holding company. Mr. Traub
holds an M.B.A. from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration and
a B.A. from Emory University. 

Salvatore
F. D Amato   has served as our Chairman of the Board since April 1999
and as a director since March 1999. He was also our Chairman of the Board
and President from 1983 to 1990 and was a consultant for us from time to time
between 1990 and April 1999. Mr. D Amato was President and a director
of American Banknote, our former parent corporation, from 1977 to 1983. Prior
thereto, he served as Vice President, Engineering and Senior Vice President,
Operations with ABN. Mr. D Amato holds a masters degree in Engineering
from Columbia University. 

Mark J.
Bonney   has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer and Secretary since June 2005. Prior to joining the
Company in these capacities Mr. Bonney served as a director of the Company
from February 2003. Previously, Mr. Bonney had been the Managing
Partner of Endeavour Advisors, LLC, a strategic management-consulting firm from
April 2004. Previously, Mr. Bonney was the Chief Executive Officer of
MJB Consulting, a strategic management-consulting firm, since March 2002. Prior
thereto, Mr. Bonney was the President and Chief Operating Officer of Axsys
Technologies, a leading supplier of optical components and subsystems from August 1999
through March 2002. Prior thereto, Mr. Bonney held various positions,
including Vice President of Operations, Vice President of Finance and Chief
Financial Officer of Zygo Corporation, a manufacturer of measurement systems
and optical products, from March 1993 through July 1999. Mr. Bonney
holds a B.S. in Business Administration and Economics from Central Connecticut
State University and an M.B.A. in Finance from the University of Hartford. 

33  

Jordan S. Davis    has served as a director since May 2005.
Mr. Davis has been a Managing Partner of Radius Ventures, a venture
capital firm since 1996. Mr. Davis also serves on the boards of directors
of Health Language, Inc., Impliant, Inc. and Zettacore, Inc.,
each portfolio companies of Radius Ventures. Mr. Davis earned an M.B.A.
from the J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University
in 1986 and a B.A. in Economics from The State University of New York at
Binghamton in 1983.  

Fred J.
Levin   has served as a director since February 2000. Mr. Levin
has been the President and Chief Executive Officer of the LGI Network LLC, a
market research and information service company, since February 2002. Previously,
Mr. Levin was the President of the Concord Watch Division of Movado Group, Inc.,
a manufacturer and marketer of watches, from March 1998 to January 2002.
Mr. Levin also served with Movado Group, Inc. as Senior Vice
President, International from April 1995 to February 1998 and as Vice
President, Distribution from February 1994 to March 1995. Prior
thereto, Mr. Levin was a management consultant with McKinsey  
Company. Mr. Levin holds a B.S. in Industrial Engineering from
Northwestern University and an M.B.A. from the Harvard Graduate School of
Business Administration. 

Other Key Management Personnel   

Michael T. Banahan      is our Vice
President of Sales. Mr. Banahan has been a senior sales executive with the
company since 1989 and has been Vice President of Sales since 1999. Mr. Banahan
is currently a member of the International Association of Financial Crimes
Investigators (IAFCI) and serves as the chairman of the ethics committee of the
Document Security Alliance (DSA). Mr. Banahan was previously a sales
executive at Burlington Industries, Tension Envelope and West Point Pepperel. Mr. Banahan
holds a B.A. in Marketing from the University of Rhode Island.  

George Condos      is our
Controller and has been in this role since joining ABNH in April 1999.
Prior to ABNH, Mr. Condos was Controller of PSR Logistics. He also served
as District Controller and Office Manager at Browning-Ferris Industries and was
Controller of United Carting Company. Mr. Condos holds a B.S. in
Accounting from Fairleigh Dickinson University.  

Alan Goldstein      is our Vice
President of Finance. Mr. Goldstein joined the company in April 1999
and served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer until June 2005. Mr. Goldstein
was previously Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Complete
Management Inc. He also served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
RF International, Inc., a multi-national transportation services holding
company. Mr. Goldstein holds an M.S. in Accounting from Long Island
University and a B.S. in Business Administration from Boston University. Mr. Goldstein
will be leaving ABNH effective March 31, 2006.  

Dr. John Hynes      is our Vice
President and Chief Technology Officer. Prior to joining ABNH in 2005, Dr. Hynes
was President of Card Based Information Technologies, Inc., a leading
consulting firm to the card industry since 1990. Dr. Hynes holds a
doctorate in magnetic physics from Florida State University and has worked in
the transaction card and related industries for over 25 years. Dr. Hynes
holds several patents on magnetic stripes, card security and other fields. Dr. Hynes
has served on numerous standards committees including American National
Standards Institute, International Standards Organization and Automatic
Identification Manufacturers. Dr. Hynes has also chaired Card Technology
Seminars, Card Tech/Secure Tech and International Card Manufacturers
Association annual conferences covering magnetic stripe performance, card
production and emerging technologies.  

Ron G. McClenny      is our Vice
President of Operations. Mr. McClenny is responsible for managing the
Company s manufacturing, engineering and quality assurance operations.
Previously, Mr. McClenny was Vice President, and General Manager of JVC
Magnetics America, where he was responsible for  

34  

managing a $100 million video tape manufacturing
facility with 250 staff members. Mr. McClenny holds a B.S. in Electrical
Engineering from Auburn University and is a Six Sigma Black Belt.  

William C. Morwald      is our Vice
President of Quality   Product Management. Mr. Morwald joined
ABNH in 1984 and has served in his current role since January 2003. Mr. Morwald
has served in numerous capacities with ABNH including manufacturing, quality
and product management and was responsible for establishing our operation in
Dalton, Massachusetts.  

Adam L.A. Scheer      is our Vice
President of Corporate Development and Marketing. Mr. Scheer joined ABNH
in 2001 and his responsibilities at ABNH include oversight of marketing,
business development, international sales and strategic planning. Prior to
joining ABNH, Mr. Scheer served as a senior officer with companies in the
technology and chemicals industries and as an investment banking analyst. Mr. Scheer
holds a B.A. in history, cum laude, from Williams College and an M.B.A. in
Management, earned with distinction, from New York University s Stern School of
Business where he was named a Stern Scholar.  

Audit Committee   

Our Board of Directors has established an Audit
Committee in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). The members of the Audit
Committee are currently Jordan S. Davis (Chairman) and Fred J. Levin. The Audit
Committee recommends to the Board of Directors the appointment of our
independent auditors. The Audit Committee also discusses and reviews, with our
independent auditors, the scope and results of the annual audit. All of the
members of our Audit Committee are independent within the meaning of Section 7(d)(3)(iv) of
Schedule 14A applying the definition of independence set forth in Rule 4200(a)(15)
of the National Association of Securities Dealers  listing standards. Our Board
of Directors has determined that there is no audit committee financial expert
as defined by Item 401(h) of Regulation S-K of the Exchange Act. Mark
J. Bonney served as our audit committee financial expert until June 9,
2005 at which time he resigned from our Board of Directors and became our Chief
Financial Officer. Our Board of Directors believes that the current members of
our Audit Committee are qualified to serve based on their collective experience
and background. Our Board of Directors originally adopted a written charter for
our Audit Committee on August 4, 2000, and adopted an amended and restated
written charter on April 28, 2003. The Audit Committee s amended and
restated charter provides that the Audit Committee shall be comprised of no
more than five and no less than three members. Our Audit Committee is currently
comprised of only two members. We are currently searching for a qualified
candidate and financial expert to serve on our Audit Committee as its third
member.  

Compensation Committee   

Our Board of
Directors has established a Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee
advises our Board of Directors on compensation matters, determines the
compensation of the Chief Executive Officer, reviews and takes action on the
recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer as to the appropriate
compensation of other officers and key personnel and approves the grants of
bonuses to officers and key personnel. The Compensation Committee is also
responsible for the administration of our 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, 2000 Stock
Incentive Plan and 2005 Stock Incentive Plan. The Compensation Committee is
currently composed of Messrs. Levin (Chairman) and Davis.  

Compliance with Section 16(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934   

Section 16(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, requires our directors and
executive officers, and persons who beneficially own more than 10% of our common
stock, to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission reports of their
ownership and changes in their ownership of common stock. Based upon a review
of the copies of the filings with the Securities and Exchange  

35  

Commission and
written representations from our executive officers, directors and persons who
beneficially own more than 10% of our common stock, we believe that the Section 16(a) filing
requirements applicable to our executive officers, directors and persons who
beneficially own more than 10% of our common stock in fiscal 2005 were complied
with on a timely basis.  

Code of Ethics   

We have adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers
applicable to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, treasurer,
controller, principal accounting officer and other employees performing similar
functions. The Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers is available on our
website. We will satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 10 of Form 8-K
relating to amendments or waivers from any provision of the Code of Ethics for
Senior Financial Officers by either filing a Form 8-K or posting this
information on our website within four business days following the date of
amendment or waiver. Our website address is www.abnh.com.  

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.   

The following
table provides information concerning compensation paid to or earned during
2003, 2004 and 2005 by our (i) chief executive officer during 2005, (ii) two
executive officers who were serving as executive officers of the Company at December 31,
2005 and (iii) our former Chief Financial Officer (collectively, the  Named
Executive Officers ).  

Summary
Compensation Table   

(1)             Other Annual
Compensation in 2003, 2004 and 2005 for Messrs. Traub, D Amato and
Goldstein consisted of the use of automobiles paid for by us. Mr. Bonney
receives a car allowance of $700.00 per month. 

(2)             All other compensation
in 2003, 2004 and 2005 includes term life insurance premiums and employer
contributions to our 401(k) retirement plan paid by us for Mr. Traub of
$4,830, $4,534 and $3,973, 

36  

respectively
and $2,100, $2,050 and $2,000, respectively; for Mr. D Amato of $119, $176
and $348, respectively and $2,100, $2,050 and $2,000, respectively, and for Mr. Goldstein
of $1,488, $1,488 and $1,248, respectively and $2,100, $2,050 and $2,000,
respectively.  

(3)             Mr. Bonney joined
the Company on June 9, 2005 at an annual salary of $215,000. 

(4)             All Other Compensation
includes director s fees of $16,462 paid to Mr. Bonney prior to his
resignation from the Board in May 2005, $744 paid for term life insurance
premiums and $90,881 paid to Mr. Bonney in December 2005 in
connection with a cash buyout of the value of certain stock options granted to
him while a director of the Company and for
which he would have been subject to adverse tax consequences under Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The cash payment represented
the difference between the aggregate fair market value on December 15,
2005 of the shares of the Company s common stock subject to the cancelled
options, being $6.45 per share, and the aggregate exercise price of the
cancelled options and was subject to applicable withholdings. 

(5)             Represents
a restricted stock grant of 5,000 shares on November 15, 2005 at a value
of $6.40. The restricted stock vests in full on November 15, 2008. At December 31,
2005, Mr. Bonney held 5,000 shares of restricted stock at an aggregate
dollar value of $31,000 based on the Company s closing stock price on that date
of $6.20. The restricted stock is eligible to receive dividends when and if
declared. 

(6)             Effective June 9, 2005, Mr. Goldstein became the Vice President of
Finance and resigned from his executive officer position as Chief Financial
Officer and Secretary. 

Option Grants for 2005   

During 2005 the Named Executive Officers
received certain stock awards under the Company s 1998 Stock Incentive Plan,
2000 Stock Incentive Plan and 2005 Stock Incentive Plan. The following table
sets forth information with respect to option grants in 2005 to each of the
Named Executive Officers.  

Executive Option Grants in Last
Fiscal Year   

(1)             Options vest over three years with 33.3%
vesting on the first anniversary of the grant date and the remaining 66.7%
vesting at the rate of 8.34% on the last day of each of the following eight
quarters. Exceptions include: 

  (a)  Vest in full on January 7,
2006  

  (b) Fully vested at
date of grant.  

  (2)             Based on options to purchase 411,166 shares
granted in 2005 under the 1998, 2000 and 2005 Stock Incentive Plans. 

37  

(3)             These amounts represent assumed rates of
appreciation in the price of the Company s common stock during the terms of the
options in accordance with rates specified in applicable federal securities
regulations. Actual gains, if any, on stock option exercises will depend on the
future price of the common stock and overall stock market conditions. The 5%
rate of appreciation over the term of the $2.95, $3.80, $5.65 and the $6.45
stock prices on the dates of the respective grants would result in a stock
price of $4.81, $6.19, $9.20 and $10.51, respectively. The 10% rate of
appreciation over the term of the $2.95, $3.80, $5.65 and the $6.45 stock price
on the date of the respective grants would result in a stock price of $7.65,
$9.86, $14.65 and $16.73, respectively. There is no representation that the
rates of appreciation reflected in this table will be achieved. 

2005
Year-End Option Values   

The following table
provides information concerning the number and value of unexercised options
held by each of the Named Executive Officers on December 31, 2005. No
options were exercised in 2005 by the Named Executive Officers.  

(1)             Based on the difference
between $6.20, which was the closing price per share on December 31, 2005,
and the exercise price per share of the options. 

Director Compensation   

Each member of the
board of directors who is not an employee of ABNH will receive compensation of
$12,000 per year for serving on the board of directors. Each of these directors
will also receive $1,000 for each board meeting attended in person, $500 for
each telephonic board meeting attended and $500 for each committee meeting
attended. We also will reimburse directors for any expenses incurred in
attending meetings of the board of directors and the committees thereof. Upon
their initial election to the board of directors, each non-employee board
member is granted options to purchase 25,000 shares of our common stock. Such
options are exercisable at the fair market value of the common stock at the
date of grant. These options become vested and exercisable for up to 20% of the
total option shares upon the first anniversary of the grant of the options and
for an additional 20% of the total option shares upon each succeeding
anniversary until the option is fully exercisable at the end of the fifth year.
In addition, directors may, from time to time, receive additional grants of
options to purchase shares of our common stock as determined by our board of
directors.  

On January 7, 2005 the board of directors adopted a policy to
increase the compensation paid to directors who are not employees of ABNH. Under
the new policy, in addition to the compensation described above, each director
who is not an employee of ABNH will automatically receive an option to purchase
5,000 shares of our common stock at the first meeting of the board of directors
of each calendar year. Such options are exercisable at the fair market value on
the date of the grant and will become vested and  

38  

exercisable over a period of three years. In addition, the chairman of
each committee of the Board of Directors will receive an additional annual fee
of $6,000.  

Employment Agreements   

We entered into an
amended employment agreement with Kenneth H. Traub in March 2005 for an
initial term of one year, which renews automatically for successive one year
terms, unless we give at least 60 days written notice prior to the end of the
current term. The agreement provides for an annual base salary of $400,000 in
2005, to be increased by not less than 3% per year upon renewal and further
provides that, if we do not renew his employment agreement, Mr. Traub will
receive severance equal to two times his annual salary and bonus. Additionally,
Mr. Traub is eligible to receive annual bonuses based on the Compensation
Committee s assessment of Mr. Traub s performance for the prior year based
on agreed-upon performance objectives. The target annual bonus is $100,000
although any actual bonus may be more or less than such amount. In the
event of Mr. Traub s termination by us for any reason other than for
cause, as defined in the agreement, or his resignation for good reason, as
defined in the agreement, we are generally required to (1) pay him his
salary then in effect with any bonus which may have been accrued or which
otherwise would have been granted by the board to him for a period of two years
following such termination, (2) continue to provide employee benefits to Mr. Traub,
and (3) accelerate vesting on any unvested options granted to him. Upon
the termination of Mr. Traub s employment by us following a change of
control, as defined in the agreement, or Mr. Traub s resignation for good
reason following a change in control, we are required to (1) pay him a
severance amount equal to two times his annual salary and bonus then in effect
(or, if such termination or resignation for good reason is more than one year
after such change of control, an amount equal to three times his salary and
annual bonus then in effect), (2) accelerate vesting on any unvested
options and any shares of restricted stock granted to Mr. Traub, and (3) to
the extent such amounts are subject to excise taxes under Section 4999 of
the Internal Revenue Code, provide a tax gross up to him for any additional
amounts due. In connection with his employment agreement, Mr. Traub has
agreed not to compete with, or solicit from, us during his term of employment
and for one year thereafter and has agreed not to disclose or use our
confidential information.  

We entered into an
employment agreement with Salvatore F. D Amato in April 1999 for an
initial term of two years, which renews upon mutual agreement for successive
one year terms. As amended, the agreement provides for a base salary of
$180,000 per year. Pursuant to the Agreement Mr. D Amato is eligible to
receive bonuses at the discretion of our board of directors, with a target
bonus of $10,000 per quarter. The quarterly bonus is required to be paid unless
the board determines otherwise based on certain factors. In the event of Mr. D Amato s
termination for any reason other than for cause, as defined in the agreement,
or in the event of his resignation for good reason, as defined in the
agreement, we are required to continue to pay his salary then in effect,
together with any bonus that may have accrued, for the remainder of his
employment term. Upon termination of Mr. D Amato s employment following a
change of control, or Mr. D Amato s resignation for good reason within one
year of a change of control, we are required to pay him an amount equal to his
annual salary and bonus. In connection with his employment agreement, Mr. D Amato
agreed not to compete with us during his term of employment and for one year
thereafter.  

We entered into an employment
agreement with Mark Bonney in June 2005 for an initial term of one year,
which renews automatically for successive one-year terms, unless we give at
least 60 days written notice prior to the end of the current term. The
agreement provides for an annual base salary of $215,000 and further provides
that, if we do not renew his employment agreement, Mr. Bonney will receive
severance equal to six months of his current salary payable over the six-month
period in accordance with customary payroll practices and we shall continue his
employee benefits for such six-month period. Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Bonney
is eligible to receive bonuses at the discretion of our Board of Directors or
compensation committee in consultation with our Chief Executive Officer. In
connection with the agreement, we granted to Mr. Bonney options to
purchase up to 112,500 shares of our common  

39  

stock at an exercise price
of $3.80 per share and extended the terms of options to purchase 30,000 shares
of our common stock previously granted to Mr. Bonney in connection with
his service as member of our board of directors. The agreement also provides
that we will reimburse Mr. Bonney up to $100,000 in connection with the
relocation of his residence in connection with his employment by us. In the
event of Mr. Bonney s termination by us for any reason other than for
cause, as defined in the agreement, or his resignation for good reason, as
defined in the agreement and upon his execution and delivery to us of a general
release, we are required to (1) pay him his salary then in effect for a
period of six months following such termination or resignation for good reason,
(2) continue to provide employee benefits to Mr. Bonney and (3) permit
the exercise of options granted under any of our stock option plans or other
equity incentive plans which were vested on the termination date for a period
of nine months thereafter. Upon termination of Mr. Bonney s employment
following a change of control, or Mr. Bonney s resignation for good
reason, as defined in the agreement, following a change of control, we are
required to (1) pay him a severance amount equal to one and one-half times
his annual salary and bonus then in effect (2) accelerate vesting on any unvested
options or common stock granted under any of our stock option plans or other
equity incentive plans, and (3) to the extent such amounts are subject to
excise taxes under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, provide a
tax gross up to him for any additional amounts due. In connection with his
employment agreement, Mr. Bonney agreed not to compete with us during his
term of employment and for one year thereafter.  

We entered into an amended
employment agreement with Alan Goldstein in June 2005 for a term ending on
March 31, 2006 (unless terminated earlier in accordance with the
agreement). Pursuant to the amended agreement Mr. Goldstein became our
Vice President of Finance and resigned as our Chief Financial Officer and
Secretary. As amended, the agreement provides for an annual base salary of
$240,000, to be increased by not less than 3% per year in the event the term of
Mr. Goldstein s employment is extended beyond March 31, 2006. In the
event that (i) prior to March 31, 2006, Mr. Goldstein is terminated
by us for any reason other than for cause, as defined in the agreement, (ii) Mr. Goldstein
resigns for good reason, as defined in the agreement prior to March 31,
2006 or (iii) the employment term expires on March 31, 2006 (and Mr. Goldstein
has not been terminated for cause or resigned other than for good reason), upon
execution and delivery to the Company of a general release, Mr. Goldstein
shall be entitled to receive his salary and employee benefits for a period of
nine months following the end of his employment and Mr. Goldstein s
options shall vest immediately upon the expiration of his employment and shall
remain exercisable for a two year period. In connection with his employment
agreement, Mr. Goldstein agreed not to compete with us during his term of
employment and for one year thereafter.  

Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation   

The Compensation
Committee currently consists of Messrs. Levin and Davis. None of the
members of our Compensation Committee is or has been an officer or employee of
ABNH. No interlocking relationships exist between the board of directors or
Compensation Committee and the board of directors or compensation committee of
any other company, nor has any such interlocking relationship existed in the past.
None of our executive officers or directors serves on the board of directors or
compensation committee of any entity which has one or more executive officers
serving as a member of our board of directors or Compensation Committee.  

Compensation Committee Report on Executive
Compensation   

The Compensation
Committee of the board of directors advises our board of directors on
compensation matters, determines the compensation of the Chief Executive
Officer, reviews and takes action on the recommendation of the Chief Executive
Officer as to the appropriate compensation of other officers and key personnel
and approves the grants of bonuses to officers and key personnel. The
Compensation Committee is also responsible for the administration of our Stock
Incentive Plans. This report of the  

40  

Compensation
Committee shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general
statement incorporating by reference this Annual Report on Form 10-K into
any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent that we specifically
incorporate this information by reference, and shall not otherwise be deemed
filed under such acts.  

Chief Executive Officer
Compensation   

The Compensation
Committee reviews the compensation arrangements for our Chief Executive Officer
at least annually, typically in the fourth and/or first quarter of the fiscal
year. In March 2005, we entered into an Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement with Mr. Traub, which is described above. In determining whether
to enter into the Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with Mr. Traub,
and the compensation arrangements thereunder, the Compensation Committee
considered the terms of his original employment agreement, as amended, his
leadership of the Company, our financial and operational performance during the
preceding year, competitive pay practices, and Mr. Traub s individual
performance and contributions to us. The Compensation Committee believes that Mr. Traub
provides strong leadership to us and has been instrumental in improving our
financial, operating and strategic position.  

In making its
compensation decisions with respect to Mr. Traub for 2005, the
Compensation Committee exercised its discretion and judgment based on the above
factors, relying both on qualitative and quantitative criteria and results. The
Compensation Committee, together with Mr. Traub, established both
quantifiable and qualitative objectives at the beginning of 2005 and weighted
each of these objectives according to their importance to 2005 and future
years. As part of its review of executive compensation, the Compensation
Committee periodically reviews data on CEO compensation provided by independent
compensation consultants. In fiscal 2005, Mr. Traub s salary was $400,000.
The Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with Mr. Traub provides for a
target annual bonus of $100,000, and further provides that the actual bonus may
be more or less than the target based on the Compensation Committee's
reasonable assessment of the Executive's performance against the agreed upon
objectives. Mr. Traub was paid a total year-end discretionary bonus of
$225,000 based on the Compensation Committee s evaluation of his and the
Company s performance for the year as compared to the objectives set at the
beginning of the year.  

ABNH S General
Compensation Policy for Executive Officers   

The fundamental
policy of the Compensation Committee is to provide our executive officers with
competitive compensation packages that are designed to retain key personnel,
motivate executives to advance our objectives and reward contributions to our
operational and financial performance. It is the Compensation Committee s
objective to have a portion of each executive officer s compensation contingent
upon our performance as well as upon each executive officer s own level of
performance. Therefore, the compensation package for each executive officer is
comprised of three different elements: (1) base salary which is designed
primarily to be competitive with salary levels in the industry; (2) cash
bonuses which reflect the achievement of qualitative and quantitative
objectives and goals which are established at the beginning of each year; and (3) long-term
stock-based incentive awards which strengthen the mutuality of interest between
the executive officers and our stockholders.  

Factors   . The principal factors (together with the
factors specified above with respect to Mr. Traub) that the Compensation
Committee considered with respect to each executive officer s compensation for
fiscal 2005 are summarized below. The Compensation Committee may, however, in
its discretion, apply entirely different factors for executive compensation in
future years. 

Base Salary   . The base salary for each executive
officer is specified in his respective employment agreement and was determined
on the basis of the following factors: experience, expected personal
performance, the salary levels in effect for comparable positions within and
outside the industry and internal and external base salary comparability
considerations. The weight given to each of these factors differed from
individual to individual, as the Compensation Committee and the board of
directors 

41  

believed
appropriate.  

Bonus.    Bonus represents the variable component of
the executive compensation program that is tied to our performance and
individual achievement. In determining bonuses, the Compensation Committee
considers factors such as relative performance of ABNH during the year and the
individual s contribution to our performance, the need to attract, retain and
motivate high quality executives as well as the degree to which the executive
officer met or exceeded certain objectives established for him. 

Long-Term Incentive Compensation   . Long-term
incentives are provided through grants of stock options and restricted shares.
The grants are designed to align the interests of each executive officer with
those of the stockholders and provide each individual with a significant
incentive to manage ABNH from the perspective of an owner with an equity stake.
Each stock option grant allows the individual to acquire shares of our common
stock at a fixed price per share over a specified period of time up to ten
years. Each option generally becomes exercisable in installments over a three
or four-year period. Restricted shares are immediately issued and outstanding
with full voting rights as of the grant date but may not be sold or
otherwise transferred by the executive until the restriction lapses three years
from the grant date, Therefore, the option or restricted share grant will
provide a return to the executive officer only if the executive officer remains
employed by ABNH during the vesting period of the options or restriction period
of the restricted shares. Additionally, stock options will only provide a
return to the executive if the market price of the underlying shares
appreciates. The number of shares subject to each option grant is set at a
level intended to create meaningful opportunity for appreciation based on the
executive officer s current position with ABNH, the size of comparable awards
made to individuals in similar positions and the individual s personal performance
in recent periods. The Compensation Committee also considers the number of
unvested stock options held by the executive officer in order to maintain an
appropriate level of equity incentive for that individual. However, the
Compensation Committee does not adhere to any specific guidelines as to the
relative option or restricted stock holdings of our executive officers. 

Internal Revenue Code
Limits on the Deductibility of Compensation   

Section 162(m)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, generally denies
publicly-held corporations a federal income tax deduction for compensation
exceeding $1,000,000 paid to the Chief Executive Officer or any of the four
other highest paid executive officers, excluding performance-based
compensation. Through December 31, 2005, this provision has not limited
our ability to deduct executive compensation, but the Compensation Committee
will continue to monitor the potential impact of Section 162(m) on our
ability to deduct executive compensation. We believe that our compensation
philosophy of paying our executive officers with competitive salaries, cash
bonuses and long-term incentives, as described in this report, serves the best
interest of ABNH and its stockholders.  

THE
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE  

Fred J. Levin  

  Jordan S. Davis  

42  

Item 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.   

The following
table sets forth as of March 15, 2006 certain information regarding
beneficial ownership of our common stock by (1) each person who is known
to us to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of the outstanding shares of
our common stock, (2) each director, (3) each of the Named Executive
Officers and (4) all directors and executive officers as a group. All
persons listed have sole voting and investment power with respect to their
shares unless otherwise indicated. The address of all persons listed is c/o
American Bank Note Holographics, Inc., 2 Applegate Drive, Robbinsville, NJ
08691, unless otherwise indicated.  

* Less than 1%.  

(1) Beneficial
ownership is determined in accordance with the rules of the SEC, and
includes general voting power and/or investment power with respect to
securities. At March 15, 2006, we had 18,888,144 shares of common stock
outstanding. These percentages were calculated based on the total of shares of
common stock outstanding and shares of common stock subject to options
currently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of March 15, 2006,
which are deemed outstanding for computing the percentage beneficially owned by
the person holding such options.  

43  

(2) The
information provided is based solely on a Schedule 13G, as amended, filed
with the SEC on February 13, 2006. Libra Advisors, LLC, the general
partner of Libra Fund, LP owns 1,817,516 shares of common stock. Libra
Advisors, LLC is also the investment adviser of an offshore fund that owns
338,484 shares of our common stock. Libra Advisors, LLC has the power to vote
and to direct the voting of and the power to dispose and direct the disposition
of these 2,156,000 shares. Ranjon Tandon is the sole voting member and manager
of Libra Advisors, LLC and may be deemed to have the power to vote and to
direct the voting of and the power to dispose and direct the disposition of the
2,156,000 shares of common stock beneficially owned by Libra Advisors, LLC.  

(3) The
information provided is based solely on a Schedule 13G, as amended, filed
with the SEC on January 12, 2006. Levy, Harkins   Co., Inc.
( LHC ) is the beneficial owner of 12,700 shares of common stock held in LHC s
pension and profit sharing plans and may be deemed the beneficial owner of
1,486,681 shares of common stock held in individual accounts of investment
advisory clients of LHC. The Gracy Fund, L.P., a private investment company, is
the beneficial owner of 294,500 of common stock. Edwin A. Levy and Michael J.
Harkins are the sole shareholders of LHC and the sole general partners of the
Gracy Fund, L.P. and have shared power to vote or direct the vote of, and
dispose or to direct the disposition of the 1,793,881 shares beneficially owned
or deemed beneficially owned by LHC and beneficially owned by The Gracy Fund,
L.P. Mr. Levy, individually is the beneficial owner of 117,100 of common
stock.  

(4) Includes
936,458 shares of common stock subject to options currently exercisable or
exercisable within 60 days of March 15, 2006. Includes 45,000 shares
of restricted stock that fully vest on January 26, 2009.  

(5) Includes
380,000 shares of common stock subject to options currently exercisable or
exercisable within 60 days of March 15, 2006. Includes 5,000 shares
of restricted stock that fully vest on May 15, 2006.  

(6) Includes
16,666 shares of common stock subject to options currently exercisable or
exercisable within 60 days of March 15, 2006. Includes 15,000 shares of
restricted stock, 5,000 of which fully vest on November 15, 2008 and the
balance of which fully vest on January 26, 2009.  

(7) Includes
26,666 shares of common stock subject to options currently exercisable or
exercisable within 60 days of March 15, 2006.  

(8) Consists
of 207,688 shares of common stock subject to options currently exercisable or
exercisable within 60 days of March 15, 2006. Effective June 9,
2005 Mr. Goldstein became the Vice President Finance and resigned from his
executive officer position as Chief Financial Officer and Secretary.  

(9) Includes
1,530,376 shares of common stock subject to options currently exercisable or
exercisable within 60 days of March 15, 2006. Does not include
options to purchase 207,688 shares of common stock which are currently
exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of March 15, 2006 by Mr. Goldstein,
our former Chief Financial Officer and Secretary.  

44  

Equity
Compensation Plan Information   

The following
table sets forth information as of December 31, 2005 with respect to
shares of our common stock which may be issued under our equity
compensation plans.  

(1)             Represents our 2000 and
2005 Stock Incentive Plans. 

  (2)             Represents our 1998
Stock Incentive Plan. 

Material Terms of the 1998 Stock
Incentive Plan   

On July 20, 1998, we adopted the 1998
Stock Incentive Plan (as amended, the  1998 Plan ). The 1998 Plan was adopted
for the purpose of granting various stock incentives to officers, directors,
employees and consultants of ABNH. The board of directors (or a committee
appointed by the board of directors) has discretionary authority, subject to
certain restrictions, to administer the 1998 Plan. The total number of shares
reserved for issuance under the 1998 Plan are 1,863,000 shares of common stock.
Options to purchase 1,678,000 shares of common stock were outstanding under the
1998 Plan at December 31, 2005. The exercise price of options granted under
the 1998 Plan may not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the
common stock on the date such option was granted. Options granted under the
1998 Plan generally become vested and exercisable for up to either 25% or 33
1/3% of the total optioned shares upon each succeeding anniversary of the date
of grant. Generally, the unexercised portion of any option automatically
terminates upon the termination of the optionee s employment with us, unless
otherwise determined by the board of directors; provided however, that any
extension shall not extend beyond the expiration of the option, generally ten
years. Upon a change in control, outstanding options will generally become
fully vested.  

Material
Terms of the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan   

On August 4,
2000, we adopted the American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. 2000 Stock
Incentive Plan  

45  

(as amended, the  2000
Plan ), which was subsequently approved by our stockholders at our annual
meeting on September 12, 2000. In August 2001, our stockholders
approved an amendment to the 2000 Plan increasing the shares available for
issuance thereunder by 600,000 to 1,350,000 shares. The 2000 Plan was adopted
for the purpose of granting various stock incentives to officers, directors,
employees and consultants of ABNH. The board of directors (or a committee
appointed by the board of directors) has discretionary authority, subject to
certain restrictions, to administer the 2000 Plan. The total number of shares
reserved for issuance under the 2000 Plan is 1,350,000 shares of common stock.
Options to purchase 1,257,272 shares of common stock were outstanding under the
2000 Plan at December 31, 2005. The exercise price of options granted
under the 2000 Plan may not be less than 100% of the fair market value of
the common stock on the date such option was granted. Options granted under the
2000 Plan generally become vested and exercisable for up to either 25% or 33
1/3% of the total optioned shares upon each succeeding anniversary of the date
of grant. Generally, the unexercised portion of any option automatically
terminates upon the termination of the optionee s employment with us, unless
otherwise determined by the board of directors; provided however, that any
extension shall not extend beyond the expiration of the option, generally ten
years. Upon a change in control, outstanding options will generally become
fully vested.  

Material
Terms of the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan   

On August 8,
2005, we adopted the American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. 2005 Stock
Incentive Plan (the  2005 Plan ), which was subsequently approved by our
stockholders at our annual meeting on September 22, 2005. The 2005 Plan
was adopted for the purpose of granting various stock incentives to officers,
directors, employees and consultants of ABNH. The board of directors (or a
committee appointed by the board of directors) has discretionary authority,
subject to certain restrictions, to administer the 2005 Plan. The total number
of shares reserved for issuance under the 2005 Plan is 1,600,000 shares of
common stock. Options to purchase 36,666 shares of common stock were
outstanding under the 2005 Plan at December 31, 2005. During 2005, we
issued 15,000 shares of restricted stock, which were all outstanding under the
2005 Plan at December 31, 2005. The exercise price of options granted
under the 2005 Plan may not be less than 100% of the fair market value of
the common stock on the date such option was granted. Options granted under the
2005 Plan generally become vested and exercisable for up to 33 1/3% of the
total optioned shares upon each succeeding anniversary of the date of grant.
Generally, the unexercised portion of any option automatically terminates upon
the termination of the optionee s employment with us, unless otherwise
determined by the board of directors; provided however, that any extension
shall not extend beyond the expiration of the option, generally ten years. Upon
a change in control, outstanding options will generally become fully vested.  

Item 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.   

On June 30,
2000, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the  Agreement ) with Crane  
Co., Inc. ( Crane ). Under the Agreement, we sold 3,387,720 shares of our
common stock to Crane for an aggregate purchase price of $9,316,230. The
Agreement also provides that our Board of Directors and our audit committee of
our Board of Directors each be expanded by one position, which was filled by
Douglas A. Crane, a representative of Crane. The Agreement also provides that,
for as long as Crane owns at least 51% of the shares of common stock purchased
under the Agreement, Crane shall be entitled to designate one director on the
management slate of nominees to our Board, and that, should our Board be
expanded to a number greater than six, then our Board shall be expanded by
another seat, and Crane shall be entitled to nominate an additional director.  

The Agreement also
contains a standstill provision, whereby Crane agreed, that, among other
things, neither it nor its affiliates, except as otherwise provided for in the
Agreement, will acquire more than its current proportionate share of our
outstanding securities. The standstill provision also provides that Crane will
not offer, sell or transfer any of its voting securities of ABNH during a
tender or exchange offer if  

46  

such offer is
opposed by our board of directors. In connection with the transaction, Crane
also received the right to cause us to register Crane s shares for public
resale and the right to include such shares in any future registration of our
securities, subject to certain exceptions. On November 30, 2005 we were
informed by Crane   Co., Inc. of their intention to sell a
portion or all of their shares in an orderly manner to institutional buyers. On
November 29, 2005, Douglas Crane resigned from the Company s Board of
Directors and Crane has not appointed a replacement.  

During 2000, we
entered into agreements with Crane under which we rent factory space and lease
employees for our facility in Dalton, MA. For the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, we paid Crane under these agreements $72,000 each year,
for the rental of the factory space and $153,000, $169,000 and $162,000,
respectively, for the leased employees.  

Item 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES.   

PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP, our independent
registered public accounting firm for 2005 and Ernst   Young LLP, our
independent registered public accounting firm for 2004 were paid for audit and
other services rendered as set forth below.  

Audit Fees   

Tax fees for 2005 and 2004 pertained to
reviews of our federal and state tax returns.  

The Audit Committee concluded that provision
of these services is compatible with maintaining the principal accountants 
independence.  

Pre-Approval Policies   

The Audit Committee pre-approves all audit
and non-audit services provided by our independent registered public accounting
firm prior to the engagement of the independent registered public accounting
firm with respect to such services. With respect to audit services and
permissible non-audit services not previously approved, the Audit Committee has
authorized the Chairman of the Audit Committee to approve such audit  

47  

services and permissible non-audit services,
provided the Chairman informs the Audit Committee of such approval at its next
regularly scheduled meeting. All  Audit Fees  and  Tax Fees  set forth above
were pre-approved by the Audit Committee in accordance with its pre-approval
policy.  

Part IV   

Item 15.
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

(a)                         The
following documents are filed as part of this report: 

(1)                                     Financial
Statements 

The
financial statements required by this item are submitted in a separate section beginning
on page F-1 of this report.  

(2)                                     Financial
Statement Schedules 

The
financial statement schedule required by this item is submitted in a
separate section on page S-1 of this report.  

Schedules other than that included at page S-1 of this report have
been omitted because of the absence of conditions under which they are required
or because the required information is included in our financial statements or
notes thereto.  

(3)                                     Exhibits 

The
following exhibits are filed as part of this report or are incorporated
herein by reference. Exhibit Nos. 10.4, 10.5, 10.6, 10.7, 10.8, 10.9,
10.10, 10.11, 10.12, 10.13, 10.30, 10.33, 10.34, 10.35 and 10.36 are management
contracts, compensatory plans or arrangements.  

3.1  

Amended and
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation. (1)  

3.2  

Amended and
  Restated By-Laws. (1)  

3.3  

Amendment to the
  Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. (2)  

4.1  

Form of
  Common Stock Certificate. (1)  

4.2   

Stock Purchase
  Agreement by and between Crane   Co., Inc. and American Bank
  Note Holographics, Inc. dated as of June 29, 2000. (3)  

10.1  

Form of
  Separation Agreement, by and between American Bank Note Corporation and
  American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. dated July 20, 1998. (1)  

10.2  

Form of
  License Agreement. (1)  

10.3  

Form of Transitional
  Services Agreement. (1)  

10.4  

Form of
  Employee Benefits Allocation Agreement. (1)  

10.5  

Form of
  1998 Stock Incentive Plan. (1)  

48  

49  

50  

(1)                  Incorporated by
reference from the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333- 51845). 

(2)                  Incorporated by
reference from the Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on July 3, 2001. 

(3)                  Incorporated by
reference from the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 14, 2000. 

(4)                  Incorporated by
reference from the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2000. 

(5)                  Incorporated by
reference from the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333- 61602). 

(6)                  Incorporated by
reference from the Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on August 11, 2000. 

(7)                  Incorporated by
reference from the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 1998. 

(8)                  Incorporated by
reference from the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 1999. 

(9)                  Incorporated by
reference from the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2001. 

(10)            Incorporated by reference
from the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 13, 2002. 

(11)            Incorporated by reference
from the Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2002. 

(12)            Incorporated by reference
from the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 12, 2003. 

(13)            Incorporated by reference
from the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 13, 2003. 

(14)            Incorporated by reference
from the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 20, 2004. 

(15)            Incorporated by reference
from the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 15, 2005. 

(16)            Incorporated by reference
from the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 22, 2005. 

(17)            Incorporated by reference
from the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333- 129686). 

(18)            Incorporated by reference
from the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 13, 2005. 

(+)                 Portions have been
omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment. 

51  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the
requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

AMERICAN BANK NOTE
  HOLOGRAPHICS, INC.  

By:   

/s/ Kenneth H. Traub  

Kenneth H. Traub  

President and Chief
  Executive Officer  

March 31, 2006  

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.  

Signature   

Title   

Date   

/s/ Kenneth H. Traub  

President, Chief
  Executive Officer and  

March 31, 2006  

Kenneth H. Traub  

Director (Principal
  Executive Officer)  

/s/ Mark J. Bonney  

Chief Financial Officer  

March 31, 2006  

Mark J. Bonney  

(Principal Financial
  and Accounting Officer)  

/s/ Salvatore F. D Amato  

Chairman of the Board  

March 31, 2006  

Salvatore F. D Amato  

*  

Director  

March 31, 2006  

Jordan S. Davis  

*  

Director  

March 31, 2006  

Fred J. Levin  

* /s/ Kenneth H. Traub  

Kenneth H. Traub  

Attorney-in fact    

52  

AMERICAN BANK NOTE
HOLOGRAPHICS, INC.  

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

ITEM 15(a)  

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

To the Board of Directors  

  Of American Bank Note
Holographics, Inc.  

In
our opinion, the financial statements listed in the accompanying index present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of American Bank Note
Holographics, Inc. at December 31, 2005, and the results of its     operations and its     cash flows for
the year in the period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in
our opinion, the financial statement schedules listed in the accompanying index       present fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related financial statements. These financial statements and financial
statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedules based on our audit. We conducted our audit of
these statements in accordance with the standards  of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

/s/
  PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP  

Florham
Park, New Jersey  

  March 31, 2006  

F-2  

Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of  

  American Bank Note Holographics, Inc.  

We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of American Bank Note
Holographics, Inc. (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2004 and the related
statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the
two years in the period ended December 31, 2004. Our audits also included the
information for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2004
included in the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a).
These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.  

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of
December 31, 2004 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each
of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2004 in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the information
for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2004 in the related
financial statement schedule when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.  

/s/
  Ernst   Young LLP  

New York, New York  

  March 10, 2005  

F-3  

AMERICAN BANK NOTE
HOLOGRAPHICS, INC.  

BALANCE SHEETS  

  DECEMBER 31, 2005
AND 2004  

  (In Thousands, Except
Share Data)  

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these financial statements.  

F-4  

AMERICAN BANK NOTE
HOLOGRAPHICS, INC.  

STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  

  YEARS ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003  

  (In Thousands, Except Per
Share Data)  

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these financial statements.  

F-5  

AMERICAN BANK NOTE
HOLOGRAPHICS, INC.  

STATEMENTS OF
STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY  

  YEARS ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003  

  (In Thousands)  

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these financial statements.  

F-6  

AMERICAN BANK NOTE
HOLOGRAPHICS, INC.  

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

  YEARS ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003  

  (In Thousands)  

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these financial statements.  

F-7  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
2005, 2004 AND 2003  

1.         BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

American Bank Note
Holographics, Inc. (the  Company  or  ABNH ) was incorporated in the state of
Delaware in August 1985. The Company was, until July 20, 1998, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of American Banknote Corporation (the  Former Parent  or  ABN ).  

ABNH
originates, produces, markets and sells holograms and products incorporating
holograms. The Company s products are used primarily in security applications
including authentication of transaction cards, identity documents, value
documents and various consumer products. The Company operates in one reportable
industry segment.  

Use of Estimates   The
preparation of financial statements, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles, requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and
the reported amounts of sales and expenses during the reporting period. On an
ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to bad debts,
inventories and intangible assets. These estimates and assumptions are based on
historical results and trends as well as our forecasts as to how these might
change in the future. In addition, theses estimates and assumptions have been
influenced by our current knowledge of the impact of the VISA Decision. (see
Note 11. Subsequent Event). Actual results may differ materially from our
estimates.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents
  All highly liquid investments (primarily government bonds) with a maturity of
three months or less, when purchased, are considered to be cash equivalents and
are stated at cost, which approximates market.  

Short-Term Investments  
Short-term investments consists of a government bond which matured February 22,
2005. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ( SFAS )
No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, 
management determines the appropriate classification of marketable securities
at the time of purchase and reevaluates such designations as of each balance
sheet date. This investment was classified as held to maturity and carried at
its amortized cost until its maturity date.  

Concentrations of
Credit Risk   A significant portion of the Company s accounts receivable are
due from credit card issuers and related credit card manufacturers located
throughout the United States and Europe. At December 31, 2005 two customers
each accounted for 22% of the Company s accounts receivable and 30% and 11%,
respectively of its sales for the year then ended. At December 31, 2004 each of
three customers accounted for 28%, 19% and 11%, respectively, of the Company s
accounts receivable and 35%, 9% and 6%, respectively, of its sales for the year
then ended. The Company establishes its credit policies based on an ongoing
evaluation of its customers  creditworthiness and competitive market conditions
and does not require collateral.  

Inventories   Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost being determined on the
first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.  

Revenue
Recognition    The Company
recognizes revenue in accordance with the provisions of the SEC s Staff
Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 104,  Revenue Recognition (an amendment of SAB
101,  Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements ).   Specifically, sales and the related cost of
goods sold are generally recognized at the latter of the time of shipment or
when title passes to customers. In some 

F-8  

situations, the Company has shipped product where the sale is
contingent upon the customers  use of the product. In these situations, the
Company does not recognize sales upon product shipment, but rather when the
buyer of the product informs the Company that the product has been used.
Additionally, pursuant to the request of and agreement with a certain customer,
completed items are stored on behalf of the customer at the Company s on-site
secured facility and, in that instance, sales are recognized when all of the
following have occurred: the customer has ordered the goods pursuant to a fixed
price purchase order, the manufacturing process is complete, the goods have
been transferred to the on-site secured facility and are ready for shipment,
the risk of ownership has passed to the customer, the customer has been billed
for the order and collection of the invoice is considered probable .  The Company only accepts returns of product
sold to customers when the product is determined to not be in conformance with
the specifications previously agreed upon with such customers in accordance
with the terms of its warranty policy and generally replaces the product. 

Shipping and handling
amounts billed to customers are included in revenues and amounted to $867,000,
$433,000 and $358,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. Shipping and handling costs are included in selling and
administrative expenses.  

Royalty Income   The
Company enters into licensing agreements with certain manufacturers under which
the Company receives royalty payments. Royalty payments due under licensing
agreements are recognized as income either based upon shipment reports from
licensees, where available, or estimated shipments by such licensees.  

Depreciation and
Amortization   Machinery and equipment are recorded at cost and are depreciated
using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset.
Estimated useful lives are generally as follows: Machinery and production
equipment - 5 to 15 years; Furniture and fixtures   5 to 7 years and  Computer equipment - 3 to 5 years.
Amortization of leasehold improvements is computed using the straight-line
method based upon the remaining term of the applicable lease, or the estimated
useful life of the asset, whichever is shorter, currently 13 years.  

Long-Lived Assets  
Long-lived assets used in operations are reviewed for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the
assets might not be recoverable. For long-lived assets to be held and used, the
Company recognizes an impairment loss only if its carrying amount is not
recoverable through its undiscounted cash flows and measures the impairment
loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and fair value.  

Warranty Costs   The
Company provides for warranty costs in amounts it estimates will be needed to
cover future warranty obligations for products sold. Estimates of warranty
costs are based on historical experience and are periodically reviewed and
adjusted, when necessary. The Company s product warranty provision is included
in accrued expenses in the accompanying balance sheets. Changes in the Company s
warranty provision during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are
displayed in the following table. The significant change in warranties provided
in 2005 is principally due to increased volume in the quarter ended December
31, 2005 and an additional provision recorded in the quarter ended December 31,
2005 for potential non-ESD related warranty claims as a result of the VISA
Decision. (see Note 11. Subsequent Event)  

F-9  

Research and Development  
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.  

Income Taxes   The
Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting
for Income Taxes.  The provision for income taxes includes deferred income
taxes resulting from items reported in different periods for income tax and
financial statement purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities represent the
expected future tax consequences of the differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax basis.  

Stock-Based Compensation  
The Company accounts for stock options granted to employees and directors using
the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees , and its related interpretations. The Company
adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation , and accordingly the Company does not recognize
compensation expense for stock option grants made at an exercise price equal to
or in excess of the fair market value of the stock at the date of grant.  

Had compensation cost for
the Company s outstanding stock options been determined based on the fair value
at the grant dates for options consistent with SFAS No. 123, the Company s net
(loss) income and basic and diluted net (loss) income per share would have
differed as reflected by the pro forma amounts, calculated using the
Black-Scholes model to estimate the fair value of the options at grant date,
indicated below:  

Basic and Diluted Net
(Loss) Income per Share   Basic net (loss) income per share is computed based
on the weighted average number of outstanding shares of common stock. The basic
weighted average number of shares outstanding were 18,593,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2005, 18,489,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 and
18,484,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003. Diluted net income (loss) per
share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number
of shares of common stock outstanding and dilutive potential shares of common
stock. As the Company was in a loss position for the year ended December 31,
2005 dilutive stock options were excluded from the calculation of dilutive
earnings per share as the shares would have had an anti-dilutive effect. For
the year ended December 31, 2004 the diluted number of weighted shares
outstanding was 18,907,000 which included dilutive stock options of 418,000.
For the year ended December 31, 2003, the diluted weighted average number of
shares outstanding was 18,526,000 which included dilutive stock options of
42,000.  

Business Concentration Risks     A significant portion of the Company s business is derived from orders
placed by certain transaction card companies and manufacturers of transaction
cards, and variations in the timing of such orders can cause significant
fluctuations in the Company s sales. Sales to transaction card companies
and manufacturers of transaction cards accounted for approximately 86% of our
total sales in 2005 and 84% of our total sales in 2004. The traditional hot
stamp patch hologram on many transaction 

F-10  

cards is being
phased out by some of our major customers and is being replaced by an
integrated holographic magnetic stripe. We previously reported that we had
learned of a small number of incidents in which certain card terminals had been
affected by 
electro-static discharge ( ESD ) from static electricity carried on cards
incorporating the current version of HoloMag. We have been advised by customers
that there is a need to develop a second generation holographic magnetic tape
product that addresses ESD and we have commenced such development. There can be
no assurance that we will be successful in developing such a product that will
be acceptable to our customers. Further there can be no assurance that a
competitor of ours will not develop an acceptable product that is adopted by
our customers. 

Sales
to MasterCard for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were
approximately 31%, 35%, and 33%, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004,
accounts receivable from MasterCard approximated $1.5 million and $1.1 million,
respectively. We entered into an agreement with MasterCard dated February 28,
2003, which replaced the agreement dated February 1, 1996, as amended. We
entered into an amendment to this agreement on September 29, 2003, in which
MasterCard retained us to produce a new hologram for the Debit MasterCard and
extended the agreement to February 2011, subject to automatic renewal if not
terminated by either party. This agreement provided for MasterCard to receive
three sequential price reductions of approximately 3% each, effective at the
beginning of 2003, 2004 and 2006. We entered into an additional amendment to
the agreement with MasterCard on August 24, 2005 in which MasterCard named the
Company as its supplier of holographic magnetic stripes ( HoloMag  ) and
extended the agreement through February 28, 2013, subject to automatic renewal.
The Company is the exclusive supplier of holograms and holographic magnetic
stripes to MasterCard.  

Sales of
VISA holograms (which includes HoloMag starting in the three month period ended
September 30, 2005) to manufacturers of VISA transaction cards were
approximately 37%, 31% and 30% of sales for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively. Currently we are one of two companies authorized
to manufacture and sell the VISA Dove hot stamp holograms to manufacturers of
VISA brand transaction cards. On March 15, 2005, VISA announced its intention
to phase out the Dove hot stamp hologram that we supply for the front of the
VISA card, and to replace it with an integrated holographic magnetic stripe. On
April 8, 2005, we entered into an Agreement with VISA, pursuant to which we
were authorized to supply HoloMag to VISA-approved card manufacturers. We
previously reported that we had learned of a small number of incidents in which
certain card terminals had been affected by electro-static discharge ( ESD )
from static electricity carried on cards incorporating HoloMag. On March 14,
2006, we were informed by VISA that, as a result of the ESD issue, VISA is
informing its member financial institutions and authorized card manufacturers
that (i) VISA will no longer approve VISA card designs which incorporate
the current version of HoloMag, (ii) VISA strongly recommends that their
members attempt to avoid further issuance of cards incorporating the current
version of HoloMag and (iii) VISA recommends that their members follow an
alternate card design incorporating a conventional magnetic stripe and Dove
hologram and VISA provided notice to us that it was revoking our right to
produce HoloMag under its agreement (the  VISA Decision ). We are continuing to
evaluate VISA s actions and claims and have submitted an initial response to
VISA.    In the quarter ended December 31, 2005, as a result of the VISA
Decision, we recorded a pre-tax charge amounting to approximately $5.0 million
of which $4.8 million was recorded in cost of goods sold and was principally
related to the value of our HoloMag inventory. Also included in the charge were
increases in our provisions for accounts receivable and potential non-ESD
related warranty claims. We will review the valuation of these accounts on an
ongoing basis as part of our closing process and make appropriate changes to
our reserve levels based upon the facts at the time.  

F-11  

We purchase certain key materials used in the manufacture of our
products, and subcontract certain production functions or products    from third parties some of which are sole
suppliers. In some cases, we do not have supply contracts with our suppliers,
and operate on a purchase order basis. In the case of HoloMag, we have a single supplier, CFC International,
Inc., with whom we have a supply contract. We may not be able to find
alternative sources in a timely manner if our suppliers or subcontractors
become unwilling or unable to supply us, or if they increase their prices. Our
inability to obtain key products or product components or to have certain
processes performed on our behalf could cause delays or reduce product
shipments, which could cause our relationship with customers to suffer and
materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows. 

Export
Sales     During
2005, 2004 and 2003, export sales accounted for approximately 34%, 21% and 28%,
respectively, of total sales. All of our export sales are presently denominated
in U.S. dollars. At December 31, 2005
and 2004, accounts receivable from these customers approximated $2.0 and $.5
million, respectively. 

Fair
Value of Financial Instruments   The Company s financial instruments consist of
cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivables,
accounts payable and accrued expenses. The carrying amounts reported in the
balance sheets approximate their fair value at both December 31, 2005 and 2004.  

Comprehensive Income  
Comprehensive income is equal to net income in all periods.  

Reclassifications   Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified
to conform with the current year s presentation.  

Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards     In December 2004, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Statement No. 123(R) (FAS 123R),   Share-Based
Payment  , revising FAS 123 and requiring that all share-based
payments to employees be recognized in the financial statements. Generally, the
approach to accounting for share-based payments in FAS 123R is similar to the
approach described in FAS 123, however, pro forma footnote disclosure will no
longer be an alternative to financial statement recognition. This statement, as
amended, becomes effective in the first annual period beginning after June 15,
2005. The Company has adopted the new statement effective January 1, 2006,
using the modified-prospective transition method described in the statement.
Under this method, the Company will be required to recognize compensation
expense over the remaining vesting period for all awards that remain unvested
as of January 1, 2006. As permitted by FAS 123, the Company currently accounts
for share-based payments to employees using APB 25 s intrinsic value method
and, as such, generally recognized no compensation cost for employee stock
options. For an approximate impact on 2006 results refer to the pro-forma
results shown above in Note 1.  Stock-based Compensation . 

In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
Statement No. 151 (FAS 151),   Inventory Costs  ,
an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. FAS 151 clarifies that abnormal amounts
of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted materials should
be recognized as current period charges. In addition, FAS 151 requires that
allocation of fixed production overhead to inventory be based on the normal
capacity of the production facilities. FAS 151 is effective for inventory costs
incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company
currently believes that the adoption of FAS 151 will not have a material impact
on its financial statements.  

In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued
interpretation No. 47,   Accounting for Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations  , an interpretation of SFAS No. 143.
This interpretation clarifies that the term of   conditional
asset retirement obligation   refers to a legal obligation  

F-12  

to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or
method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be
within the control of the entity. The obligation to perform the asset
retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the
timing and/or method of settlement. Accordingly, an entity is required to
recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement
obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The
provisions of Interpretation 47 are effective for fiscal years ending after
December 15, 2005. The adoption of this statement will not have an impact to
the Company s financial statement presentation since there have been no conditional
asset retirement obligations.  

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB )
issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 154,   Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  , a replacement of
APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. This statement changes the requirements for
the accounting for and the reporting of a change in accounting principle. This
statement requires retrospective application to prior period financial
statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to
determine either the period-specific effects of the cumulative effect of the
change. Indirect effects of a change in accounting principle should be
recognized in the period of the accounting change. The provisions of SFAS No.
154 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The
Company has adopted this Statement beginning January 1, 2006.  

2.                  INVENTORIES,
NET 

Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost or market (first-in, first-out method). As a
result of the VISA Decision (see Note 12, Subsequent Event) in the quarter
ended December 31, 2005, we adjusted the value of HoloMag inventory by
$4,018,000 reflecting the lower of cost or market value at December 31, 2005.  

3.                  MACHINERY,
EQUIPMENT AND LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS 

F-13  

Depreciation and
amortization of machinery and equipment and leasehold improvements for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $1,291,000, $824,000 and
$733,000, respectively.  

4.                  ACCRUED
EXPENSES 

5.     INCOME TAXES  

Provision for income
taxes are as follows:  

F-14  

A reconciliation of the
taxes on income in 2005, 2004 and 2003 is as follows:  

The tax effects of the
items comprising the Company s deferred income tax assets and liabilities are
as follows:  

Deferred income taxes
arise from temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and
liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements.  

6.                  STOCKHOLDERS 
EQUITY 

On June 11, 1998, the
Company increased its authorized common stock to 30,000,000 shares and its
authorized preferred stock to 5,000,000 shares. On July 20, 1998, the Former
Parent completed the sale of 13,636,000 shares of the Company s common stock in
a public offering (the  Offering ), representing its entire investment in the
Company. During 2001 and 2002 the Company issued and distributed 1,460,000
shares of its common stock as well as warrants to purchase 863,647 shares of
the Company s common stock, at an exercise price of $6.00 per share in
settlement of the class action lawsuit filed against the Company in 1999. The
warrants expired on June 18, 2003. None of the warrants were exercised. On
August 10, 2001, the Company s stockholders approved an amendment to the
Company s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation increasing the number
of authorized shares of its common stock to 40,000,000 shares.  

On June 30, 2000, the
Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the  Agreement ) with Crane
  Co., Inc. ( Crane ). Under the Agreement, the Company sold 3,387,720
shares of the Company s common stock to Crane for an aggregate purchase price
of $9,316,230. The Agreement also provides that  

F-15  

the Board of Directors of
the Company and the audit committee of the Board of Directors each be expanded
by one position, which was filled by Douglas A. Crane, a representative of
Crane. Mr. Crane resigned from our Board of Directors on November 29, 2005 and
on November 30, 2005 we were informed by Crane   Co., Inc. of their
intention to sell a portion or all of their shares in an orderly manner. Crane
has not sold any of its shares as of March 15, 2006.  

The Agreement also
contains a standstill provision, whereby Crane agreed, that, among other
things, neither it nor its affiliates, except as otherwise provided for in the
Agreement, will acquire more than its current proportionate share of the
outstanding securities of the Company. The standstill provision also provides
that Crane will not offer, sell or transfer any of its voting securities of the
Company during a tender or exchange offer if such offer is opposed by the
Company s Board of Directors.  

During 2000, the Company
entered into additional agreements with Crane under which the Company rents
factory space and leases employees for the Company s facility in Dalton, MA.
For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company paid Crane
under these agreements, $72,000 each year, for the rental of factory space and
$153,000, $169,000 and $162,000, respectively, for the leased employees, which
are primarily included in cost of goods sold in the accompanying statements of
operations.  

7.                  FACILITY
CONSOLIDATION 

On
December 14, 2004, the Company entered into agreements to lease a 134,000
square foot modern manufacturing and office building in Robbinsville, New
Jersey, which is the site of its primary operations following the closure,
relocation and consolidation of its operations in Elmsford, New York and
Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania into the Robbinsville site. The Company
completed the relocation and consolidation of its operations during 2005. The
Robbinsville facility provides substantial room for expansion as the Company
consolidated its operations that were being conducted within a 58,000 square
foot facility in Elmsford, New York and a 30,000 square foot facility in Huntingdon
Valley, Pennsylvania into the new facility. We are currently evaluating the
possible use of the Huntingdon Valley facility for certain manufacturing and
secure storage. The Company has also acquired and installed additional
equipment and technology in the new facility to broaden its capabilities to
serve its target customers, expand capacity, become more vertically integrated
and improve efficiency.  

The base rent on the lease for the Robbinsville, New Jersey facility is
$555,000 per year, increasing by 1.9% per year, and the first seven months of
the lease were rent-free. We recorded a minimal amount of deferred rent in 2004
and $0.4 million in 2005. The term of the lease for the Robbinsville facility
extends through May 31, 2017, and at the expiration of the term, we have
options to renew the lease for three consecutive five year periods at the then
fair market value and also have an option to purchase the building after the
end of the original lease term for the adjusted fair market value as defined in
the lease agreement. The base rent on the lease in Huntingdon Valley,
Pennsylvania is $144,000 per year. The lease on this facility expires on June
30, 2007. The base rent on the lease in Elmsford, New York is $746,000 per
year. The lease on this facility expires on December 31, 2007. As the Elmsford
facility was abandoned as part of our move and consolidation in 2005 the
remaining rent through the end of the lease term has been charged to facility
consolidation expense in 2005.  

We invested approximately $6.1 million through 2005 in capital assets
relating to the move and consolidation, of which approximately $5.2 million was
expended in 2005 and $.9 million was expended in 2004. These expenditures were
for facility upgrades to customize the Robbinsville, New Jersey facility for
the Company s operational and security requirements as well as the acquisition
of new equipment to upgrade and expand our production capabilities.  

The
following table illustrates the costs incurred in the relocation and
consolidation in the years ended  

F-16  

December
31, 2004 and 2005 and anticipated in 2006 and 2007.  

8.        STOCK
INCENTIVE PLANS 

On
August 8, 2005, we adopted the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2005 Plan ),
which was subsequently approved by our stockholders at the annual meeting on
September 22, 2005. The number of shares available for issuance under the 2005
Stock Incentive Plan is 1,600,000.  On August 4, 2000, we adopted the
American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended,
the  2000 Plan ), which was subsequently approved by our stockholders at our
annual meeting on September 12, 2000. In August 2001, our stockholders approved
an amendment to the 2000 Plan increasing the shares available for issuance
thereunder by 600,000 to 1,350,000 shares. On July 20, 1998, we adopted the
1998 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended, the  1998 Plan , and collectively with
the 2000 Plan and the 2005 Plan, the  Plans ). The Plans were adopted for the
purpose of granting various stock incentives to officers, directors, employees
and consultants of ABNH. The board of directors (or a committee appointed by
the board of directors) has discretionary authority, subject to certain
restrictions, to administer the Plans. The total number of shares reserved for
issuance under the Plans are 4,813,000 shares of common stock. Options to
purchase 2,971,938 shares of common stock were outstanding under the Plans at
December 31, 2005. The exercise price of options granted under the Plans may
not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the common stock on the date
such option was granted. Options granted under the Plans generally become
vested and exercisable for up to either 25% or 33 1/3% of the total optioned
shares upon each succeeding anniversary of the date of grant. Generally, the unexercised
portion of any option automatically terminates upon the termination of the
optionee s employment with us, unless otherwise determined by the board of
directors; provided however, that any extension shall not extend beyond the
expiration of the option, generally ten years. Upon a change in control,
outstanding options will generally become fully vested. Additionally at
December 31, 2005, 15,000 shares of restricted stock had been issued.
Restricted stock will fully vest three years from the date of issuance if the
grantee is employed at that time. On January 26, 2006, we granted options to
purchase an aggregate of 30,000 shares of common stock to our executive
officers and directors and 193,000 shares of common stock to our employees at
an exercise price equal to the fair value of the common stock at the date of
the grant. Additionally we issued 60,000 restricted shares to executive
officers and 79,000 restricted shares to employees on that date.  

F-17  

A summary of the status
of the Company s outstanding stock options as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 and changes during the years then ended follows:  

The
following table summarizes information concerning outstanding and exercisable
options at December 31, 2005:  

The fair value of each
option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:  

9.                  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
PLANS 

Retirement Plans   On
October 1, 1999, the Company implemented defined contribution plans for its
employees. Aggregate contributions to such plans, which have been charged to
the Company s operations, were approximately $57,000, $59,000 and $56,000 for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

10.            COMMITMENTS AND
CONTINGENCIES 

The Company currently,
and from time to time, is involved in litigation (as both plaintiff and
defendant) incidental to the conduct of its business; however, the Company is
not a party to any lawsuit or proceeding which, in the opinion of management of
the Company, is likely to have a material impact on the Company s financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.  

F-18  

Product Liability Matters
  The Company provides holograms in connection with a wide range of its
customers  products, in which case it is possible that the Company is subject
to product liabilities in association with those products or in connection with
the holograms used with those products. Although the Company maintains product
liability insurance, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be
available to cover any such claim or available in amounts sufficient to cover
all potential liabilities. As a result, product liability claims could have a
material adverse effect on the Company s business, financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows.  

Leases   The Company has
long-term operating leases for offices, manufacturing facilities and equipment,
which expire through 2017. The Company has three five year renewal options on
its Robbinsville location, which provides for renewal rents based upon the
adjusted fair market rental value, as defined in the lease agreement.  

Rental expense was
approximately $1.3 million, $1.2 million and $1.3 million for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

At December 31, 2005,
future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases, expiring
through 2017, are as follows: $1.6 million in 2006; $1.4 million in 2007; $0.6
million in 2008; $0.6 million in 2009 and $4.8 million, thereafter.  

Employment Agreements  
The Company entered into employment agreements with certain of its current
executive officers, which provide for, among other matters, minimum
compensation of approximately $0.8 million in 2006 and $0.8 million in 2007.
The agreements also provide for bonuses. In connection with these agreements,
the Company granted options to acquire 1,567,500 shares of its common stock
from February 1999 through December 2005, at prices ranging from $0.85 to $6.40
per share, representing the fair market value of the Company s common stock on
the dates of grants.  

11.      Subsequent
Event 

The
Company previously reported that it had learned that there had been a small
number of incidents in which certain card terminals had been affected by
electro-static discharge ( ESD ) from static electricity carried on cards
incorporating HoloMag. The Company also reported at that date that it had been
advised by customers of a need to develop a second generation holographic
magnetic tape product that addresses the ESD issue, and that the Company had
commenced such development, but that there can be no assurance that the Company
will be successful in developing such a product that will be acceptable to its
customers.  

On
March 14, 2006, we were informed by VISA that, as a result of the ESD issue,
VISA is informing its member financial institutions and authorized card
manufacturers that (i) VISA will no longer approve VISA card designs which
incorporate the current version of HoloMag, (ii) VISA strongly recommends
that their members attempt to avoid further issuance of cards incorporating the
current version of HoloMag and (iii) VISA recommends that their members
follow an alternate card design incorporating a conventional magnetic stripe
and Dove hologram and VISA also provided notice to us that it was revoking our
right to produce HoloMag under its agreement (the  VISA Decision ). The Company
continues to evaluate VISA s actions and claims and has provided VISA with its
initial response. The Company believes that it is in compliance with its
agreement with VISA and that its HoloMag product complies with all standards
and specifications therein. As a result of VISA s notification to financial
institutions and authorized card manufacturers, the Company has received
communications from VISA authorized card manufacturers seeking to address the
status and disposition of their HoloMag inventory and orders.  

F-19  

Accordingly,      in the quarter ended December 31,
2005, as a result of the VISA Decision, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge
amounting to approximately $5.0 million of which $4.8 million was recorded in
cost of goods sold and was principally related to the value of our HoloMag
inventory. Also included in the charge were increases in our provisions for
accounts receivable and potential non-ESD related warranty claims.We will
review the valuation of these accounts on an ongoing basis as part of our
closing process and make appropriate changes to our reserve levels based upon
the facts at the time.  

F-20  

Schedule II  

AMERICAN BANK NOTE
HOLOGRAPHICS, INC.  

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
ACCOUNTS  

  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
2005, 2004 AND 2003  

(1)  Accounts deemed to be uncollectible.  

  (2)  Destruction of obsolete inventory.  

S-1  

<EX-10.31>
 2
 a06-2153_1ex10d31.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.31   

CERTAIN
PORTIONS OF THIS EXHIBIT HAVE BEEN AFFORDED CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT UNDER RULE
24b-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934. THE OMITTED MATERIALS HAVE BEEN
FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION.   

DEVELOPMENT, SUPPLY AND SUBCONTRACTING
AGREEMENT   

This Development, Supply and
Subcontracting Agreement (the  Agreement ), dated as of May 30, 2001, is by and
between American Bank Note Holographics, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( ABNH ),
with its principal place of business at 399 Executive Boulevard, Elmsford, NY
10523, and CFC International, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( CFC ), with its
principal place of business at 500 State Street, Chicago Heights, IL 60411.
Each of ABNH and CFC is sometimes referred to herein individually as a  Party 
and collectively as the  Parties.   

RECITALS   

WHEREAS, CFC currently
manufactures coatings and holographic products and with the assistance of ABNH,
has been formulating certain new foil products and coatings for the use of ABNH
for (i) holomagnetic stripes, which are collectively referred to herein as  Holomag
Foils  (Holomag  is a registered trademark of ABNH);  

WHEREAS, ABNH is a manufacturer
of security holograms, and embosses holograms onto hot stamp foil;  

WHEREAS, ABNH has been providing
and wishes to continue to provide to CFC certain proprietary information and
materials of ABNH concerning holography, ABNH s foil and coating requirements,
the requirements of ABNH s customers, and other information consistent with the
intent of this Agreement ( ABNH Proprietary Information  and  

WHEREAS, ABNH wishes to purchase
from CFC, and CFC wishes to sell to ABNH, the Holomag Foils, and any
improvements thereon that result from information supplied by ABNH or that were
developed on behalf of ABNH, and certain subcontracting services including new
foil formulations, embossing, coating and applications thereof, and any
improvements thereon that result from information supplied by ABNH or that were
developed on behalf of ABNH (the  Services ), subject to the price,
specifications, customer and authorizing authorities requirements, scheduling
and payment terms ( Terms ) set forth on  Schedules A and B  attached
hereto.  

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties
covenant and agree as follows:  

1.                 Obligations
of ABNH . 

(a)              ABNH
agrees to use reasonable efforts to assist CFC in the development of Holomag
Foils for projects identified by ABNH. Such efforts may include consultations
with CFC technical personnel regarding the characteristics of the Holomag Foils
required by ABNH and its customers, trials, testing and feedback to CFC. 

(b)              ABNH
agrees to submit to CFC Purchase Orders specifying the amount and type of
Holomag Foils it wishes to purchase from CFC, if any, in accordance with the
Terms on a  

1  

periodic basis,
assuming the Holomag Foils have been accepted for use by ABNH and its
customers.  

(c)              ABNH
agrees to remit payment to CFC within 30 days from date of receipt of a valid
invoice. 

(d)              It is the
intent for CFC to supply substantially all of ABNH s HoloMag foil needs
assuming, in ABNH s sole discretion, CFC meets ABNH s and its customers 
requirements of quality, service, security and delivery. 

2.                 Obligations
of CFC . 

(a)              CFC agrees
to use reasonable efforts to develop and modify the Holomag Foils in accordance
with the specifications provided by ABNH from time to time. CFC will retain
ownership of all such technology developments and ABNH will retain ownership of
its intellectual property and other Proprietary Information. 

(b)              CFC agrees
that the Holomag Foils are being developed and sold for the exclusive use of
ABNH. CFC shall not during the term of this Agreement and for a period of two
(2) years after termination sell or offer to sell the Holomag Foils or any
products incorporating the Holomag Foils to any third party without the prior
written consent of ABNH. CFC will not, at any time, solicit business from *, *,
*, * or *. With the prior written approval of ABNH, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld, CFC may sell HoloMag to other issuers of credit cards on
behalf of ABNH. In this event, ABNH will still buy HoloMag foils from CFC and
ABNH will set the price and resell to the customer, but the price will be [*]
the price set forth on Schedule B hereof. CFC agrees to supply the Holomag
Foils to ABNH in accordance with the Terms and Purchase Orders submitted by
ABNH. 

(c)              CFC agrees
that during the term of this Agreement, and for a period of two (2) years after
termination, it shall not solicit any client or customer of ABNH whose business
requirements become known to CFC as a result of this Agreement. 

3.                 Term
and Termination . 

(a)              The term
of this Agreement shall be for five (5) years and shall automatically renew for
successive terms of five (5) years unless either Party provides the other Party
not less than twelve (12) months notice of non-renewal thereof (the  Term ). 

(b)              This
Agreement may be terminated in the event of a commencement of a voluntary or
involuntary bankruptcy proceeding by or against either Party under the United
States Bankruptcy Code or any successor statute; which proceedings are not
dismissed with prejudice within sixty (60) days after their institution; or
upon the assignment of a substantial part of either Party s assets for the
benefit of its creditors; or in the event any substantial part of either Party s
assets or inventory become subject to levy, seizure, assignment, garnishment or 

*Confidential  

2  

sale for or by any creditor or governmental agency,
unless released, satisfied or otherwise resolved within thirty (30) days.  

(c)              In the
event of material breach of any provision of this Agreement, and specifically
non-payment of invoices not being disputed in good faith, or any Purchase Order
submitted in accordance with this Agreement, (a  Default ) the defaulting Party
shall have thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice thereof by the
non-defaulting Party within which to cure such default. In the event such
breach has not been cured within such period of time, the non-defaulting Party
may upon notice to the defaulting Party terminate this Agreement. 

(d)              The right
to terminate this Agreement granted hereby shall not prejudice any other right
or remedy of either Party in respect of the Default concerned or any other
Default. 

4.                 Representations
and Warranties of CFC . 

CFC hereby represents and
warrants to ABNH as follows:  

(a)              that it
has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to perform fully its obligations hereunder. The execution and
delivery by CFC of this Agreement and the performance by CFC of its obligations
hereunder have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate
action on the part of CFC. This Agreement has been duly executed by CFC, and
this Agreement is a legal, valid and binding obligation of CFC enforceable
against it in accordance with its terms (except as the enforceability thereof
may be limited by any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other laws affecting
creditors  rights generally or by general principles of equity, regardless of
whether such enforceability is considered in equity or at law). 

(b)              that the
Holomag Foils will be manufactured by CFC in accordance with specifications set
forth on  Schedule A,  as such  Schedule A  may be amended from time
to time by mutual agreement of the parties. CFC agrees to replace at its own
expense any HoloMag Foils that are supplied to ABNH which are not in
conformance with the specifications set forth on Schedule A. 

(c)              that the
Holomag Foils will not be manufactured or sold or priced in violation of any
federal, state or local law and that CFC has complied with and will continue to
comply with all laws and conform to all requirements of each applicable governmental
authority with respect to the supply of the ordered Holomag Foils, including
those concerning the packaging, storage, shipment and exportation of all or any
part thereof, and will ensure that no chemical substance delivered to ABNH is
on the list of prohibited substances described in any applicable environmental
laws. CFC will obtain all federal, provincial, state, municipal and other government
or regulatory licenses, permits or other documents or permissions that are
required and that are incidental to the sale or shipment of the ordered
materials or items to ABNH. 

(d)              that the
Holomag Foils, as manufactured in accordance with the specifications set forth
on  Schedule A,  are fit for use as holographic magnetic foils to be used
for the applications contemplated by this Agreement as long as the foils are
applied in accordance with CFC s technical specifications. 

3  

that CFC will own, or will have the full right to use
all intellectual property rights and technology which will be used or practiced
in order for CFC to manufacture and sell the Holomag Foils in connection with
the transactions contemplated hereby and that the manufacture, sale and use of
the Holomag Foils as contemplated hereby shall in no way infringe upon the
intellectual property rights of any third party. ABNH has authority to grant
CFC the right to manufacture Holomag Foils on behalf of ABNH in accordance with
this Agreement.  

5.                 Representations
and Warranties of ABNH . 

(a)              ABNH has
all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this
Agreement and to perform fully its obligations hereunder. The execution and
delivery by ABNH of this Agreement and the performance by ABNH of its
obligations hereunder have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary
corporate action on the part of ABNH. This Agreement has been duly executed by
ABNH, and this Agreement is a legal, valid and binding obligation of ABNH
enforceable against it in accordance with its terms. 

(b)              ABNH has complied with, and will continue,
during the performance of its obligations hereunder, to comply with, all laws
and conform to all requirements of each applicable governmental authority with
respect to the Holomag Foils, payment therefor and importation thereof. 

6.                 Confidentiality . 

In connection with this
agreement, both parties will be supplying the other party with proprietary
information relating to their business operations and the development of the
Holomag Foils ( Information ). Both Parties agree that any Information shall be
maintained in strict confidence. Both Parties agree that it will disclose the
Information only to those of its officers, agents and employees who are subject
to an agreement which provides similar restrictions on disclosure as are
provided herein and who are directly concerned with the use of the Information
for the purposes specified herein, and that it will take all necessary and
reasonable precautions to prevent such Information from being disclosed to any
unauthorized person. Each Party shall not have any obligation of
confidentiality with respect to any Information that:  

(a)              was
already in its possession prior to receipt from the other Party or is developed
independently of Information received from the other Party as evidenced by the
written records of the receiving Party; 

(b)              is
or hereafter becomes in the public domain by public use, publication, general
knowledge or the like through no fault of the receiving Party; 

(c)              is
properly obtained by the receiving Party from a third party not under any
obligation to the disclosing Party or any of its affiliates to keep such
information confidential; and 

(d)              is
required to be disclosed by a court of law, in which case, the disclosing party
must promptly notify the other party in writing as soon as practical. 

7.                 Indemnification  

(a)              Each Party
will indemnify and hold the other harmless from and against any claim, demand,
cause of action, damage, costs and expenses which the other might sustain or  

4  

become liable for
arising from or in connection with that Party s performance or nonperformance
hereunder.  

(b)              ABNH will defend, at ABNH s own expense, all suits, actions or
proceedings in which ABNH, or the users, lessees or customers of any of ABNH s products, are made defendants for actual or
alleged infringement of any copyright, trademark, trade secret, mask work
right, Canadian, U.S. or other foreign patent or other intellectual property
right resulting from the possession, use, sale or resale of any Base Foil
purchased hereunder. If by virtue of a patent infringement suit an injunction
is issued against ABNH which prohibits or limits the use of any materials or
items ordered or purchased hereunder or CFC notifies ABNH to cease use of any
materials or items purchased hereunder, ABNH, at CFC s request, will supply CFC with
non-infringing replacement materials or items of a similar kind, quality and
quantity. CFC will cease use of materials or items purchased hereunder which
are subject to an infringement action upon receipt of notice of such action and
upon request by CFC. CFC s
obligations under this Section 3(g) do not apply to any suits, actions or
proceedings in which the actual or alleged infringement results from the use of
such material or item in combination with other articles or material or in the
practice of any process other than a process for which such item has been
expressly manufactured by CFC. 

8.                 Governing
Law . 

This Agreement shall be governed
by and construed and enforced in accordance with the internal laws of the State
of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.  

9.                 Notices . 

Every notice, request, demand,
direction or other communication (each, a  Notice ) required or permitted to be
given pursuant to this Agreement will be deemed to be well and sufficiently
given if in writing and delivered by hand (or recognized overnight courier
service addressed as follows:  

(a)              if to ABNH
at: 

399 Executive Boulevard  

  Elmsford, N.Y. 10523  

  Attention: President  

  Facsimile: 914-592-3248  

with a copy to:  

  Fulbright   Jaworski
L.L.P.  

  Attn: Paul Jacobs, Esq.  

  666 Fifth Avenue  

  New York, NY 10103-3198  

  Facsimile: 212-318-3400  

5  

(b)              if to CFC
at: 

500 State Street  

  Chicago Heights, IL 60411  

  Attention:  Dennis Lakomy, Chief Financial Officer  

  Facsimile:  708-758-3976  

with a copy to:  

  Carl Neumann  

  McBride Baker   Cole  

  1 Mid America Plaza  

  Suite #1000  

  Oakbrook Terace, IL  60181-4710  

  Facsimile: 630-954-2112  

10.               Publicity . 

Except as may be required by law
or applicable governmental regulatory authorities, neither Party will, without
the prior written consent of the other Party make any news release or public
announcement regarding this Agreement. Either party may disclose the existence
of this Agreement only in order to fulfill the intent of the Agreement to any
other party, but not the contents of the Agreement or any purchase order
without the consent of the other party or as required by law. An example of a
permitted disclosure in order to fulfill the intent of the Agreement is for
ABNH to inform its customers that CFC is supplying HoloMag foils pursuant to
this Agreement. If a customer of ABNH requests information from CFC or the
opportunity to visit CFC s manufacturing facilities, CFC will cooperate to
support such reasonable requests.  

11.               Assignments . 

Neither Party may assign any
rights or obligations under this Agreement or any purchase order (including the
right to receive monies due hereunder) without the prior written consent of the
other Party, and any purported assignment without such consent will be void. No
assignment will relieve the assigning Party from its obligations under this
agreement or any purchase order.  

12.               Waiver
and Amendment . 

This Agreement may not be
amended or modified, and no provision hereof may be waived without the written
consent of the parties affected by such amendment. If either Party should waive
any breach of any provisions of this Agreement, it shall not thereby be deemed
to have waived any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other
provisions of this Agreement.  

13.               Injunctive
Relief and other Remedies . 

The parties acknowledge that
each Party s obligations under this Agreement are of a special and unique
character for which monetary damages for breach would be inadequate and
therefore each Party agrees that the other Party shall be entitled to
injunctive and other equitable relief in the event of a breach or threatened
breach in addition to any and all rights and remedies available at law or
otherwise.  

6  

14.               Further
Assurances . 

The Parties will execute such
further assurances and other documents and instruments and do such further and
other things as may be necessary to implement and carry out the intent of this
Agreement.  

15.               Severability . 

If any provision of this
Agreement shall be adjudicated invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or
unenforceability shall not in any manner affect or render invalid or
unenforceable any other provision of this Agreement and such adjudication shall
apply only in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made,
and this Agreement shall be carried out as if any such invalid or unenforceable
provision were not contained herein;  provided,    however,  to the
extent any provision hereof is deemed unenforceable by virtue of its scope in
terms of area or length of time, but may be enforceable with limitation
thereon, the Parties agree that the same shall nevertheless be enforceable to
the fullest extent permissible under the laws and public policies applied in
such jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought.  

16.               Entire
Agreement . 

This Agreement constitutes the
entire agreement between the Parties and supersedes all previous expectations,
understandings, communications, representations and agreements whether verbal
or written between the Parties concerning the development and supply of Holomag
Foils.  

17.               Arbitration . 

Any
and all claims, disputes or controversies arising under, out of, or in
connection with this Agreement that have not been resolved by good faith
negotiations between the Parties shall be resolved by final and binding
arbitration under the rules of the American Arbitration Association or other
organization acceptable to the Parties (the  AAA ) then obtaining, in
proceedings to be held in New York City. In any and all instances in which a
claim, dispute or controversy is to be arbitrated pursuant to this Section,
there shall be one arbitrator. Such arbitrator shall be designated by the AAA;  provided 
that neither ABNH nor CFC shall have objection to such arbitrator and that, if
no single arbitrator has been designated by the AAA to which neither ABNH nor
CFC has an objection, a panel consisting of three arbitrators shall be
selected, to include one arbitrator to be designated by each of ABNH and CFC
and one arbitrator to be designated by the AAA. The costs of arbitration shall
be divided equally between ABNH and CFC. Such arbitrator shall have no power to
add to, subtract from or modify any of the terms or conditions of this
Agreement, and shall provide a written opinion explaining the reasons for any
award rendered in any arbitration pursuant to this Section. Any award so
rendered may be   

7  

enforced in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction, which shall include any state or federal court situated in New
York, New York, U.S.A.  

[Signature
page follows]   

8  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned
have hereby executed this Agreement as of the date first set forth above.  

AMERICAN BANK NOTE HOLOGRAPHICS, INC.  

By:  

/s/ Kenneth H. Traub  

Name:  

Kenneth H. Traub  

Title:  

President and CEO  

CFC INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

By:  

/s/ Richard L. Garthwaite  

Name:   

Richard L. Garthwaite  

Title:  

President  

9  

SCHEDULE A    

SPECIFICATIONS FOR HOLOMAG FOILS   

[*]  

*Confidential  

10  

SCHEDULE B    

PRICE SCHEDULE I    

HOLOMAG TM NETIC FOILS    

Minimum run is [*] or [*]. A
standard roll is considered [*] which equals a [*] roll minimum or any
combination of roll width and length which would effectively use the [*] would
be considered a minimum run.  

PRICE    

CFC
INTERNATIONAL - HOLOMAG TM  PRICING   

   HICO  
SILVER   

VOLUME   

ROLL SIZE   

PRICE/TI   

PRICE/ROLL   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

CFC
INTERNATIONAL   HOLOMAG TM  PRICING   

   HICO  
GOLD   

VOLUME   

ROLL SIZE   

PRICE/TI   

PRICE/ROLL   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

CFC
INTERNATIONAL   HOLOMAG TM  PRICING   

   LOCO  
SILVER   

VOLUME   

ROLL SIZE   

PRICE/TI   

PRICE/ROLL   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

CFC
INTERNATIONAL - HOLOMAG TM  PRICING   

   LOCO  
GOLD   

VOLUME   

ROLL SIZE   

PRICE/TI   

PRICE/ROLL   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

*Confidential  

11  

SCHEDULE B   

PRICE SCHEDULE
I 
HOLOMAG TM NETIC FOILS    

Minimum run is [*] or [*]  

CFC
INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
 HOLOMAG TM  PRICING    

HICO-SILVER   

Volume   

Roll Size   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

Roll Size   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

HICO-GOLD*   

Volume   

Roll Size   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

Roll Size   

Price/TI   

Price/Rolls   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

LOCO-SILVER   

Volume   

Roll Size   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

Roll Size   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

LOCO  
GOLD*   

Volume   

Roll Size   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

Roll Size   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

*Confidential  

12  

</EX-10.31>

<EX-10.32>
 3
 a06-2153_1ex10d32.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.32   

CERTAIN PORTIONS OF THIS EXHIBIT
HAVE BEEN AFFORDED CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT UNDER RULE 24b-2 OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934. THE OMITTED MATERIALS HAVE BEEN FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION.   

AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO 
DEVELOPMENT, SUPPLY AND SUBCONTRACTING AGREEMENT   

This Amendment No. 1 to the
Development, Supply and Subcontracting Agreement (the  Agreement ), dated as of
May 30, 2001, by and between American Bank Note Holographics, Inc., a Delaware
corporation ( ABNH ), with its principal place of business at 2 Applegate
Drive, Robbinsville, NJ  08691, and CFC
International, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( CFC ), with its principal place
of business at 500 State Street, Chicago Heights, IL  60411, is entered into as of January 4, 2006.
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning
ascribed to such terms in the Agreement.  

WHEREAS, ABNH and CFC are
parties to the Agreement, under which ABNH currently purchases from CFC, and
CFC sells to ABNH, the HoloMag Foils as described in Schedule A of the
Agreement;  

WHEREAS, ABNH has created
custom HoloMag images for, and has entered into supply agreements with [*], [*],
[*] and [*] and is negotiating additional potential supply agreements with other
customers; and  

WHEREAS, ABNH and CFC desire
to amend certain terms of the Agreement.  

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties
covenant and agree as follows:  

1.0                                    Section
1 of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 

(i)                                        The
sentence under Section 1(b) that reads  ABNH agrees to remit payment to CFC
within 30 days from receipt of a valid invoice.  shall be labeled and referred
to as Section 1(c). 

(ii)                                     Section
1(d) shall be deleted and replaced with the following new Section 1(d):  ABNH
agrees to purchase * of its HoloMag Foil from CFC subject to the
satisfaction of the following conditions by CFC on an ongoing basis: (i) CFC is
in compliance with all of its obligations under this Agreement, including but
not limited to, the procedures and specifications set forth in the attached
Amended Schedule A, (ii) the quality of the HoloMag Foil products produced by
CFC is comparable in all material respects to any alternative or competing
products available in the market, and (iii) CFC complies with the reasonable
requests of ABNH or its customers pertaining to modifications in product
features, quality, service, security or delivery as long as such requests are
consistent with industry  

*  Confidential  

practice. In the
event that ABNH notifies CFC in writing than CFC is not in compliance with the
conditions and requirements set forth in the foregoing sentence, CFC shall have
a period of 45 days from the date of such notice to cure such non-compliance. If
such non-compliance is not cured within such 45-day period, ABNH shall have the
right, but not the obligation to procure or manufacture the HoloMag Foils or
any component thereof from any other source.   

2.0                                    Section
2 of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 

(i)                                        The
second paragraph of paragraph (a) thereof shall be labeled and referred to as
Section 2(b). In the new 2(b), insert on line five after the word  [*]  the
following:  or any security hologram, holographic magnetic stripe or other
security device that competes with any product currently supplied by ABNH to
the aforementioned accounts, including but not limited to HoloMag. [*].  

(ii)                                     The
following new sentence shall be added at the end of Section 2(b):   To the extent there is an inconsistency
between any purchase orders submitted by ABNH and the terms of this Agreement,
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. CFC represents that its maximum
manufacturing capabilities are [*]. ABNH will not order more than CFC s maximum
capabilities in any month unless the parties mutually agree to an increased
amount.  

3.0                                    Section
3 of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 

Section 3(a) is hereby deleted, and replaced by the
following:  Effective on January 4, 2006 ( Amendment No. 1 Effective Date ),
the Agreement shall renewed for a period of five (5) years (the  Term ), and
shall automatically renew for successive terms of five (5) years unless either
party provides the other Party not less than six (6) months notice of
non-renewal thereof prior to the end of the then current Term.   

4.0                                    Section
9 is hereby amended by deleting paragraphs (a) and (b) and replacing it with
the following: 

(a)                                     if
to ABNH at: 

American Bank
Note Holographics, Inc. 
2 Applegate Drive 
Robbinsville, NJ  08691 
Attention:  Chief Executive Officer 
Telephone:  (609) 632-0800 
Facsimile:  (609) 632-0850  

* Confidential  

with a copy to:  

Fulbright  
Jaworski L.L.P. 
666 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY  10103-3198 
Attention:  Paul Jacobs, Esq. 
Facsimile:  (212) 318-3400  

(b)                                    if
to CFC at: 

500 State
Street 
Chicago Heights, IL  60411 
Attention:  Dennis Lakomy, Chief
Financial Officer 
Facsimile:  (708) 758-3976  

with a copy to:  

Holland  
Knight LLP 
One Mid America Plaza, Suite 1000 
Oakbrook Terrace, IL  60181-4710 
Attn:  Carl Neumann, Esq. 
Facsimile:  (630) 954-2112  

5.0                                    A
new Section 18 is hereby added as follows: 

18.            Schedule B Price Adjustments .  

[*]  

All
measurements of the Index will take place on the last published data for the
year end. Any price adjustments will be retroactive to January 1 of the year
following the year applicable to the Annual Index Change.  

6.0                                    A
new Section 19 is hereby added as follows: 

19.            ABNH HoloMag facility   

CFC agrees that
ABNH may build or operate its own HoloMag production facility. After ABNH
commences operations of its facility, ABNH will be entitled to produce its own
HoloMag Foil requirements. After ABNH commences operations of its facility,
ABNH will purchase at least 15% of its total finished HoloMag Foil requirements
from CFC and will not purchase such requirements from a third party, subject to
the satisfaction of the following conditions by CFC on an ongoing basis: (i)
CFC is in compliance with all of its obligations under this Agreement including
but not limited to the procedures and specifications set forth in the attached
Amended Schedule A, (ii) the quality of the HoloMag product, or  

*Confidential  

ingredients as
applicable, produced by CFC is comparable in all material respects to any
alternative or competing products available in the market, and (iii) CFC complies
with reasonable requests of ABNH or its customers pertaining to modifications
in product features, quality, service, security or delivery as long as such
requests are consistent with industry practice. Subject to the foregoing
conditions, ABNH also intends to purchase other ingredients or materials from
CFC as required in ABNH s sole discretion. The parties understand that ABNH
does not currently intend to solicit assistance from CFC in the design or
operation of ABNH s HoloMag facility, but in the event that ABNH requests such
assistance, the parties will negotiate in good faith the terms of an agreement
for such assistance.  

7.0                                    A
new Section 20 is hereby added as follows: 

20.            Product Changes   

If ABNH
requires a change in the product features of specifications that materially
changes the product from what is contemplated under Amended Schedule A, CFC and
ABNH will use their best efforts to cooperate on the required changes. If such
changes in the features or specifications result in an increase in cost to CFC,
then CFC and ABNH will negotiate in good faith an increase in price, which
shall reflect the increase in cost to CFC plus a reasonable margin.  

8.0                                    A
new Section 21 is hereby added as follows: 

21.            Insurance   

CFC shall
procure the following insurance coverage at its own expense with respect to the
manufacture of HoloMag. Such insurance shall be issued by financially
responsible and property licensed insurance carriers rated at least A VIII by
Best s Rating Guide (or otherwise acceptable to ABNH and its customers) and
with minimum limits as set forth below. Such insurance shall be maintained in
full force and effect for the duration of this Agreement and my renewals
thereof:  

WORKERS 
COMPENSATION:  Statutory Workers
Compensation as required by applicable law.  

EMPLOYER S
LIABILITY with a minimum limit of $1,000,000.  

COMMERCIAL
GENERAL LIABILITY INSURANCE:  including
PRODUCTS, COMPLETED OPERATIONS including CONTRACTUAL LIABILITY INSURANCE with
the following minimum limits for Bodily Injury and Property Damage on an
Occurrence basis: $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 annual aggregate.  

COMMERCIAL
AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE including owned, leased, hired or non-owned autos subject
to minimum limits of $1,000,000 for bodily injury and physical damage.  

COMMERCIAL
EXCESS/UMBRELLA LIABILITY INSURANCE subject to minimum limits of $5,000,000 for
bodily injury and physical damage.  

CRIME/FIDELITY
BOND including employee dishonesty, robbery, fraud, theft, forgery, alteration,
mysterious disappearance and destruction. The minimum limit shall be $1,000,000
per loss.  

PROFESSIONAL
LIABILITY for negligent acts, errors or omissions in connection with the
services provided under this agreement with a minimum limit of $1,000,000 per
occurrence.  

If any of the
above insurance is written on a claims-made basis, then CTC shall maintain such
insurance for five (5) years after the termination of this Agreement.  

Without
limiting CFC s indemnification duties as outlined herein. ABNH and its
designated customers shall be named as an additional insured under the
Commercial General Liability, Commercial Automobile Liability and Commercial
Excess/Umbrella Liability listed above for any claims and losses arising out
of, allegedly arising out of or in any way connected to CFC s manufacture of
HoloMag under this Amended Agreement. The insurers shall agree that CFC s
insurance is primary and any insurance maintained by ABNH or its customers
shall be excess and non-contributing to CFC s insurance.  

Annually, CFC
shall furnish a certificate, satisfactory to ABNH from each insurance company
evidencing that the above insurance is in force in compliance with the terms of
this insurance section, stating policy numbers, dates and expiration and limits
of liability, and further providing than the insurance will not be canceled or
materially changed until the expiration of at least thirty (30) days after
written notice of such cancellation or change has been mailed to and received
by ABNH. Fulfillment of obligations to procure insurance shall not otherwise
relieve CFC of any liability hereunder or modify CFC s obligations to indemnify
ABNH. In the event the above insurance requirements are not met, ABNH, may at
its option, purchase such coverage at the expense of CFC.  

WAIVER OF
SUBROGATION:  CFC agrees to waive
subrogation against ABNH and its customers for any injuries to its employees
arising out of or in any way related to CFC s manufacture of HoloMag under this
Agreement or for damage or loss to CFC s personal property. Further, CFC agrees
that it shall ensure that the Workers  Compensation/Employer s Liability and
All Risk Replacement Cost (Property) insurers, providing the coverage required
above, agree to waive subrogation, in favor of ABNH and its customers, for any
claims arising out of or in any way connected to CFC s performance of the
manufacture   

of HoloMag
under this Agreement or property covered by CFC s property insurance.  

9.0                                    Schedule
A of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the attached Amended
Schedule A. 

10.0                              Schedule
B of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the attached Amended
Schedule B an B1. The prices set forth on Amended Schedule B and B1 shall take
effect retroactively to November 1, 2005. Since ABNH has been ordering product
based on the Schedule B prices then in effect, promptly after the execution of
this Agreement, CFC will bill ABNH for the difference in price between Schedule
B and Amended Schedule B for any products ordered by ABNH starting on November
1, 2005 through the effective date of this Agreement. 

11.0                              Governing
Law. This Amendment shall be governed by and construed and enforced in
accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York, without regard to
principles of conflicts of laws. 

12.0                              Counterparts.
This Amendment may be executed in counterparts and all counterparts shall
constitute one document, notwithstanding that all the parties may not be
signatories to the same counterpart. 

13.0                              Entire
Agreement. Except as expressly provided herein, the Agreement shall remain
unchanged and in full force and effect. Both parties are obligated to comply
with all of the terms of the Agreement (including without limitation as amended
by this Amendment) unless specifically waived or modified in writing. The
failure to enforce any specific term of the Agreement does not constitute a
waiver of a breach of the Agreement. [*]. 

[Signature page follows]   

* Confidential  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have hereby
executed this Amendment as of the date first set forth above.  

AMERICAN BANK NOTE
  HOLOGRAPHICS, INC.  

By:  

/s/ Kenneth H. Traub  

Name:  

Kenneth H. Traub  

Title:  

President and CEO  

CFC INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

By:  

/s/ Roger Hruby  

Name:   

Roger Hruby  

Title:  

Chairman  

AMENDED SCHEDULE A    

PROCEDURES
AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR CFC PRODUCTION OF HOLOMAG  FOILS   

In connection with the Development, Supply and
Subcontracting Agreement signed by American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. ( ABNH )
and CFC International, Inc. ( CFC ) (jointly, the  Parties ) on May 30, 2001,
as amended on January 4, 2006, the schedule below sets forth the material
production procedures, specifications and security procedures for CFC to follow
in the manufacture of the HoloMag  Foils for ABNH s requirements.  

1.              Production Procedures   

The sequence of steps for the manufacture of the
HoloMag  Foils is set forth below:  

(a)                                     [*] 

(b)                                    [*] 

(c)                                     [*] 

(d)                                    [*] 

(e)                                     [*] 

(f)                                       [*] 

(g)                                    [*] 

(h)                                    [*] 

(i)                                        [*] 

(j)                                        [*] 

2.              Product Specifications   

The HoloMag  Foils shall have the following
specifications:  

(a)                                     [*] 

(i)                                        [*] 

(ii)                                     [*] 

(b)                                    [*] 

* Confidential  

(i)                                        [*] 

(ii)                                     [*] 

(iii)                                  [*] 

(iv)                                 [*] 

(c)                                     [*] 

(i)                                        [*] 

(ii)                                     [*] 

(iii)                                  [*] 

(d)                                    [*] 

(i)                                        [*] 

(ii)                                     [*] 

(iii)                                  [*] 

(iv)                                 [*] 

(v)                                    [*] 

(vi)                                 [*] 

3.              Security Procedures   

(a)                                     CFC
will comply with all of the procedures set forth below as well as the requests
of ABNH s customers as long as those requests are consistent with the normal
and customary security requirements for such customers  secure vendors and are
consistent with all Federal, State and local requirements.[*]: 

(i)                                        [*] 

(ii)                                     ABNH
and its customers will conduct periodic security inspections of CFC s
facilities to confirm that CFC s facility complies with ABNH security
requirements as set forth herein (the  Security Inspection ). 

(iii)                                  [*] 

* Confidential  

2  

(iv)                                 [*] 

(v)                                    All
corrective actions must be made by CFC prior to running any further security
jobs for ABNH. 

(b)                                    [*] 

[*]:  

(i)                                        [*] 

(ii)                                      

(iii)                                  [*] 

(iv)          [*]  

(c)                                     Physical
Security Procedures 

(i)                                        High
Security Areas. Any area of CFC s facility, which temporarily or permanently
stores any HoloMag  Foils or in which work on any HoloMag Foils may be
performed, is a high security area ( CFC High Security Area ). In every CFC
High Security Area, CFC must maintain a level of physical security that
includes: 

[*]  

(ii)                                     [*] 

(iii)                                  [*] 

(iv)          [*]  

(v)           [*]  

(vi)          [*]  

(d)                                    Obligations
Following Initial Security Certification 

(i)                                        CFC
must be in compliance with industry standards at all times and must notify ABNH
prior to redefining or making important changes to the security procedures or
security devices that were in place at the most recent security inspection. 

* Confidential  

[Signature page follows]   

3   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have hereby
executed this Agreement as the date first set forth above.  

AMERICAN BANK NOTE HOLOGRAPHICS, INC.   

By:   

/s/ Kenneth H. Traub   

Name: Kenneth H. Traub   

Title:   President and CEO   

CFC INTERNATIONAL, INC.   

By:   

/s/ Gregory Jehlik   

Name: Gregory Jehlik   

Title:   President
  and CEO   

FIGURE A-1   

DIAGRAM   

[*]  

* Confidential  

Amended Schedule B   

HOLOMAG 
PRICING    [*]   
PRICES BASED ON AGGREGATE OF P/O S ISSUED AT THE SAME TIME  

HICO - SILVER   

1     / 2     

1     / 3     

Volume   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

HICO - TINTED (GOLD OR OTHER)   

1     / 2     

1     / 3     

Volume   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

LOCO - SILVER   

1     / 2     

1     / 3     

Volume   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

LOCO - TINTED (GOLD OR OTHER)   

1     / 2     

1     / 3     

Volume   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

*Confidential  

Amended Schedule B1   

HOLOMAG 
PRICING    [*]  
PRICES BASED ON AGGREGATE OF P/O S ISSUED AT THE SAME TIME  

HICO   SILVER   

1     / 2     

1     / 3     

Volume   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

HICO - TINTED (GOLD OR OTHER)   

1     / 2     

1     / 3     

Volume   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

LOCO - SILVER   

1     / 2     

1     / 3     

Volume   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

LOCO - (GOLD OR OTHER)   

1     / 2     

1     / 3     

Volume   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

Price/TI   

Price/Roll   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

*Confidential  

ABNH may implement the arrangement in this Amended
Schedule B1 at any time for any proportion of its requirements and will notify
CFC accordingly.  

ABNH PART #   

CFC PART #   

DESCRIPTION   

COERCIVITY   

WIDTH   

TRACK   

LCP   

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

[*]  

*Confidential  

</EX-10.32>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 a06-2153_1ex23d1.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

Exhibit
23.1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM  

We hereby consent to the
incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8, No.
333-85300 pertaining to the American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. 2000 Stock
Incentive Plan, as Amended, the Registration Statement on Form S-8, No.
333-61602 pertaining to the American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. 1998 Stock
Incentive Plan, as Amended, the American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. 2000
Stock Incentive Plan of American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. and the
Registration Statement Form S-8, No. 333-129686 pertaining to the American Bank
Note Holographics, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan of our report dated March 31,
2006 relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedules,
which appears in this Form 10-K.  

/s/
  PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP    

Florham
Park, New Jersey  

  March
31, 2006  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 5
 a06-2153_1ex23d2.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

Exhibit 23.2   

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm              We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8, No. 333-85300 pertaining to the American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended, the Registration Statement on Form S-8, No. 333-61602 pertaining to the American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended, the American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan of American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. and the Registration Statement Form S-8, No. 333-1296
86 pertaining to the American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan of our report dated March 10, 2005, with respect to the balance sheet of American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. as of December 31, 2004 and the related statements of operations, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2004 and the information for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2004 included in the related financial statement schedule of American Bank Note Holographics, Inc., included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2005.            

/s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP     

New York, New York        March 31, 2006    

</EX-23.2>

<EX-24.1>
 6
 a06-2153_1ex24d1.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Exhibit
24.1   

POWER
OF ATTORNEY   

The undersigned hereby appoints
Kenneth H. Traub and Mark J. Bonney, and each of them, any of whom may act
without the joinder of the other, as his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and
agent, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign American Bank Note
Holographics, Inc. s Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto and to file
the same, with all exhibits thereto, and all other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents full power and authority to do and perform each
and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all
intents and purposes as he might or would do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them of their
or his substitute and substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.  

Subscribed and sworn to before me  

  this 28 th  day of March, 2006  

/s/ Basmatie Motee  

Notary Public  

</EX-24.1>

<EX-24.2>
 7
 a06-2153_1ex24d2.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Exhibit
24.2   

POWER
OF ATTORNEY   

The undersigned hereby appoints
Kenneth H. Traub and Mark J. Bonney, and each of them, any of whom may act
without the joinder of the other, as his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and
agent, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign American Bank Note
Holographics, Inc. s Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto and to file
the same, with all exhibits thereto, and all other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents full power and authority to do and perform each
and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all
intents and purposes as he might or would do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them of their
or his substitute and substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.  

Subscribed and sworn to before me  

  this 25 th  day of March, 2006  

/s/ Jennifer L. Shann  

Notary Public  

</EX-24.2>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 a06-2153_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
31.1   

CERTIFICATION   

   PURSUANT
TO EXCHANGE ACT RULES 13A-14(a) AND 15D-14(a),   

   AS
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, Kenneth H.
Traub, certify that:  

(1)           I have reviewed this annual report on
Form 10-K of American Bank Note Holographics, Inc.;  

(2)           Based on my knowledge, this report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report;  

(3)           Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;  

(4)           The registrant s other certifying
officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:  

a.             Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

b.             Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

c.             Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  

(5)           The registrant s other certifying
officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions):  

a.             All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

b.             Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.  

Date:  

March 31, 2006  

/s/ Kenneth H. Traub  

Kenneth H. Traub  

President and
  Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 a06-2153_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2   

CERTIFICATION   

   PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULES 13A-14(a) AND
15D-14(a),   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, Mark J. Bonney, certify that:  

(1)                                     I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of American Bank Note
Holographics, Inc.; 

(2)                                     Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

(3)                                     Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

(4)                                     The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a.                                          Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b.                                         Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

c.                                          Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

(5)                                     The
registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a.                                          All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b.                                         Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:  

March 31, 2006  

/s/ Mark J. Bonney  

Mark J. Bonney  

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  
  Chief 
  Accounting Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 a06-2153_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
32.1   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

The
undersigned hereby certifies, in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer of
American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. (the  Company ), that the Annual Report
of the Company on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2005, as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report )
fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition of the Company at
the end of the period covered by the Report and the results of operations of
the Company for the period covered by the Report.  

By:   

/s/ Kenneth H.
  Traub  

Kenneth H. Traub  

President and
  Chief Executive Officer  

Date:  March 31, 2006  

A signed original of this
written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required
by Section 906, has been provided to American Bank Note
Holographics, Inc. and will be retained by American Bank Note
Holographics, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 11
 a06-2153_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
32.2   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

The
undersigned hereby certifies, in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer of
American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. (the  Company ), that the Annual Report
of the Company on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2005, as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report )
fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition of the Company at
the end of the period covered by the Report and the results of operations of
the Company for the period covered by the Report.  

By:   

/s/ Mark J.
  Bonney  

Mark J. Bonney  

Executive Vice
  President, Chief Financial Officer and  

Chief Accounting
  Officer  

Date:  March 31, 2006  

A signed original of this
written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears
in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required
by Section 906, has been provided to American Bank Note Holographics, Inc.
and will be retained by American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. and
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

