<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_946356_0000892569-06-000451_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>906535</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>269553</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>392781</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>64</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000892569-06-000451.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331170942
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000892569-06-000451
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			OAKLEY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000946356
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	OPHTHALMIC GOODS [3851]
		IRS NUMBER:				953194947
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13848
		FILM NUMBER:		06729920

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE ICON
		CITY:			FOOTHILL RANCH
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92610
		BUSINESS PHONE:		949-951-0991

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE ICON
		CITY:			FOOTHILL RANCH
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92610

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 TQ/AX8MSWWpxeyQecL/BZNC3Q16J0v8hzKgv3jzt0wrc2FV+/a5+mgyjNRRLRNqL
 tdb3khls6USTLtqi9xwPog==

 0000892569-06-000451.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a18977e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, DC 20549 

FORM 10-K 

For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 

  or 

For
the transition period from                           to                        

Commission File Number: 1-13848 

Oakley,
Inc. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Washington 

95-3194947  

(State or other jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer 
Identification No.) 

One Icon, Foothill Ranch, California 

92610  

(Address of principal executive offices);

(ZIP Code) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 
 (949) 951-0991 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered  

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share

New York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer    

Accelerated filer    

Non-accelerated filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act.) Yes     No    

Aggregate market value of the Registrants common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant
computed by reference to the closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30,
2005: $423,332,472

Number of shares of common stock, $0.01 par value, outstanding as of the close of business on March
28, 2006: 69,001,946 shares

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
Portions of the proxy statement for the registrant s 2006 Annual Shareholders Meeting 
are incorporated by reference into Part III herein

Oakley, Inc.  

  TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PART I 

1 

Item 1.  

Business  

1 

Item 1a.  

Risk Factors  

12 

Item 1b.  

Unresolved Staff Comments  

16 

Item 2.  

Properties  

17 

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings  

17 

Item 4.  

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

17 

PART II  

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters  
  and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

18 

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data  

20 

Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition   
  and Results of Operations  

21 

Item 7a.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

41 

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

43 

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting   
  and Financial Disclosure  

78 

Item 9a.  

Controls and Procedures  

78 

PART III  

Item 10.  

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant  

80 

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation  

80 

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  
  and Related Shareholder Matters   

80 

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  

80 

Item 14.  

Principal Accountant Fees and Services  

80 

PART IV  

Item 15.  

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

81 

EXHIBIT 10.41    
     EXHIBIT 10.42    
     EXHIBIT 21.1    
     EXHIBIT 23.1    
     EXHIBIT 31.1    
     EXHIBIT 31.2    
     EXHIBIT 32.1    

Table of Contents   

Part I  

Item 1.     Business  

General 

Oakley, Inc. is a Washington corporation that commenced operations in 1977 and began to sell
sunglasses in 1984. As used in this report, the terms  we ,  us ,  Oakley  and the  Company  refer
to Oakley, Inc. and its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates, unless the context indicates
otherwise. Our Internet address is www.oakley.com. On our investor relations website, located at
investor.oakley.com, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC): our
annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and
any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). All such filings on our investor
relations website are free of charge. Also available on our investor relations website are the
charters of the committees of our board of directors, as well as our corporate governance
guidelines, code of business conduct and code of ethics for chief executive and chief financial
officers. Copies of any of these documents will be provided in print to any shareholder who
submits a request in writing to Corporate Secretary, Oakley, Inc., One Icon, Foothill Ranch,
California, 92610. 

Our principal business activity is the design, development, manufacture, distribution and worldwide
marketing of innovative consumer products including high-performance eyewear (sunglasses,
prescription eyewear, goggles and electronically enabled eyewear), apparel, footwear, watches and
accessories. We believe a principal strength of the Company is our ability to develop products
that demonstrate superior performance and aesthetics through proprietary technology, manufacturing
processes and styling. We hold 545 patents and 1,106 trademarks worldwide that protect our designs
and innovations. We sell our products to retail accounts, through Oakley-owned O
Stores     , Vaults , through more than 100 mall-based sunglass specialty stores in the
U.S., and through a mix of independent distributors and licensees in more than 100 countries. We
manufacture and assemble the majority of our eyewear products at our manufacturing facility located
at our headquarters in Foothill Ranch, California. We utilize third-party manufacturers located in
the United States and abroad to produce our internally designed apparel, electronically enabled
eyewear products, footwear, watches, certain goggles and accessories.

Our historical success is attributable, in part, to the introduction of products that are perceived
to represent an improvement in performance over products available in the market and that also
contain innovative leading-edge styling. We believe our future success will depend, in part, upon
our continued ability to develop and introduce such innovative products, although there can be no
assurance of our ability to do so. The consumer products industry is highly competitive and is
subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and preferences, affecting companies that misjudge
such preferences. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands and manufacturers
of high-performance eyewear, apparel, footwear, watches and accessories, some of which have greater
financial and marketing resources than we do. We believe that in order to retain and grow market
share, we must continue to be competitive in the areas of quality, technology, method of
distribution, style, brand image, intellectual property protection and customer service although
there can be no assurance of our ability to do so.

1

Table of Contents   

Recent Developments 

On February 8, 2006, the Company announced the acquisition of privately held Oliver Peoples,
Inc., which designs, produces and sells luxury eyewear. Through this acquisition, Oakley
acquired Oliver Peoples  three eyewear brands: Oliver Peoples     , Mosley
Tribes     , and the licensed Paul Smith      eyewear brand. The acquisition s
aggregate purchase price of up to $55.7 million is subject to post closing adjustments and includes
the assumption of approximately $5.0 million of debt and up to $4.0 million in contingent future
incentive payments.

On March 14, 2006, the Company announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to purchase all
of the outstanding stock of the privately held Optical Shop of Aspen and its parent company  OSA
Holding, Inc.  The Optical Shop of Aspen operates 14 luxury optical retail locations. The Company
expects to close this transaction before June 30, 2006.

Products and Technology 

Oakley s performance sunglasses, goggles, apparel and footwear are designed for men and women
primarily for use during or in conjunction with a variety of sports, including: baseball, cycling,
football, golf, hiking, hockey, motor sports, running, skiing, snowboarding, surfing, and other
athletic, recreational and outdoor activities. A large percentage of our performance products are
also worn for casual or leisure purposes. We also design some of our sunglasses, prescription
eyewear, apparel, accessories, footwear and watches specifically for casual lifestyle wear. With
all of our products, we place considerable emphasis on innovative materials and technology,
individualistic design and high quality construction.

Optics Products 

Oakley branded optics products, including sunglasses, goggles, prescription eyewear and
electronically enabled eyewear, feature our patented  High Definition Optics        
( HDO         )  which we believe offer consumers the best available optical clarity based on
tests that measure clarity, refractive power and prism and standardized test criteria established
specifically for eyewear by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and the American
Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM).

Of our 545 patents, some of our most important are those that guard our proprietary innovations in
dual-spherical lens technology and the associated optical advances, as well as innovations in frame
design and functionality. The proprietary technologies employed in lens cutting, etching and
coatings, as well as our significant investment in specialized equipment, are matched with
exclusive formulations of production materials to achieve the superior optical quality, safety and
performance of Oakley eyewear.

HDO         encompasses a full range of Oakley innovations which we believe provides the best
optical performance available. Various combinations of our patented technologies, materials and
processes are included in our  HDO         products including:

XYZ
Optics          A lens technology involving precise geometric orientation that
provides optical correction on three axes by allowing light to be received over essentially
the full range of vision and minimizing distortion caused by disparate refraction along that
range. This technology allows for wrapped, raked-back lens configurations that enhance
peripheral vision and protection against sun, wind and side impact.

2

Table of Contents   

Polaric Ellipsoid          A lens geometry technology we developed specifically for
toroidal lenses (that use different measurements for top-to-bottom vs. side-to-side
curvature). This technology allows for single-lens sports shields that provide enhanced
coverage and protection while reducing distortion at all angles of vision. Our patents
related to this proprietary geometry expired in 2004, but we do not believe their expiration
has had a material impact on our business.

Plutonite          A proprietary lens material that inherently blocks out the damaging
rays of ultraviolet (UV) including 100% of all UVA, UVB, UVC and harmful blue light up to
400nm and is used to produce lenses of extremely high durability, low weight, with superior
impact protection and exceptional optical clarity.

Iridium          A metallic oxide that improves contrast, thereby enhancing perception
of detail. We offer consumers a full spectrum of  Iridium       lens coatings that
allows them to customize the light transmission characteristics of their lenses for
different light conditions.

Polarized Lenses     To maintain precision optics, we use a proprietary lens technology that
molecularly fuses a polarized filter between thin  Plutonite       surfaces. We then
injection mold liquid  Plutonite       onto the filter to create a true polarized lens
with patented  XYZ Optics       and superior optical clarity.

We benchmark the performance of our  HDO         products against ANSI optical performance
standards. We believe the performance of our  HDO         products is unsurpassed in these
tests:

Clarity Test     This test measures how distinct and sharp an image appears when viewed
through a lens. Images blur as distance increases. Without  HDO        , distortion
occurs at a much shorter viewing distance.  HDO         maintains clarity at greater
viewing distances, thanks to precision technologies and materials that surpass all
conventional eyewear.

Refractive Power Test     This test measures how much lenses unnecessarily magnify images
resulting in unwanted visual distortion.  HDO         offers the highest possible level
of optical clarity virtually eliminating the distortion caused by magnification.

Prism Test     This test measures how lenses bend light and make objects appear shifted from
their true position.  HDO         technology virtually eliminates light bending, so
objects appear at their true position and each eye sees the same image resulting in reduced
eye fatigue.

We also apply considerable design and engineering efforts toward the design and development of
innovative frames to enhance performance, durability, styling, fit and comfort. Our frames are
constructed of a variety of lightweight metal alloys, lightweight synthetics or proprietary metal
blends produced with a unique metallurgical process.

Oakley is the exclusive worldwide licensee of Fox Racing Inc. (Fox) for sunglasses and goggles. We
design, develop and manufacture these products in cooperation with Fox and are responsible for
worldwide marketing and distribution. These products are sold primarily to motorsports specialty
retail locations, sunglass specialty stores and through our own retail stores.

3

Table of Contents   

The Company also maintains a majority ownership interest in Dragon Optical, Inc. which designs,
develops, manufactures and distributes a line of sunglasses and goggles specifically targeted to
the surf and skate market. These products are sold primarily to surf specialty retail locations,
sunglass specialty stores and through our own retail stores.

In 2005, 2004 and 2003, sunglass sales accounted for approximately 48.6 percent, 50.6 percent and
54.7 percent of total gross sales, respectively.

Goggles and Shields   

We design, develop, manufacture and distribute a line of goggles for use by motocross, snow and
water sports enthusiasts. Our goggles feature Oakley s patented  HDO         providing
consumers with excellent optical clarity. Our goggles also feature scratch-resistant
 Plutonite       or Lexan lenses, conical frames and multi-layered face foams for added
comfort and durability. For 2005, 2004 and 2003, goggles sales represented approximately 6.1
percent, 6.3 percent and 6.4 percent of total gross sales, respectively.

We also design, manufacture and market optically correct protective hockey and football face
shields. Oakley branded hockey masks are distributed under an exclusive, worldwide distribution
agreement with Sport Maska, Inc. In addition, we license Oakley s patented technology to
Mission/Itech, which manufactures and sells an  ITech  branded hockey face shield and pays us a
per-unit royalty.

Prescription Frames and Lenses   

We design, manufacture, sell and distribute a growing line of ophthalmic frames as well as
prescription lenses which feature our patented  HDO        . Most of our high-wrap sunglass
frames can also be custom built with Oakley prescription lenses. We estimate our prescription
products are sold in approximately 10,000 retail stores around the world. In 2005, 2004 and 2003,
prescription eyewear represented approximately 7.2 percent, 7.7 percent and 7.5 percent of total
gross sales, respectively.

Electronically Enabled Eyewear   

We design and distribute a limited line of electronically enabled eyewear incorporating digital
music playback capability (MP3 files) and Bluetooth        wireless technology in integrated
designs. The Company s Bluetooth        enabled eyewear was developed in collaboration with
Motorola, Inc. (Motorola) and is distributed by Motorola for sale through retail locations of
leading cellular service providers. In addition, we sell our electronically enabled products at
our own retail stores and wholesale accounts. We launched our first electronically enabled eyewear
product in November 2004. In 2005 and 2004, electronic products accounted for approximately 5.4
percent and 3.2 percent of total gross sales, respectively.

Apparel, Footwear and Accessories Products 

Apparel and Accessories   

We design, develop and market an assortment of men s and women s apparel products, including styles
designed for golf, mountain bike, surf, snow and other athletic lifestyles. We outsource
production. We utilize core technologies to build technical apparel featuring innovations that
enhance durability, performance and comfort for use during professional competitions, and then
translate those innovations into products that are made available to the general public. In 2005,
2004 and 2003, sales of apparel and accessories accounted for approximately 15.8 percent, 15.3
percent and 13.4 percent of total gross sales, respectively.

4

Table of Contents   

Footwear   

We design and market innovative, performance-inspired footwear emphasizing superior performance,
fit, durability and functionality. We outsource production. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, footwear
represented approximately 4.6 percent, 5.2 percent and 6.4 percent of total gross sales,
respectively.

Watches   

We design, assemble and distribute a comprehensive line of premium watches with a design emphasis
on sculpture and styling. We outsource production. As with our other products, our watches employ
innovative blends of specialized materials to enhance performance, comfort and durability. Our
timepieces are sold to premium watch retailers and at our own retail stores. Watch sales
represented approximately 2 percent of total gross sales in each of 2005, 2004 and 2003.

Product Line and Brand Extensions 

We may introduce product line extensions and new product lines in the future and develop
innovations targeted to attract additional consumers to our global brands. To take advantage of
unique opportunities, we may, from time to time, manufacture private-label or other sunglasses for
other companies and market and sell sunglasses under brand names other than  Oakley.  We may also
consider acquisition opportunities that we believe will enhance or complement the Oakley brand or
add breadth to our product offerings. In addition, the company has licensed, and may further
license, its intellectual property rights to others in optical or other product categories.

Product Design and Development 

We believe that our research and development efforts are a key factor in our past and future
success. We develop and employ innovative technology, materials and processes in the design,
development and manufacturing of our products. To date, we have chosen to design our products
using primarily in-house staff because we believe this helps speed the concept-to-market timeline
and preserve brand image and authenticity, bringing greater respect and demand for our products
over the long term.

Throughout their development, all of our eyewear products undergo extensive testing against
standards established specifically for eyewear by ANSI and ASTM. These standards relate to product
safety and performance and provide quantitative measures of optical quality, UV protection, light
transmission and impact resistance. In addition, we perform a broad range of durability and
mechanical integrity tests on our eyewear coatings that include extremes of UV, heat, condensation
and humidity. Our apparel, accessories and footwear are tested against strict guidelines
established by the ASTM and other industry authorities to ensure quality, performance and
durability. All of our products are designed with the goal of meeting or exceeding their
respective industry standards for safety, performance and durability. Research and development
expenses during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $17.9 million, $16.0 million
and $14.3 million, respectively.

Manufacturing and Sourcing 

Our headquarters and principal manufacturing facility is located in Foothill Ranch, Orange
County, California, where we assemble and produce most of our eyewear products. We have a second
manufacturing facility located in Dayton, Nevada, where we produce all of our  X-Metal        
eyewear products. Fluctuations in manufacturing volumes in response to changing levels of demand
can have an effect on our gross profit margins.

5

Table of Contents   

At each of our manufacturing facilities, we own, operate and maintain most of the equipment used in
manufacturing our eyewear products. Much of the equipment used in the manufacture of Oakley
products has been specially designed and adapted for the processes we use. Components and
processes that are unlikely to add significant value are contracted to outside vendors.

Our state-of-the-art manufacturing practices allow for quick response to customer demand, offer
protection against piracy and enable us to produce products in accordance with our strict
quality-control standards. We believe our ability to build customized eyewear products to meet
individual consumer demand for unique combinations of frame, lens and lens coating and to deliver
those products in less than 48 hours is a distinct competitive advantage.

We operate three lens labs where we surface prescription lenses   one at our Foothill Ranch
headquarters facility, one in Ireland and one in Japan. These labs provide our prescription lenses
to the North and South American, European and Asian markets, respectively, enabling us to achieve
quick turnarounds, better quality control and higher optical standards.

We have built strong relationships with our major suppliers. With most suppliers, we maintain
agreements that prohibit disclosure of any of Oakley s proprietary information or technology to
third parties. Although we rely on outside suppliers for most of the specific molded components of
our glasses, goggles, watches and footwear, we retain substantial ownership of all molds used in
the production of the components. We believe that most components can be obtained from one or more
alternative sources within a relatively short period of time, if necessary or desired. In addition,
to further mitigate risk, we have developed an in-house injection molding capability for sunglass
frames.

We utilize third-party manufacturers to produce our internally designed apparel, technology enabled
eyewear, footwear, watches and certain goggles.

Product Distribution 

U.S. Wholesale   

Oakley products are distributed in the United States through a base of retail accounts that
fluctuates between approximately 8,500 and 10,000 accounts, comprising approximately 15,000 to
17,000 locations depending on seasonality of summer and winter products. Oakley s store base is
comprised of optical stores, sunglass retailers and specialty sports stores, including bike, surf,
snow, skate, golf and motorcycle stores, sporting goods stores and department stores.

Our sales organization is comprised of a combination of Oakley employees and independent sales
representatives. Relationships with our large international, national and regional accounts are
managed and serviced by Oakley employees. Independent sales representatives service the remaining
base of specialty stores that carry our various product categories.

In 2005, 2004 and 2003, wholesale net sales in the United States accounted for approximately 37.4
percent, 39.7 percent and 39.4 percent of total net sales, respectively.

6

Table of Contents   

Retail and Internet   

At December 31, 2005, we owned and operated 35 Oakley retail stores in the United States under the
O Store      name that offer a full range of Oakley products. These stores are designed and
merchandised to immerse consumers in the Oakley brand through innovative use of product
presentation, graphics, audio and visual elements. In addition to these full-priced retail venues,
we operated nine Oakley Vaults     , our outlet store concept, featuring discontinued and
excess seasonal Oakley branded merchandise in addition to newer products priced at full retail.
Our retail stores are located in some of the nation s most prestigious malls and average
approximately 2,500 square feet in size.

We also own Iacon, Inc., a sunglass specialty retail chain, which as of December 31, 2005, operated
105 stores in the U.S., making it the second largest sunglass specialty chain in North America.
These stores are located in premium malls throughout the United States, with a concentration
primarily in the Sun Belt regions. Oakley branded and licensed products, including Oakley, Dragon,
and Fox eyewear, accounted for approximately 31.2 percent, 32.3 percent and 31.3 percent of Iacon
net sales in 2005, 2004, and 2003 respectively. During 2005, we added 22 new locations and intend
to continue expanding these retail concepts in the United States.

Internationally, the Company owned and operated seven O Stores      and Oakley
Vaults      at December 31, 2005 with an additional 13 licensed retail locations throughout
the world.

Oakley Operated Retail Stores: 

In 2005, 2004 and 2003, sales through Oakley owned retail stores accounted for approximately 15.6
percent, 12.4 percent and 10.1 percent of total net sales, respectively.

We use the internet as a complementary channel to retail and international distribution, allowing
consumers to purchase Oakley products as efficiently as possible. Our corporate website
( www.oakley.com ) is fully e-commerce-capable and features a broad selection of Oakley products for
delivery to U.S., Canadian and Australian customers. We believe the site also serves to increase
consumer awareness of the Oakley brand, improve customer service and increase sales through retail
and e-commerce channels.

The Company has implemented SAP s order processing, manufacturing, inventory management,
distribution and finance modules in its key worldwide locations in the United States and most major
international offices. This has created an efficient, streamlined supply-chain process capable of
providing same-day or next-day shipping of in-stock orders.

7

Table of Contents   

International   

Oakley s products are currently sold in more than 100 countries outside the United States. We sell
our products through subsidiary offices in Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy,
Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, South Africa and the United Kingdom. Our employees at these
subsidiaries perform sales, marketing, advertising, customer service, shipping and accounting functions. In countries not serviced by our subsidiaries, Oakley products are sold
through independent distributors who possess local expertise. These distributors sell Oakley products either
exclusively or with complementary products and agree to comply with our marketing philosophy and
practices and receive extensive training regarding such philosophies and practices. For information
regarding the Company s operations by geographic region, see Note 13 in  Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements .

In 2005, 2004 and 2003, international net sales accounted for 47.0 percent, 47.9 percent and 50.5
percent of total net sales, respectively.

Seasonality 

Historically, our aggregate sales have been highest in the period from March to September, the
period during which sunglass purchase and use is typically highest in the Northern Hemisphere. As a
result, operating margins are typically higher in the second and third quarter and lower in the
first and fourth quarters, as fixed operating costs are spread over the differing levels of sales
volume. In anticipation of seasonal increases in demand, we typically build sunglass inventories in
the fourth quarter and first quarter when net sales have historically been lower.

Sales of our apparel, footwear and accessories products, which generate lower gross profits, are
generally lowest in the second quarter, causing second quarter gross profit to typically be the
highest of the year. Although our business generally follows this seasonal trend, product category
introductions, including apparel, accessories, footwear, watches, and our retail and international
expansion, have partially mitigated the impact of seasonality.

Principal Customers 

During 2005, 2004 and 2003, net sales to our largest ten customers, including international
distributors, accounted for approximately 19.1 percent, 18.9 percent and 17.6 percent of total net
sales, respectively. Net sales to our largest single customer, Luxottica Group S.p.A. (Luxottica)
and its affiliates, including Sunglass Hut, accounted for approximately 7.0 percent, 7.6 percent
and 8.9 percent of total net sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

In December 2004, we entered into a one-year commercial agreement with Luxottica that established
the commercial terms applicable for 2005 between the two companies. This agreement expired in
December 2005 and has not yet been replaced with a new commercial agreement. Since the expiration
of the 2005 agreement, we have continued to receive and fulfill orders from Luxottica under the
terms contained in the 2005 agreement. We believe we have a good relationship with Luxottica and
that Oakley products play an important role in Luxottica s multi-branded assortment throughout its
worldwide retail network as do Luxottica products within our own retail business. We are currently
engaged in discussions with Luxottica to establish a new commercial agreement, but there can be no
assurances as to the future of our relationship with Luxottica or the likelihood that a new
contract will be agreed upon.

8

Table of Contents   

Backlog 

At December 31, 2005, the Company had a backlog of $51.7 million, including backorders
(merchandise remaining unshipped beyond its scheduled shipping date) of $12.0 million, compared to
a backlog of $55.3 million, including backorders of $10.5 million, at December 31, 2004. The
backlog reflects a significant decline in spring apparel and footwear orders, partially offset by a
substantial increase in eyewear orders. Historically, we have generally shipped most eyewear
orders within one day of receipt, with longer lead times for our other pre-booked product
categories. Unshipped orders are cancellable by the customer without penalty. While we believe
our backlog represents firm orders, and we expect to fulfill substantially all of these orders in
the current fiscal year, we can not guarantee that order cancellations will not reduce the amount
we fulfill from the December 31, 2005 backlog.

Marketing and Promotions 

Oakley retains significant control over its advertising and sports marketing programs and
believes that its ability to deliver a consistent, well-recognized advertising message targeting
key consumer segments is important to the growth and maintenance of Oakley s brand strength. We
attribute much of our historic success to the use of less conventional marketing methods, including
sports marketing, grassroots sports events, targeted product allocations and in-store display aids.

We use sports marketing extensively to achieve exposure that results in strong brand recognition
and authenticity on a global level. We believe the exposure generated by athletes wearing our
products during competition and in other media appearances serves as a more powerful endorsement of
product performance and style than traditional commercial endorsements.

We also develop and execute integrated advertising campaigns targeting athletic, technical and
lifestyle publications, outdoor media, in-mall billboards and point-of-sale displays in all of our
key markets. In addition, during key seasonal selling periods, we execute direct marketing
programs to augment our advertising and sports marketing efforts. Our direct marketing programs
consist primarily of several brand catalogs mailed directly to consumers in key markets,
enhancements to our website and Internet tie-ins and public relations programs designed to secure
editorial exposure for new product inventions and technologies.

Intellectual Property 

We utilize trademarked logos, names and attributes on nearly all of our products and believe
that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a
market for our products, in identifying the Company and in distinguishing our products from
competitors  products. We consider the Oakley      trademark and our ellipse shaped logo to
be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in over 105 countries.
In addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products.

The following table reflects data as of December 31, 2005 concerning the Company s intellectual
property:

9

Table of Contents   

Over the next four years, 36 U.S. patents and 78 international patents that we currently hold will
expire. Although we may continue to use the technology underlying some of these patents, the
expiration of these patents is not expected to have a material impact on our operations for a
variety of reasons, including that many of the patents relate to the design or production of
products that we either no longer produce or that do not represent a significant portion of our
sales. In addition, we utilize other proprietary technologies and precision manufacturing processes
in the production of our products, which also reduce the risks associated with the expiration of
our patents. The remainder of our patents will expire starting in 2009.

We aggressively assert our rights under patent, trade secret, unfair competition, trademark and
copyright laws to protect our intellectual property, including product designs, proprietary
manufacturing processes and technologies, product research and concepts and recognized trademarks.
These rights are protected through patents and trademark registrations, the maintenance of trade
secrets, the development of trade dress, and where appropriate, litigation against those who are,
in our opinion, infringing these rights. We have filed suit against a number of competitors to
enforce certain of our patents and trademarks and have developed a reputation in the consumer
products industry as a vigorous defender of our intellectual property rights. This reputation acts
as a deterrent against the introduction of potentially infringing products by competitors and
counterfeiters.

We dissuade counterfeiting through active monitoring of the marketplace by our anti-counterfeiting
personnel and other employees and through services provided by outside firms that specialize in
anti-counterfeiting measures. Our sales representatives, distributors and retailers have also
proven to be effective watchdogs against infringing products, frequently notifying us of suspicious
products and assisting law enforcement agencies. Our sales representatives are educated on Oakley s
patents and trade dress and assist in preventing infringers from obtaining retail shelf space.

We intend to continue asserting our intellectual property rights against infringers.

Employees 

We employed approximately 2,900 full-time regular employees worldwide as of December 31, 2005.
We believe that our employees are among our most valuable resources and have been a key factor in
the success of Oakley s products. The Company is not a party to any organized labor agreements and
none of its employees are represented by a labor union. We consider our relationship with our
employees to be good and have never experienced a work stoppage due to labor disagreements.

Competition 

The consumer product markets in which we compete are each keenly competitive in the United
States and on a worldwide basis. The intense competition and rapid changes in technology and
consumer preferences in the markets for these products constitute significant risk factors in our
operations. We believe our innovative technology and design, integrated sunglass manufacturing
capabilities, effective brand and product marketing efforts and vigorous protection of our
intellectual property rights are important aspects of competition and are among our primary
competitive advantages.

In the non-prescription sports eyewear market, we compete with mostly smaller sunglass and goggle
companies in various niches of the sports market and a limited number of larger competitors, some
of whom have greater financial and other resources than we do. We believe that we are the leader
in this segment of the market, although various companies, including Luxottica, Marchon, Safilo and
various smaller niche brands, actively compete with us.

10

Table of Contents   

We also compete in the broader non-sports, or recreational, category of the sunglass market, which
is fragmented and highly competitive. The major competitive factors include fashion trends, brand
recognition, marketing strategies, distribution channels and the number and range of products
offered. A number of established companies, including Luxottica, compete in this wider market. In
order to retain our market share, we must continue to be competitive in quality and performance,
technology, method of distribution, style, brand image, intellectual property protection and
customer service.

Our chain of sunglass specialty stores competes primarily with mall-based sunglass specialty
retailers, the largest being Sunglass Hut, which is owned by Luxottica, a competitor that is also
our largest single customer. Luxottica s global wholesale network is in approximately 120
countries and its retail group includes Lenscrafters, Inc. Luxottica is larger and has greater
financial resources than Oakley.

Within the apparel and athletic footwear markets, we compete with large, established brands such as
Nike, Reebok, Adidas, Columbia Sportswear, Quiksilver, Billabong, North Face, Patagonia, Burton,
FootJoy and Timberland, among others, which may have greater financial and other resources than we
do. In addition to these dominant brands, we also compete with smaller niche brands, such as Vans,
Reef, Ashworth, and Teva, among others.

Our watches compete in the luxury and fashion segments of the watch market among brands including
Fossil, Omega, Rolex, Swatch Group, Swiss Army and TAG-Heuer.

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that
(i) govern activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects (such as emissions
to air, discharges to water, and the generation, handling, storage and disposal of solid and
hazardous wastes) or (ii) impose liability for the cost of cleanup or other remediation of
contaminated property, including damages from spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous
substances or wastes, in certain circumstances without regard to fault. Our manufacturing
operations routinely involve the handling of chemicals and wastes, some of which are or may become
regulated as hazardous substances. We have not incurred, and do not expect to incur, any
significant expenditures or liabilities for environmental matters. As a result, we believe that our
environmental obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial
position.

U.S and International Operations 

See Note 13 in  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  for discussion regarding U.S.
and International operations.

11

Table of Contents   

Item 1a.     Risk Factors  

Our business involves numerous risks, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a
description of some of those risks and their potential impact on our business. For additional
information about factors that may affect our business, see  Item 7. Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations .

One of our largest customers is also a major competitor. Our sales to this customer may decline. 

Net sales to the retail group of Luxottica, which include Sunglass Hut locations worldwide, were
approximately 7.0%, 7.6% and 8.9% of the Company s net sales for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively. Luxottica is also one of the Company s largest competitors in the
sunglass and optical frame markets. In December 2004, the Company and Luxottica entered into a
commercial agreement that established the terms applicable for 2005 between the two companies. The
term of the commercial agreement expired at the end of 2005. We are currently engaged in
discussions with Luxottica to establish a new commercial agreement, but there can be no assurances
as to the future of our relationship with Luxottica or the likelihood that we will reach an
agreement on acceptable terms. During the past several years, Luxottica has acquired certain
customers of the Company which, in some cases, has adversely impacted the Company s net sales to
such customers. There can be no assurance that the recent acquisitions or future acquisitions by
Luxottica, or the lack of a contract with Luxottica, will not have a material adverse impact on the
Company s financial position or results of operations.

The industries in which we compete are highly competitive; we may not be successful in developing
products that enable us to compete effectively. 

The consumer products industries are highly competitive and are subject to rapidly changing
consumer demands and preferences. The Company competes with numerous domestic and foreign
designers, brands and manufacturers of eyewear, apparel and accessories, electronics, footwear and
watches, some of which have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company. The
Company believes that its success depends in large part upon its ability to anticipate, gauge and
respond to changing consumer demands in a timely manner and to continually appeal to consumers of
the Oakley brand. Increased competition in the worldwide premium sunglass, prescription eyewear,
apparel and accessories, electronics, footwear and watch industries could reduce the Company s
sales and prices and could adversely affect its business and financial condition.

Our markets are characterized by frequent product innovation and changing consumer preferences. As
a result, we could accumulate significant unsold inventory, which may require us to reduce prices
and experience reduced sales, margins and consumer acceptance. 

The premium sunglass, prescription eyewear, apparel and accessories, electronics, footwear, goggles
and watch industries are characterized by constant product innovation due to changing consumer
preferences. As a result, the Company believes its success depends in large part on its ability to
continuously develop, market and deliver innovative and stylish products at a pace, intensity and
price competitive with other brands. In addition, the electronics category is generally subject to
short product life cycles because of rapid technology innovation. As a result, sales of the
Company s products may be subject to rebates, markdown allowances, price reductions and other
customer considerations in the relevant distribution channels. If the Company fails to regularly
and rapidly develop innovative products and update core products or if fashion trends shift away
from the Company s products, or if the Company otherwise misjudges the market for its product
lines, the Company may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory, and
such conditions could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of

12

Table of Contents   

the Company s products, limit sales growth or cause other conditions which could have a material
adverse effect on the Company.

We could be significantly harmed if any of our key personnel were to depart. 

The Company s operations depend to a great extent on the efforts of its key executive officers and
other key qualified personnel, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. The loss of
those key executive officers and qualified personnel may cause a significant disruption to the
Company s business and could adversely affect the Company s operations.

We may not be successful in protecting our proprietary rights, which could permit competitors to
offer products that compete more effectively and could increase our enforcement costs. 

The Company relies in part on patent, trade secret, unfair competition, trade dress, trademark and
copyright law to protect its right to certain aspects of its products, including product designs,
proprietary manufacturing processes and technologies, product research and concepts and recognized
trademarks, all of which the Company believes are important to the success of its products and its
competitive position. There can be no assurance that any pending trademark or patent application
will result in the issuance of a registered trademark or patent, or that any trademark or patent
granted will be effective in thwarting competition or be held valid if subsequently challenged. In
addition, there can be no assurance that the actions taken by the Company to protect its
proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of its products, that the Company s
proprietary information will not become known to competitors, that the Company can meaningfully
protect its right to unpatented proprietary information or that others will not independently
develop substantially equivalent or better products that do not infringe on the Company s
intellectual property rights. Moreover, over the next four years, 36 U.S. patents and 78
international patents that we currently hold will expire. The remainder of our patents will expire
starting in 2009. No assurance can be given that others will not assert rights in, and ownership
of, the patents and other proprietary rights of the Company. Also, the laws of some foreign
countries may not protect the Company s intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of
the United States.

Consistent with the Company s strategy of vigorously defending its intellectual property rights,
Oakley devotes substantial resources to the enforcement of patents issued and trademarks granted to
the Company, to the protection of trade secrets, trade dress or other intellectual property rights
owned by the Company and to the determination of the scope or validity of the proprietary rights of
others that might be asserted against the Company. A substantial increase in the level of
potentially infringing activities by others could require the Company to increase significantly the
resources devoted to such efforts. In addition, an adverse determination in litigation could
subject the Company to the loss of its rights to a particular patent, trademark, copyright or trade
secret, could require the Company to grant licenses to third parties, could prevent the Company
from manufacturing, selling or using certain aspects of its products or could subject the Company
to substantial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company s
results of operations.

13

Table of Contents   

We are dependent upon a single source supplier for a major component. The loss of this or other
major suppliers could materially adversely affect our business. 

In 2005, the Company executed a new exclusive agreement with a supplier that is the Company s
single source for the supply of uncoated lens blanks from which a majority of its sunglass lenses
are cut. In the event of the loss of this supplier, the Company has identified an alternate
source. There can be no assurance that, if necessary, an additional source of supply for lens
blanks or other critical materials could be located or developed in a timely manner. The effect of
the loss of this source (including any possible disruption in business) will depend primarily upon
the length of time necessary to find and use a suitable alternative source and could have a
material adverse impact on the Company s business. If the Company were to lose the source for its
lens blanks or other critical materials, it could have a materially adverse effect on the Company s
business.

Our principal shareholder may exercise control over the Company. 

The Company s Chairman, Jim Jannard, beneficially owned a majority of the outstanding Common Stock
of the Company at December 31, 2005. Consequently, Mr. Jannard has majority control of the Company
and the ability to control the election of directors and the results of other matters submitted to
a vote of shareholders. This concentration of ownership may have various effects, including but
not limited to, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company.

We have recently acquired, and may in the future acquire, other businesses. The integration of
these businesses would require substantial time and resources and may not be successful. 

We completed an acquisition in February 2006, announced the signing of a definitive agreement of
another acquisition in March 2006 which is expected to close by June 30, 2006, and plan to continue
to consider strategic acquisitions now and in the future. Management will continue to evaluate
potential strategic transactions and alternatives that it believes may enhance shareholder value.
These potential future transactions may include a variety of different business arrangements,
including spin-offs, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, licensing arrangements,
restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and equity or debt investments. Integrating
acquisitions is often costly, and delays or other operational or financial problems may result that
interfere with our operations. If we fail to implement proper business controls for companies we
acquire or fail to successfully integrate these acquired companies in our processes, our financial
condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, it is possible that
we may incur significant expenses in the evaluation and pursuit of potential transactions and that
such transactions may not be successfully completed. In these events, we may incur substantial
costs without any corresponding benefit. Other risks inherent in our acquisition strategy included
diversion of management s attention and resources, failure to retain key personnel and risks
associated with unanticipated events or liabilities. In addition, in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  we are
required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or
circumstances exist which indicate that goodwill may be impaired. As a result of changes in
circumstances after valuing assets in connection with acquisitions, we may be required to take
write-downs of intangible assets, including goodwill, which could be significant.

14

Table of Contents   

We are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties arising out of our substantial international
operations. 

Sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 47.0%, 47.9%, and 50.5% of the
Company s net sales for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. There can
be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain or increase its international sales. The
Company s international operations and international commerce are influenced by many factors,
including:

currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; 

local economic and political instability; 

wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts; 

natural disasters; 

changes in legal or regulatory requirements affecting foreign investment, loans, tariffs and
taxes; and 

less protective foreign laws relating to intellectual property 

changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments. 

The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict the Company s ability to
operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of its operations in that region.

Pursuant to the World Trade Organization (WTO) Agreement, effective January 1, 2005, the United
States and other WTO member countries removed quotas from WTO members. As the removal of quotas
resulted in an import surge from China, the U.S. took action in May 2005 and imposed safeguard
quotas on seven categories of goods. Exports of each specified product category will continue to
be admitted into the United States in the ordinary course until the restraint level for that
category is reached, after which further exports will be embargoed and will not be cleared until
after January 2006. Additionally, on June 10, 2005, in response to the surge of Chinese imports
into the European Union (EU), the EU Commission signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with
China in which ten categories of textiles and apparel will be subject to restraints. Certain of
the Company s apparel products fall within the categories subject to the safeguards in the U.S. and
the EU, which could adversely affect the Company s ability to import these products from China and
make them available to sell. At this time, based on expected U.S. and EU actions and other
mitigating factors, the Company believes that such safeguard measures will not have a material
impact on its sales in the U.S. and EU, but no assurance can be given with respect to the impact on
its sales. There can be no assurance that additional trade restrictions will not be imposed on the
imports of the Company s products in the future. Such actions could result in increases in the
cost of its products generally and may adversely affect the Company s results of operations.

We are dependent upon endorsement contracts with athletes and personalities, who may discontinue
arrangements that may not be replaced suitable alternatives. 

A key element of the Company s marketing strategy has been to establish contacts with, and obtain
endorsement from, prominent athletes and public personalities. These endorsement contracts
generally have terms from one to four years. The Company also furnishes its products at a reduced
cost or without charge to selected athletes and personalities who wear Oakley products without any
formal arrangement. There can be no assurance that any of these relationships with athletes and
personalities will continue, that such contracts will be renewed, and that the athletes and
personalities selected will remain popular or successful, or that the Company will be able to
attract new athletes to wear or endorse its products. If Oakley were unable in the future to
arrange endorsements of its products by athletes and/or public personalities on terms it deems
reasonable, it would be required to modify its marketing plans and could be forced to rely more
heavily on other forms of advertising and promotion, which might not prove to be as effective as
endorsements.

15

Table of Contents   

Possible Volatility of Stock Price 

The market price for shares of the Company s Common Stock may be volatile and may fluctuate based
upon a number of factors, including, without limitation, business performance, news announcements
or changes in general market conditions.

Other factors, in addition to the those risks included in this section, that may have a significant
impact on the market price of the Company s Common Stock include, but are not limited to:

receipt of substantial orders or order cancellations of products; 

quality deficiencies in services or products; 

international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; 

changes in recommendations of securities analysts; 

shortfalls in the Company s backlog, revenues or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities
analysts or projected by the Company; 

government regulations, including stock option accounting and tax regulations; 

energy blackouts; 

acts of terrorism and war; 

widespread illness; 

proprietary rights or product or patent litigation; 

strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and divestitures; 

rumors or allegations regarding the Company s financial disclosures or practices; 

currency exchange rate fluctuations or changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivative instruments; 

natural disasters; or 

earthquakes concentrated in Southern California where a significant portion of the Company s operations are based and could
result in a disruption of its operations, manufacturing and information systems. 

In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following
periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to changes in the volatility of
the Company s Common Stock price, the Company may be the target of securities litigation in the
future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management s attention
and resources.

Item 1b.     Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.

16

Table of Contents   

Item 2.     Properties  

We own our principal corporate and manufacturing facility located in Foothill Ranch, Orange
County, California. The facility constitutes approximately 550,000 square feet. We also own a
63,000 square-foot manufacturing facility in Nevada where we produce our  X-Metal       
 eyewear.

In addition, we lease office and warehouse space as necessary to support our operations worldwide,
including offices in Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, South
Africa, and the United Kingdom and the states of Arizona, California and Washington. We lease
approximately 186,000 square feet of space in Ontario, California to support the distribution needs
of our apparel, footwear and accessories lines. We own a business office and warehouse in Mexico
City to support operations there. We operate small manufacturing facilities in Ireland and Japan
that provide prescription lenses to Europe and Asia, respectively. We use a centralized footwear
and third-party apparel warehouse arrangement in the Netherlands. We believe that our current and
planned facilities are adequate to carry on our business as currently contemplated.

Item 3.     Legal Proceedings  

We are a party to various claims, complaints and other legal actions that have arisen in the
normal course of business from time to time. We believe the outcome of these pending legal
proceedings, in the aggregate, is not likely to have a material adverse effect on our operations or
financial position.

The United Kingdom s Office of Fair Trading (OFT) is in the process of conducting an investigation
of an Oakley subsidiary, for conduct under the United Kingdom Competition Act of 1998. In November
2005, the OFT issued a Statement of Objections, alleging that our subsidiary wrongfully restricted
resale prices for its sunglasses at one of its accounts. Oakley refutes the allegation, however
there can be no assurance that the Company s position will prevail on this matter. In the event of
an unfavorable outcome, the Company may be obligated to pay fines relating to its products sold.
At this time the Company is unable to estimate its potential liability, if any. Presently, based
upon advice from legal counsel, the Company believes that any liability for this matter would be
immaterial.

Item 4.     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

None

17

Table of Contents   

Part II  

Item 5.     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related   

Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

The Company s common stock, par value $0.01 per share (Common Stock), began trading on the New
York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in 1995 upon completion of the Company s initial public offering
(trading symbol  OO ). As of March 28, 2006, the closing sales price for the Common Stock was
$16.38. The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices for the Common Stock for
each quarter of 2005 and 2004 on the NYSE Composite Tape:

The number of shareholders of record of the Company s Common Stock on March 28, 2006 was 575.

Dividend Policy 

On September 26, 2005, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had declared a
regular annual cash dividend of $0.16 per share, an increase of $0.01 per share over the Company s
dividend of $0.15 per share declared during 2004. The $0.16 per share dividend, totaling $11.1
million, was paid on October 28, 2005 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on
October 14, 2005. Any future dividends are at the discretion, and subject to the approval, of the
Company s Board of Directors and compliance with Washington corporate law.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 

Securities authorized for issuance under the Company s equity compensation plans for the year
ended December 31, 2005 are as follows:

(c) 

Number of securities 

(a) 

remaining available for 

Number of securities 
       
     (b) 
       
     future issuance under 

to be issued upon 
       
     Weighted-average 
       
     equity compensation 

exercise of 
       
     exercise price of 
       
     plans (excluding 

outstanding options, 
       
     outstanding options, 
       
     securities reflected in 

Plan Category 
       
     warrants and rights 
       
     warrants and rights 
       
     column (a)) 

Equity
compensation plans
approved by
security holders

3,865,086 

$ 
     11.85 

973,957 

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders

Not applicable 
       
     Not applicable 
       
     Not applicable 

18

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth the purchases of equity securities made by Oakley during the
quarter ended December 31, 2005:

1) 
       
     During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company purchased 50,000 shares of its Common Stock
at an average price of $14.30 pursuant to the repurchase program that was publicly announced
on March 15, 2005. 

2) 
       
     In March 2005, the Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $20.0 million
of the Company s Common Stock to occur from time to time as market conditions warrant. 

19

Table of Contents   

Item 6.     Selected Financial Data   

The following table sets forth certain selected financial data regarding the Company which is
qualified by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes thereto. See  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements  and  Item 7.
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  The income
statement data and balance sheet data presented below have been derived from the consolidated
audited financial statements of the Company. The selected income statement data set forth herein
are for informational purposes only and may not necessarily be indicative of the Company s future
results of operations.

(1) 
       
     For fiscal years 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, amounts reflect the reclassification of credit card
fees incurred in connection with customer transactions at the Company s retail stores and in direct
sales operations from general and administrative expense into selling expense to be more consistent
with industry practice of accounting for retail stores and to conform to current year presentation.
See Note 1   Reclassifications 

20

Table of Contents   

Item 7.     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition      and Results of Operations  

Overview 

Oakley is an innovation-driven designer, manufacturer and distributor of consumer products
that include premium sunglasses, prescription eyewear, goggles, apparel and accessories,
electronics, footwear and watches. Our products are distributed in the United States through a
base of retail accounts that fluctuates between approximately 8,500 and 10,000 accounts, comprising
approximately 15,000 to 17,000 locations depending on seasonality of summer and winter products.
Oakley s retail account base is comprised of optical stores, sunglass retailers and specialty
sports stores, including bike, surf, snow, skate, golf and motorcycle stores, sporting goods stores
and department stores. The Company also operates 44 Oakley retail stores in the United States that
offer a full range of Oakley products. Additionally, the Company owns Iacon, Inc., a sunglass
retailing chain headquartered in Scottsdale, Arizona, with 105 sunglass specialty retail stores at
December 31, 2005. The Company also owns and operates six international Oakley stores and licenses
nine additional international Oakley store locations.

Internationally, the Company sells its products through its wholly owned subsidiaries in Australia,
Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, South Africa and the United
Kingdom. Additionally, in parts of the world not serviced by the Company or its subsidiaries,
Oakley products are sold through distributors who possess local expertise. These distributors sell
the Company s products either exclusively or with complementary products and agree to comply with
the marketing philosophy and practices of the Company.

After review of the Oakley brand and its business, the Company announced in February 2006, several
initiatives it believes will position the Company for improved revenue growth and profitability.
These initiatives include refocusing the Company on its optics business, realigning its apparel
platform, exiting from a significant portion of its footwear business, and increasing its
investment in brand development.

Critical Accounting Policies 

The Company s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. As such, the Company is
required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the balance sheet dates and the reported
amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting periods. Actual results could significantly
differ from such estimates. The Company believes that the following discussion addresses the
Company s most significant accounting policies, and aids in fully understanding and evaluating the
Company s reported financial results.

Revenue Recognition 

The Company recognizes wholesale revenue when 1) merchandise is shipped to a customer and the risks
and rewards of ownership and title have passed based on the terms of sale, 2) there is evidence of
a contractual arrangement, and 3) collection is reasonably assured. Revenue from the Company s
retail store operations is recognized upon purchase by customers at the point of sale. The Company
also licenses to third parties the rights to certain intellectual property and other proprietary
information and recognizes royalty revenue when earned. Generally, the Company extends credit to
its wholesale customers and does not require collateral. The Company performs ongoing credit
evaluations of those customers and historically, credit losses have
been insignificant and within management s
expectations.

21

Table of Contents   

The Company s standard sales agreements with its wholesale customers do not provide for any rights
of return by the customer other than returns for product warranty related issues. In addition to
these product warranty related returns, the Company may, at its discretion, accept other returns.
The Company records a provision for estimated future warranty related product returns based upon
historical data. The Company records provisions for other returns or sales discounts based upon
analysis of, and decisions made regarding, reseller inventories in the Company s distribution
channels. Actual returns and claims in any future period may differ from the Company s estimates.

The Company s standard sales agreements with its wholesale customers do not provide for price
protection or margin guarantees. The Company has at times, and at its discretion, provided its
wholesale customers with sales discounts or markdown allowances to assist the sell-through of their
slow moving inventories. The Company records provisions for sales discounts, markdown allowances,
rebates and similar commitments based upon analysis of, and decisions made regarding, reseller
inventories in the Company s distribution channels.

Inventory Sale and Purchase Transactions with the Same Third Party 

In certain cases, in the electronics category, the Company sells eyewear components to a third
party electronics vendor and subsequently purchases finished goods from the same electronics vendor
which contain such eyewear components.

The electronics vendor sells the finished goods through its distribution channels. The electronics
vendor has no right to return eyewear components to the Company. The Company has the right, but
not any obligation, to purchase finished goods from the electronics vendor, at a defined price, for
sale to its own wholesale and retail customers.

Net sales of eyewear components to the electronics vendor are eliminated from the Company s net
sales to the extent that the Company has purchased, or intends to purchase, finished goods from the
electronics vendor. Eyewear components sold to the electronics vendor which the Company intends to
purchase as part of finished goods are maintained on the Company s balance sheet as consignment
inventory held by the electronics vendor.

Finished
goods purchased by the Company are placed into inventory at cost, calculated as the invoice
value from the electronics vendor less the Company s margin on the sale of the related eyewear
components to such vendor. The Company recognizes the sale of the finished goods, and relieves
related inventory, when such finished goods are sold by the Company to its wholesale or retail
customers.

Inventories 

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost to purchase and/or manufacture the inventory or the
current estimated market value of the inventory, using the first-in, first-out method. The Company
regularly reviews its inventory quantities on hand and records a provision for excess and obsolete
inventory to appropriately reflect net realizable value for all slow-moving and discontinued
inventory based upon the Company s estimated forecast of product demand and production
requirements. Demand for the Company s products can fluctuate significantly. Many factors that
can affect demand for the Company s products include unanticipated changes in general market
conditions or other factors outside the control of the Company, which may result in cancellations
of advance orders or a reduction in the rate of reorders placed by retailers.

22

Table of Contents   

Derivative Instruments 

The Company designates its derivatives based upon the criteria established by SFAS 133, which
establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. SFAS 133, as
amended by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 138,   Accounting for Certain Derivative
Instruments and Certain hedging Activities   an amendment of SFAS 133  , (SFAS 138) and Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 149,   Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities  , (SFAS 149), requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets
or liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure those instruments at fair value.
The accounting for the changes in the fair value of the derivative depends on the intended use of
the derivative and the resulting designation. For a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge,
the effective portion of the derivative s fair value gain or loss is initially reported as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Any realized gain or loss on such
derivative is reported in cost of goods sold in the accounting period in which the derivative
matures. The fair value gain or loss from the ineffective portion of the derivative is reported in
cost of goods sold immediately. For a derivative that does not qualify as a cash flow hedge, the
change in fair value is recognized at the end of each accounting period in cost of goods sold.

Long-Lived Assets 

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,   Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets   (SFAS No. 144), the Company evaluates the carrying
value of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
such carrying values may not be recoverable. Under SFAS No. 144, the Company estimates the future
undiscounted cash flows derived from an asset to assess whether or not a potential impairment
exists when events or circumstances indicate the carrying value of a long-lived asset may differ.
If the sum of the undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss will
be recognized, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the
asset. The Company uses its best judgment based on the most current facts and circumstances
surrounding its business when applying these impairment rules to determine the timing of the
impairment test, the undiscounted cash flows used to assess impairments and the fair value of a
potentially impaired asset. Changes in assumptions used could have a significant impact on the
Company s assessment of recoverability. Numerous factors, including changes in the Company s
business, industry segment or the global economy could significantly impact management s decision
to retain, dispose of or idle certain of its long-lived assets. No impairments were recorded for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003.

Goodwill 

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,   Goodwill and
Intangible Assets ,  (SFAS No. 142), goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not
amortized but are tested for impairment annually and also tested in the event of an impairment
indicator. As required by SFAS No. 142, the Company evaluates the recoverability of goodwill based
on a two-step impairment test. The first step compares the fair value of each reporting unit with
its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds fair value, then the
second step of the impairment test is performed to measure the amount of any impairment loss. Fair
value is determined based on estimated future cash flows, discounted at a rate that approximates
the Company s cost of capital. Such estimates are subject to change and the Company may be
required to recognize impairment losses in the future. The Company completed its annual impairment
test for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 at December 31, 2005, and determined that no
impairment loss existed.

23

Table of Contents   

Warranties 

The Company provides warranties from 30 days to one year, depending on the product line, against
manufacturer s defects on its products when purchased from an authorized Oakley dealer.

The Company s standard warranties require the Company to repair or replace defective product
returned to the Company during such warranty period with proof of purchase from an authorized
Oakley dealer. The Company maintains a reserve for its product warranty liability based on
estimates calculated using historical warranty experience. While warranty costs have historically
been within the Company s expectations, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to
experience the same warranty return rates or repair costs as in prior years. A significant
increase in product warranty rates, or a significant increase in the costs to repair product, could
have a material adverse impact on the Company s operating results.

Income Taxes 

Current income tax expense is the amount of income taxes expected to be payable for the current
year. A deferred income tax asset or liability is established for the expected future consequences
of temporary differences in the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The
Company considers future taxable income and ongoing, prudent and feasible tax planning strategies
in assessing the value of its deferred tax assets. If the Company determines that it is more
likely than not that these assets will not be realized, the Company will reduce the value of these
assets to their expected realizable value, thereby decreasing net income. Evaluating the value of
these assets is necessarily based on the Company s judgment. If the Company subsequently
determined that the deferred tax assets, which had been written down, would be realized in the
future, the value of the deferred tax assets would be increased, thereby increasing net income in
the period when that determination was made.

The Company believes it has adequately provided for income tax issues not yet resolved with
federal, state and foreign tax authorities. At December 31, 2005, $2.8 million was accrued for
such matters. Although not probable, the most adverse resolution of these issues could result in
additional charges to earnings in future periods. Based upon a consideration of all relevant facts
and circumstances, the Company does not believe the ultimate resolution of tax issues for all open
tax periods will have a materially adverse effect upon its results of operations or financial
condition.

Insurance Coverage 

The Company is partially self-insured for its workers  compensation insurance coverage. Under this
insurance program, the Company is liable for a deductible of $250,000 for each individual claim and
an aggregate annual liability of $2,398,500 for claims incurred during the current policy period.
The Company records a liability for the actuarially estimated cost of claims both reported, and
incurred but not reported, based upon its historical experience. The estimated costs include the
estimated future cost of all open claims. The Company will continue to adjust the estimates as its
actual experience dictates. A significant change in the number or dollar amount of claims or other
actuarial assumptions could cause the Company to revise its estimate of potential losses and could
affect its reported results.

24

Table of Contents   

Foreign Currency Translation 

The Company s subsidiaries outside the United States purchase most of their finished goods in U.S.
dollars and collect money at future dates in the customers  local currencies. Accordingly, the
Company is exposed to transaction gains and losses that could result from changes in foreign
currency exchange rates. Assets and liabilities of the Company denominated in foreign currencies
are translated at the rate of exchange on the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are
translated using the average exchange rate for the period. Gains and losses from translation of
foreign subsidiary financial statements are included in accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss). Gains and losses on short-term intercompany foreign currency transactions are recognized
as incurred. As part of the Company s overall strategy to manage its level of exposure to the risk
of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the Company and its subsidiaries have entered
into various foreign exchange contracts in the form of forward and option contracts.

25

Table of Contents   

Results of Operations 

The following tables set forth operating results in dollars and as a percentage of net sales
for the periods indicated.

OAKLEY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
(dollars in thousands) 

(1) For fiscal years 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, amounts reflect the reclassification of credit
card fees incurred in connection with customer transactions at the Company s retail stores and in
direct sales operations from general and administrative expense into selling expense to be more
consistent with industry practice of accounting for retail stores and to conform to current year
presentation. See Note 1   Reclassifications

26

Table of Contents   

Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 

Net sales 

Net sales increased to $648.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $585.5 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $62.6 million, or 10.7%. Gross sales were $693.3
million in 2005 compared to $621.7 million for 2004.

Gross sunglass sales increased $22.3 million to $336.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
compared to $314.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This growth reflected an 8.1%
increase in worldwide sunglass unit shipments due to strong introductions of the Company s new
sunglass styles, partially offset by a slight decline in the average selling price. The decrease
in average selling price is a result of greater sales of the Company s more moderately priced new
sunglass introductions in 2005.

Gross sales from the Company s newer product categories, comprised of apparel, apparel accessories,
electronics, prescription eyewear, footwear, and watches, increased 15.8%, or $32.7 million, to
$239.2 million for 2005 from $206.5 million for 2004. As a percentage of gross sales, these new
product categories accounted for 34.5% of total gross sales for 2005 compared to 33.2% for 2004.
The sales growth was driven by sales from the Company s electronics product line launched during
the fourth quarter of 2004, together with increases in the Company s apparel and accessories lines
and prescription eyewear, partially offset by small declines in watch and footwear sales. Gross
sales from the Company s goggles line increased 7.3% to $42.0 million in 2005 from $39.2 million at
2004. Although the Company currently expects that these newer product categories will have a
significant positive contribution to the Company s gross sales, there can be no assurance that
these newer product categories will be well received by consumers and therefore no assurance that
these newer product categories will contribute significantly to future years  results.

The Company s U.S. net sales, excluding retail store operations, increased 4.2% for the year ended
December 31, 2005 to $242.4 million from $232.5 million in 2004 as a result of a 5.0%, or $9.9
million, increase in net sales to the Company s broad specialty store account base and other
domestic sales. U.S sales to Luxottica remained relatively flat at $35.0 million for each of the
years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. As a percentage of net sales, sales to Luxottica decreased
to 7.0% for 2005 as compared to 7.6% for 2004.

Net sales from the Company s retail store operations increased 39.5% to $101.0 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005, compared to $72.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net sales
from the Company s retail stores reflect double digit increases in comparable store sales (stores
open at least twelve months) for both Oakley and Iacon retail stores. Additionally, during 2005,
the Company opened eight new Oakley stores and added 22 Iacon stores, including five retail
locations acquired by Iacon in April 2005. At December 31, 2005, the Company operated 44 Oakley
stores and 105 Iacon stores compared to 36 Oakley Stores and 83 Iacon stores at December 31, 2004.
These store openings also contributed to the increase in net sales from the Company s retail store
operations.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company s international net sales increased 8.6%, or
$24.2 million, to $304.7 million from $280.5 million for 2004, with the weaker U.S. dollar
accounting for 2.1 percentage points, or $5.8 million, of this increase. This increase was also
driven by greater sales of the Company s sunglass styles introduced during 2005 and higher sales of
apparel and electronics products as compared to 2004. The Company experienced strong net sales
growth in Latin America, the South Pacific, Japan and the rest of Asia, Canada and South Pacific
and more modest growth in South Africa, partially offset by a slight sales decline in Europe, where
the Company continued to face a weak

27

Table of Contents   

retail environment in certain countries and a continuing loss of market share in sunglasses in
select markets. As a result of poor results achieved at its Mexican subsidiary during the prior
year, the Company reorganized its Mexico operations in 2005 and designated an exclusive distributor
as of July 1, 2005 to serve the Mexican and Central American markets in order to improve
profitability. Additionally, the Company owns and operates seven international Oakley stores at
December 31, 2005 compared to five international Oakley stores at December 31, 2004. Sales from
Company-operated international offices represented 83.4% of total international sales for 2005,
compared to 86.0% for 2004.

Gross profit 

Gross profit increased $47.9 million, or 14.8%, to $370.9 million for the year ended December 31,
2005 from $323.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Gross margin, or gross profit as a
percentage of net sales, increased to 57.2% in 2005 from 55.2% in the prior year. The increase in
gross profit reflects the favorable impact of the unrealized change in fair value on the Company s
foreign currency derivatives of $13.0 million in 2005 as compared to a favorable change in fair
value of only $2.6 million in 2004. Gross margin excluding the impact of changes in the fair value
of foreign currency derivatives is shown in the table below

Gross margin excluding the impact of changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives
increased to 55.2% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 from 54.7% for the twelve months
ended December 31, 2004 due to higher margins in most product categories other than electronics and
to more favorable realized gains from the Company s foreign currency hedging program. These
positive factors were partially offset by increases in discounts and markdowns, increased inventory
reserves and a greater mix of newer category products that carry lower gross margins. See Item 7.
GAAP and Non-GAAP financial measures.

Operating expenses 

Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased to $281.4 million from $257.6
million for the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $23.8 million, or 9.2%. As a
percentage of net sales, operating expenses decreased to 43.4% of net sales for the year ended
December 31, 2005 compared to 44.0% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004. The largest
contributors to the increase in operating expenses in absolute dollars were expenses associated
with increased sales volumes, higher operating expenses related to the Company s expanded retail
store operations and higher foreign operating expenses resulting from a weaker U.S. dollar.
Operating expenses included $30.6 million of expenses for the Company s retail store operations, an
increase of $7.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $23.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The increase in retail store operating expenses is primarily due to the greater
number of stores at December 31, 2005 compared to the number of stores at December 31, 2004. The
weakening of the U.S. dollar, compared to most other currencies in which the Company transacts
business, contributed approximately $2.1 million, or 8.8%, of the increase.

Research and development expenses increased $1.9 million to $17.9 million, or 2.8% of net sales,
for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $16.0 million, or 2.7% of net sales, for the year ended
December 31, 2004. This increase is primarily due to increased design personnel and related benefit
costs of $1.1 million and increased product design expenses of $0.9 million, including those for
the Company s new electronics product category.

28

Table of Contents   

Selling expenses increased $13.7 million, or 8.5%, to $174.6 million for the year ended December
31, 2005 from $160.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. As a percentage of net sales,
selling expenses were 26.9% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 27.5% for
the year ended December 31, 2004. Higher retail selling expenses, primarily due to increased store
count, contributed $6.4 million, or 46.7%, of this increase. Excluding retail store operations,
expenses contributing to the increase in selling expenses in absolute dollars were $2.0 million in
increased sales personnel and related benefit costs, $1.2 million for increased sports marketing
expenses, $1.2 million for sales commissions and $0.9 million for increased e-commerce expenses.

Shipping and warehousing expenses increased $0.4 million to $17.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005, from $17.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. As a percentage of net
sales, shipping expenses decreased to 2.7% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005
compared to 2.9% for the year ended December 31, 2004 primarily due to the Company s cost control
efforts and leverage on higher sales.

General and administrative expenses increased $7.8 million, or 12.2%, to $71.4 million, or 11.0% of
net sales, for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $63.6 million, or 10.9% of net sales, for the
year ended December 31, 2004. General and administrative expenses for the Company s retail stores
increased $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from the prior year, primarily due to
increased store count. Excluding retail operations, expenses contributing to the increase in
general and administrative expenses were $5.7 million in greater personnel and related benefit
costs, including the addition of new senior executive officers, temporary help, recruiting
expenses, restricted stock expense and an increase of $1.2 million in bad debt expense, partially
offset by a $1.0 million reduction in the Company s flight department expense during the 2005
period resulting from an increased reimbursement from the Company s Chairman for his personal use
of the aircraft during 2005 as compared to $0.1 million reimbursement in 2004. Additionally, in
2004, the Company recorded a foreign exchange loss of $0.5 million related to the repatriation of
profits by the Company s subsidiary in the United Kingdom.

Operating income 

The Company s operating income increased to $89.5 million, or 13.8% of net sales, for the year
ended December 31, 2005 from $65.3 million, or 11.2% of net sales, for the year ended December 31,
2004, an increase of $24.2 million, or 37.0%.

Interest income (expense), net 

The Company recorded net interest income of $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
compared to net interest expense of $1.0 million for the prior year. The Company began charging
interest to its U.S. customers with past due receivable balances in the first quarter of 2005. The
interest income charged to customers, together with interest income on the Company s cash balances,
partially offset the Company s interest expense paid on its outstanding working capital debt, its
term loan and interest rate swap agreement for the year ended December 31, 2005.

29

Table of Contents   

Income taxes 

The Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $30.3 million for the year ended December 31,
2005, compared to $20.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The Company s effective tax
rate for the year ended December 31, 2005 was 33.7%, higher than the fiscal 2004 rate of 32.3%, but
continues to be below the statutory rate of 35%. In 2004, the statutory tax rate was reduced by a
release of reserve related to the closure of prior year Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and French
income tax audits in addition to export tax benefits claimed by the Company. The 2005 statutory
rate was also reduced, but not as significantly, by the benefit of a California income tax refund
received, the release of reserves related to various prior year tax exposures, and export and
production tax benefits claimed by the Company. The income tax refund received in the second
quarter of 2005 of approximately $0.75 million related to amended prior period California state
income tax returns.

On August 2, 2004, the IRS notified the Company of a proposed audit adjustment related to advance
payment agreements executed by the Company in December 2000 with its foreign sales corporation,
Oakley International Inc., and two wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries, Oakley UK and Oakley Europe.
This adjustment resulted from the IRS audit for the tax years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001. The
adjustment could result in additional tax liability and penalties of approximately $11.2 million.
The Company believes that its position with respect to this issue will ultimately prevail on its
merits and therefore does not expect to pay the additional tax and penalties reflected in this
adjustment. The Company is continuing to protest this adjustment with the IRS and intends to
continue to assert and defend its position through applicable IRS administrative and/or judicial
procedures. Accordingly, the Company has not provided any amounts
in its financial statements for the settlement of this matter. In the event that the Company does
not prevail under protest, management expects that the adjustment should not have a material impact
on the Company s financial results because the Company has insurance in place which it believes
will cover such adjustment and any associated expenses.

Net income 

The company s net income increased to $59.7 million, or 9.2% of net sales, for the year ended
December 31, 2005 from $43.5 million, or 7.4% of net sales, for the year ended December 31, 2004,
an increase of $16.2 million, or 37.1%, due to higher net sales, improved gross margins and the
Company s management of its expenses.

Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 

Net sales 

Net sales increased to $585.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $528.0 million for
the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of $57.5 million, or 10.9%. Gross sales were $621.7
million in 2004 compared to $567.1 million for 2003.

Gross sunglass sales increased $4.1 million to $314.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004
compared to $310.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. This increase was due to strong
sales of polarized versions of the Company s sunglasses, and sales from newly introduced
sunglasses ,  partially offset by declines in sales of the Company s more mature products. In
addition, initial sales of combat eyewear to the U.S. Army and a 3.3% increase in the average
selling price contributed to increased gross sales. The increase in average selling price is due
to the effect of a weak U.S. dollar on international sales, a higher contribution from polarized
styles that carry higher average prices and a greater contribution from the Company s retail store
operations. Sunglass units decreased 2.0% in 2004 compared to 2003 due to competitive pressures
from fashion and action sports brands.

30

Table of Contents   

Gross sales from the Company s newer product categories, comprised of apparel, apparel accessories,
electronics, prescription eyewear, footwear, and watches, increased 25.1%, or $41.4 million, to
$206.5 million for 2004 from $165.1 million for 2003. As a percentage of gross sales, these new
product categories accounted for 33.2% of total gross sales for 2004 compared to 29.1% for 2003.
The largest contributors to this increase were gross sales from the launch of the Company s
electronics product line of $19.8 million and increased gross sales from the Company s apparel and
apparel accessories categories which increased 24.7%, or $18.9 million, to $94.9 million for 2004
from $76.0 million for 2003. Prescription eyewear gross sales increased 11.9%, or $5.1 million, to
$47.8 million in 2004 from $42.7 million in 2003, primarily due to the introduction of new styles
and increased sales of lenses. Footwear gross sales declined 11.8%, or $4.3 million, to $32.2
million in 2004 from $36.5 million in 2003 as a result of declines in the Company s lifestyle
footwear styles, partially offset by stronger sales for the Company s golf shoes, sandals and
military footwear. Watch gross sales increased 20.2%, or $2.0 million, to $11.9 million in 2004
from $9.9 million in 2003, as the Company transitioned its product development and sales efforts to
focus on premium analog watch designs and distribution. Gross sales of the Company s goggles
increased 8.3% to $39.2 million in 2004 from $36.2 million at 2003, due to strong fourth quarter
reorder activity. Other revenue, consisting of sales of equipment, sunglass and goggle
accessories, Iacon s sales of sunglass brands other than the Company s and shipping and handling
fees charged to customers, increased $6.0 million to $61.4 million for 2004 compared to $55.4
million for 2003. Although the Company currently expects that these newer product categories will
have a significant positive contribution to the Company s gross sales, there can be no assurance
that these newer product categories will be well received by consumers and therefore no assurance
that these newer product categories will contribute significantly to future years  results.

The Company s U.S. net sales, excluding retail store operations, increased 11.7% for the year ended
December 31, 2004 to $232.5 million from $208.2 million in 2003 as a result of a 15.4% increase in
net sales to the Company s broad specialty store account base and other domestic sales, partially
offset by a 5.7% decrease in sales to the Company s largest U.S. customer, Sunglass Hut and its
affiliates. Sales to Sunglass Hut decreased $2.1 million to $35.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 from $37.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease reflects
the first quarter effect of Sunglass Hut s efforts to attain a more efficient Oakley inventory
level at their distribution center along with slower than expected Oakley product sales at Sunglass
Hut stores during the year. Sales from the Company s electronics products introduced in the fourth
quarter of 2004, and sales of combat eyewear to the U.S. Army were contributors to the increase in
the Company s domestic sales.

Net sales from the Company s retail store operations increased to $72.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 as a result of increased store locations, compared to $53.2 million for the year
ended December 31, 2003, an increase of $19.2 million, or 36.1%. During 2004, the Company opened
nine new Oakley stores and eight Iacon stores. At December 31, 2004, the Company operated 36
Oakley stores and 83 Iacon stores compared to 27 Oakley stores and 76 Iacon stores at December 31,
2003. The increase in net sales from the Company s retail stores reflects an increase in stores
and increased comparable store sales (stores opened at least twelve months) for both Oakley and
Iacon retail stores.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company s international net sales increased 5.2%, or
$13.9 million, to $280.5 million from $266.6 million for 2003. The weaker U.S. dollar accounted
for 7.6 percentage points, or $20.4 million, of sales benefit. The Company achieved growth in all
international regions other than Australia. International sales benefited from the limited release
of the Company s electronics products in key markets and increased sales of apparel and sunglass
styles introduced during 2004. Additionally, the Company s Mexico subsidiary failed to generate
profits amid the challenges of the Mexican market, and the Company intends to reorganize its
operations there in 2005 to improve profitability. Sales from the Company s direct international
offices represented 86.0% of total international sales for 2004, compared to 88.0% for 2003.

31

Table of Contents   

Gross profit 

Gross profit increased to $323.0 million, or 55.2% of net sales, for the year ended December 31,
2004 from $282.5 million, or 53.5% of net sales, for the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase
of $40.5 million, or 14.3%. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of net sales reflects the
favorable fair value change in the Company s foreign currency contracts of $2.6 million in 2004
compared to an unfavorable change in the fair value of foreign currency contracts of $7.8 million
in 2003. Excluding the positive effect of changes in the fair value of the Company s foreign
exchange derivative instruments, gross profit as a percent of sales for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2004 decreased slightly from the twelve months ended December 31, 2003 due to a lower
mix of sunglass sales and lower average sunglass margins resulting from slightly reduced production
volumes, increased costs on new sunglass models, increased overhead costs, including greater
provisions for workers  compensation expenses and higher labor overtime costs and additional duties
paid in one international market in 2004. These decreases were partially offset by improved
apparel product margins and reduced sales returns and discounts.

Operating expenses 

Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased to $257.6 million from $230.5
million for the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of $27.1 million, or 11.8%. As a
percentage of net sales, operating expenses increased to 44.0% of net sales for the year ended
December 31, 2004 compared to 43.7% of net sales for 2003. The largest contributors to this
increase were expenses associated with increased sales volumes, higher foreign operating expenses
resulting from a weaker U.S. dollar and higher operating expenses related to the Company s expanded
retail store operations. The weakening of the U.S. dollar, compared to most other currencies in
which the Company transacts, accounted for approximately $8.5 million, or 30.7%, of the increase.
Operating expenses included $23.3 million of expenses for the Company s retail store operations, an
increase of $4.1 million from $19.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.

Research and development expenses increased $1.7 million to $16.0 million, or 2.7% of net sales,
for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $14.3 million, or 2.7% of net sales, for the year ended
December 31, 2003. This increase is primarily due to increased design personnel and related benefit
costs of $0.7 million and increased product design expenses of $0.5 million, including those for
the Company s new electronics product category.

Selling expenses increased $17.4 million to $160.9 million, or 27.5% of net sales, for the year
ended December 31, 2004 from $143.5 million, or 27.2% of net sales, for the year ended December 31,
2003. The weakening of the U.S. dollar contributed $5.5 million, or 31.6%, to this increase along
with increased retail selling expense of $3.3 million over 2003, which is primarily due to
increased store count as compared to the prior year. Excluding retail store operations, expenses
contributing to the increase in selling expenses were $4.9 million in increased sales personnel and
related benefit costs, including restricted stock expense; $3.3 million for increased sports
marketing expenses; $1.2 million for increased travel and trade show expenses; $0.9 million for
increased sales commissions; and $0.8 million for increased advertising and marketing expenses.

Shipping and warehousing expenses increased $2.5 million to $17.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004, from $14.6 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003. Approximately
$1.1 million, or 44.0%, of this increase was attributable to the weakening of the U.S. dollar. As
a percentage of net sales, shipping expenses increased to 2.9% of net sales for 2004 compared to
2.8% for 2003 primarily due to increased costs associated with the Company s international
distribution centers.

32

Table of Contents   

General and administrative expenses increased $5.6 million to $63.6 million, or 10.9% of net sales,
for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $58.0 million, or 11.0% of net sales, for the year ended
December 31, 2003. Approximately $1.8 million, or 32.1%, of this increase was attributable to the
weakening of the U.S. dollar and $0.8 million was due to increased general and administrative
expense for the Company s retail store operations. In 2004, the Company recorded a foreign
exchange loss of $0.5 million related to the repatriation of profits by the Company s subsidiary in
the United Kingdom. This type of foreign exchange loss is not expected to occur in the future as
the Company changed its hedging practice to exclude the repatriation of earnings, if the Company
should decide to do so, where there is no offsetting increase in gross margin. Excluding retail
operations, itemized expenses contributing to the increase in general and administrative expenses
were $3.6 million in greater personnel and related benefit costs, including increases in vacation
and workers  compensation reserves; restricted stock expense and personnel expenses associated with
Sarbanes-Oxley compliance; $1.1 million in increased professional fees including greater internal
audit fees and fees associated with Sarbanes-Oxley compliance; offset by $0.5 million decrease in
bad debt expense. There can be no assurance that general and administrative expenses will not
increase in the future, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of total net sales, and
increases in these expenses could adversely affect the Company s profitability.

Operating income 

The Company s operating income increased to $65.3 million, or 11.2% of net sales, for the year
ended December 31, 2004 from $52.0 million, or 9.8% of net sales for the year ended December 31,
2003, an increase of $13.3 million, or 25.7%.

Interest expense, net 

The Company s net interest expense decreased to $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004
from $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, principally because the Company had higher
average cash balances in 2004.

Income taxes 

The Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $20.8 million for the year ended December 31,
2004, compared to $17.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The Company s effective tax
rate for the year ended December 31, 2004 was 32.3% compared to 35% for 2003. The reduction
results from the favorable closure of prior year IRS and French income tax issues.

During 2004, the Company was under audit by the IRS for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001.
On August 2, 2004, the IRS notified the Company of a proposed audit adjustment related to advance
payment agreements executed by the Company in December 2000 with its foreign sales corporation,
Oakley International Inc., and two wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries, Oakley UK and Oakley Europe.
The adjustment could result in additional tax liability and penalties of approximately $11.2
million. The Company believes that its position with respect to this issue will ultimately prevail on its
merits and therefore does not expect to pay the additional tax and penalties reflected in this
adjustment. The Company is continuing to protest this adjustment with the IRS and intends to
continue to assert and defend its position through applicable IRS administrative and/or judicial
procedures. Accordingly, the Company has not
provided any amounts in its financial statements for the settlement of this matter. In the event
that the Company does not prevail under protest, management expects that the adjustment should not
have a material impact on the Company s financial results because the Company has insurance in
place which it believes will cover such adjustment and any associated expenses.

33

Table of Contents   

Net income 

The Company s net income increased to $43.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $32.9
million for the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of $10.6 million, or 32.1%.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company historically has financed its operations almost entirely with cash flow generated
from operations and borrowings under its credit facilities. Cash provided by operating activities
totaled $76.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to $45.6 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004. Cash flows from operating activities, compared to the preceding year,
were primarily impacted by the timing of receivables collections, the timing of vendor payments,
the payment of income taxes and increases in the Company s inventory. The Company s cash
balance was $82.2 million at December 31, 2005 compared to $51.7 million at December 31, 2004. At
December 31, 2005, working capital was $250.8 million compared to $199.5 million at December 31,
2004, a 25.7% increase. Working capital may vary from time to time as a result of seasonality, new
product category introductions and changes in accounts receivable and inventory levels. Accounts
receivable balances, less allowance for doubtful accounts and reserves for sales returns, totaled
$99.4 million at December 31, 2005, compared to $102.8 million at December 31, 2004, with accounts
receivable days outstanding of 57 for both years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Inventories
increased 3.5% to $119.0 million at December 31, 2005, compared to $115.1 million at December 31,
2004, due to increases in electronics, eyewear, and apparel inventories. Inventory turns were 2.4
for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2.5 for the year ended December 31, 2004.

On February 9, 2006, the Company announced the acquisition of privately-held Oliver Peoples, Inc.,
which designs, produces and sells luxury eyewear. On March 14, 2006, the Company announced that it
had signed a definitive agreement to purchase all of the outstanding stock of the privately held
Optical Shops of Aspen and its parent company OSA Holding, Inc. The Company expects this
acquisition to be completed by June 30, 2006. These acquisitions will utilize substantially all of
the Company s cash balances at December 31, 2005.

Credit Facilities 

In August 2004, the Company amended its credit agreement with a bank syndicate. The amended credit
agreement allows for borrowings of up to $75.0 million and matures in September 2007. Borrowings
under the line of credit are unsecured and bear interest at either the Eurodollar Rate (LIBOR) plus
0.75% (5.29% at December 31, 2005) or the bank s prime lending rate minus 0.25% (7.00% at December
31, 2005). At December 31, 2005, the Company did not have any balance outstanding under the credit
facility. The amended credit agreement contains various restrictive covenants including the
maintenance of certain financial ratios. Certain of the Company s foreign subsidiaries have
negotiated local lines of credit to provide working capital financing. These foreign lines of
credit bear interest at rates ranging from 0.74% to 6.10%. Some of the Company s foreign
subsidiaries have bank overdraft accounts that renew annually and bear interest at rates ranging
from 2.86% to 10.50%. The aggregate borrowing limit on the foreign lines of credit and overdraft
accounts is $26.6 million, of which $11.3 million was outstanding at December 31, 2005.

34

Table of Contents   

The Company believes that existing capital, anticipated cash flow from operations, and current and
anticipated borrowings under its current or future credit facilities will be sufficient to meet
operating needs and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months. The Company s
short-term funding comes from its current revolving line of credit which contains various
restrictive covenants including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. At December 31, 2005,
the Company was in compliance with all restrictive covenants and financial ratios.

In connection with the acquisition of Oliver Peoples, the Company amended its existing credit
facilities with a bank syndicate. The amended credit facilities allow the acquisition of Oliver
Peoples to be excluded from the calculated maximum of permitted acquisitions during the term of the
credit facilities.

The Company completed an acquisition in February 2006, announced the signing of a definitive
agreement of another acquisition in March 2006 which is expected to close by June 30, 2006, and
plans to continue to consider strategic acquisitions now and in the future. Any such acquisition
completed by the Company may have an impact on liquidity.

The Company also has a real estate term loan with an outstanding balance of $10.3 million at
December 31, 2005, which matures in September 2007. The term loan, which is collateralized by the
Company s corporate headquarters, requires quarterly principal payments of approximately $380,000
($1,519,000 annually), plus interest based upon LIBOR plus 1.00% (5.41% at December 31, 2005). In
January 1999, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement that hedges the Company s
risk of fluctuations in the variable rate of its long-term debt by fixing the interest rate over
the term of the note at 6.31%. As of December 31, 2005, the fair value of the Company s interest
rate swap agreement was a loss of approximately $0.1 million.

Note Payable 

As of December 31, 2005, the Company also has a non-interest bearing note payable in the amount of
$0.5 million, net of discounts, in connection with its acquisition of Iacon, Inc. Payment under
the note is due in 2006, with such payments contingent upon certain conditions.

Capital Expenditures 

Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $35.1 million, which included $10.9
million for retail store operations. Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2005,
excluding capital expenditures for retail operations, included $8.3 million for production
equipment and new product tooling, $6.7 million for information technology infrastructure,
including software, computers and related equipment, $3.9 million for in-store displays and $5.3
million for facility building improvements, furniture and fixtures and autos. As of December 31,
2005, the Company had commitments of approximately $0.8 million for future capital purchases.

Stock Repurchase 

During 2005, the Company purchased 864,525 shares of its Common Stock at an aggregate cost of
approximately $11.8 million, or an average price of $13.64. In 2005, 405,840 shares were
repurchased under the remaining authorization from a stock repurchase program previously
authorized. The remaining 458,685 shares were purchased under the $20.0 million repurchase program
approved by the Company s Board of Directors in March 2005. As of December 31, 2005, approximately
$13.7 million remains available for repurchases under the current authorization. The Company
intends to continue to remain active with its share repurchase program should the right market
conditions exist.

35

Table of Contents   

Cash Dividend 

On September 26, 2005, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had declared the Company s
regular annual cash dividend of $0.16 per share, an increase of $0.01 per share over the Company s
dividend of $0.15 per share declared during 2004. The $0.16 per share dividend, totaling $11.1
million, was paid on October 28, 2005 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on
October 14, 2005. Any future dividends are at the discretion, and subject to the approval, of the
Company s Board of Directors and compliance with Washington corporate law.

Contractual Obligations and Commitments 

The following table gives additional guidance related to the Company s future obligations and
commitments as of December 31, 2005:

1) 
       
     The Company has entered into endorsement contracts with selected athletes and others who
endorse the Company s products. Under these contracts, the Company has agreed to pay
certain incentives based on specific achievements and is required to pay minimum annual
payments. The amounts listed above for endorsement contracts represent approximate amounts
of minimum compensation required to be paid under these contracts. The estimated total
maximum amount that could be paid under existing contracts is approximately $12.1 million
and would assume that all achievements are met. Actual amounts paid under these contracts
may be higher or lower than the amounts listed as a result of the variable nature of these
obligations. 

2) 
       
     Amounts listed for purchase obligations represent contractual agreements, letters of
credit and open purchase orders for products or services to be incurred in the ordinary
course of business, which are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant
terms. (See Note 8 in  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements .) 

Warranty Provision 

The Company provides warranties against manufacturer s defects for its products and maintains a
reserve for its product warranty liability based on estimates calculated using historical warranty
experience. Warranty liability activity for the years ended December 31, was as follows:

36

Table of Contents   

Seasonality 

The following table sets forth certain unaudited quarterly data for the periods shown:

(1) 
       
     Amounts reflect the restatement as discussed in Note 16. 

Historically, the Company s aggregate sales have been highest in the period from March to
September, the period during which sunglass use is typically highest in the Northern Hemisphere.
As a result, operating margins are typically lower in the first and fourth quarters, as fixed
operating costs are spread over lower sales volume. In anticipation of seasonal increases in
demand, the Company typically builds sunglass inventories in the fourth quarter and first quarter
when net sales have historically been lower. In addition, sales of other products, which generate
gross profits at lower levels than sunglasses, are generally lowest in the second quarter. This
seasonal trend contributes to the Company s gross profit in the second quarter, which historically
has been the highest of the year. Although the Company s business generally follows this seasonal
trend, new product category introductions, such as prescription eyewear, apparel, electronics,
footwear, and watches, and the Company s retail and international expansion have partially
mitigated the impact of seasonality.

Backlog 

Historically, the Company has generally shipped most eyewear orders within one day of receipt,
with longer lead times for its other pre-booked product categories. At December 31, 2005, the
Company had a backlog of $51.7 million, including backorders (merchandise remaining unshipped
beyond its scheduled shipping date) of $12.0 million, compared to a backlog of $55.3 million,
including backorders of $10.5 million, at December 31, 2004. The backlog reflects a significant
decline in spring apparel and footwear orders, partially offset by a substantial increase in
eyewear orders.

Inflation 

The Company does not believe inflation has had a material impact on the Company in the past,
although there can be no assurance that this will be the case in the future.

New Accounting Pronouncements 

Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 1 in  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements  for the year ended December 31, 2005, which note is incorporated
herein by this reference.

37

Table of Contents   

GAAP and Non-GAAP Financial Measures 

This document includes a discussion of gross sales and components thereof, each of which may
be a non-GAAP financial measure. Net sales, as reported in the Company s consolidated statements
of income, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances.
Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent
with its segment reporting, the Company presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing
its aggregate product category results to highlight trends in the Company s business which the
Company believes provides useful information to investors. Changes in gross sales are presented
because certain sales adjustments are not assignable to individual product categories. In
addition, certain of the Company s incentive compensation programs are based upon gross sales.
Consequently, gross sales are presented to provide investors information in addition to the GAAP
measure net sales. However, the Company cautions investors to consider gross sales in addition to,
not as a substitute for, net sales presented in accordance with GAAP in the Company s consolidated
statements of income.

A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales,
is as follows:

Reconciliation of Gross Sales to Net Sales: 

Certain sales adjustments are not assignable to the Company s individual product categories.
Consequently, the Company believes that the non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, is useful
supplemental information, is meaningful, and is a more consistent measure than net sales in that
gross sales provides investors a framework with which to compare sales trends in the Company s
product categories which is not available using net sales.

This document also includes a discussion of  gross margin excluding changes in fair value of
foreign currency derivatives  which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Changes in fair value of
foreign currency derivatives are included in cost of goods sold. Such changes (gains or losses)
are recorded based upon the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the value of
the foreign currency derivatives which the Company has purchased as part is its program to mitigate
risks due to fluctuation in currency exchange rates. Gross margin excluding changes in fair value
of foreign currency derivatives is presented to provide investors information in addition to the
GAAP measure, gross profit as a percentage of net sales, as the Company believes that this non-GAAP
measure provides meaningful and useful information regarding the trends in product margins based on
actual production costs, and excluding the non-cash gain or losses from changes in fair value of
foreign currency derivatives. Company management uses this information in reviewing product
margins, in product pricing decisions, and in analyzing product category profitability. However,
the Company cautions investors to consider gross margin excluding changes in fair value of foreign
currency derivatives in addition to, not as a substitute for, gross profit presented in accordance
with GAAP in the Company s consolidated statements of income as a percentage of net sales.

38

Table of Contents   

A reconciliation of gross margin excluding changes in fair value of foreign currency derivatives to
the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, gross profit as a percentage of net sales, is
as follows:

Reconciliation to Gross Profit: 

39

Table of Contents   

Forward-Looking Statements 

This document contains certain statements of a forward-looking nature. Such statements are
made pursuant to the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. Such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to growth and strategies, future
operating and financial results, financial expectations and current business indicators, are based
upon current information and expectations and are subject to change based on factors beyond the
control of the Company. Forward-looking statements typically are identified by the use of terms
such as  look,   may,   will,   should,   might,   believe,   plan,   expect,   anticipate, 
 estimate  and similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently.
The accuracy of such statements may be impacted by a number of business risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or anticipated, including
but not limited to: risks related to the sale of new product introductions in the Company s
electronics category ;  the Company s ability to maintain approved vendor status and continue to
receive product orders from the U.S. military; the Company s ability to integrate and operate
acquisitions; the Company s ability to manage rapid growth; risks related to the limited visibility
of future sunglass orders associated with the Company s  at once  production and fulfillment
business model; the ability to identify qualified manufacturing partners; the ability to coordinate
product development and production processes with those partners; the ability of those
manufacturing partners and the Company s internal production operations to increase production
volumes on raw materials and finished goods in a timely fashion in response to increasing demand
and enable the Company to achieve timely delivery of finished goods to its retail customers; the
ability to provide adequate fixturing to existing and future retail customers to meet anticipated
needs and schedules; the dependence on eyewear sales to Luxottica Group S.p.A, which, as a major
competitor, could materially alter or terminate its relationship with the Company; the Company s
ability to expand and grow its distribution channels and its own retail operations; unanticipated
changes in general market conditions or other factors, which may result in cancellations of advance
orders or a reduction in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; a weakening of economic
conditions could continue to reduce demand for products sold by the Company and could adversely
affect profitability, especially of the Company s retail operations; terrorist acts, or the threat
thereof, could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending, could interrupt production and
distribution of product and raw materials and could, as a result, adversely affect the Company s
operations and financial performance; the ability of the Company to integrate licensing
arrangements without adversely affecting operations and the success of such initiatives; the
ability to continue to develop and produce innovative new products and introduce them in a timely
manner; the acceptance in the marketplace of the Company s new products and changes in consumer
preferences; reductions in sales of products, either as the result of economic or other conditions,
or reduced consumer acceptance of a product, could result in a buildup of inventory; the ability to
source raw materials and finished products at favorable prices to the Company; the potential impact
of periodic power crises on the Company s operations including temporary blackouts at the Company s
facilities; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; earthquakes or other natural disasters;
the Company s ability to identify and successfully execute cost control initiatives; and the impact
of quotas, tariffs, or safeguards on the importation or exportation of the Company s products.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak
only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to update this forward-looking
information. Nonetheless, the Company reserves the right to make such updates from time to time by
press release, periodic report or other method of public disclosure without the need for specific
reference to this press release. No such update shall be deemed to indicate that other statements
not addressed by such update remain correct or create an obligation to provide any other updates.

40

Table of Contents   

Item 7a.     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to market risks, including foreign
currency fluctuations and changes in interest rates. The Company purchases certain derivative
instruments as part of a program to mitigate such risks. Derivative instruments purchased by the
Company are intended as hedges against the Company s assets or liabilities, either current or
forecasted, and are not held for trading or speculative purposes. The Company is also exposed to
credit risk in the event of non-performance by the counterparties of its derivative instruments.
The Company attempts to mitigate such credit risks by purchasing derivative instruments from
respected global financial institutions.

The Company is exposed to a variety of risks, including foreign currency fluctuations and changes
in interest rates affecting the cost of its debt.

Foreign currency 

The Company s subsidiaries outside the United States purchase most of their finished goods in U.S.
dollars and collect money at future dates in the customers  local currencies. Accordingly, the
Company is exposed to transaction gains and losses that could result from changes in foreign
currency exchange rates. (See Note 9 in  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) . As part of
its overall strategy to manage the level of exposure to the risk of fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates, the Company and its subsidiaries use foreign exchange contracts in the
form of forward and option contracts. Changes in the fair value for each of the Company s foreign
exchange contracts not designated as cash flow hedges have been reported in cost of sales and
earnings for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.

The following is a summary of the Company s foreign exchange contracts by currency at December 31,
2005 (in thousands):

The Company purchases, and plans to continue to purchase, foreign exchange contracts as part
of its strategy to manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. These
foreign currency exchange contracts have various terms and maturity dates. Consequently, the total
amount of exchange contracts held may change from one period to another. Also, the Company may,
for various reasons, decide to either expand or reduce the level of foreign exchange contracts it
holds. Based upon the specific foreign currency contracts held at December 31, 2005, if the value
of the U.S. dollar were to hypothetically increase by 5% relative to the foreign currencies which
the Company has hedged with foreign exchange contracts, then gross profit and pre-tax income would
increase by approximately $3.3 million. This change in gross profit and pre-tax income could be
offset, to a greater or lesser extent, by a loss from translating foreign currency income and
expenses into U.S dollars at the hypothetical increased rate.

41

Table of Contents   

The Company has exposure to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its
exchange contracts but has no off-balance sheet credit risk of accounting loss. To mitigate such
credit risks, the Company s derivative instruments are executed with counterparties who are
respected global financial institutions. The Company anticipates that the counterparties will be
able to fully satisfy their obligations under
the contracts. The Company does not obtain collateral or other security to support the forward
exchange contracts subject to credit risk but monitors the credit standing of the counterparties.
At December 31, 2005, outstanding contracts were recorded at fair value and the resulting gains and
losses were recorded in the consolidated financial statements as outlined in Note 9 in  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements .

Interest rates 

The Company s principal line of credit, with no balance outstanding at December 31, 2005, bears
interest at either the Eurodollar Rate (LIBOR) plus 0.75% (5.29% at December 31, 2005) or the
bank s prime lending rate minus 0.25% (7.00% at December 31, 2005). Based on the weighted average
interest rate of 6.26% on the line of credit during the year ended December 31, 2005, if interest
rates on the line of credit were to increase by 10.00%, and to the extent that borrowings were
outstanding, for every $1.0 million outstanding on the Company s line of credit, net income would
be reduced by approximately $4,100 per year.

The Company s ten-year real estate term loan, with a balance of $10.3 million outstanding at
December 31, 2005, bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.00% (5.41% at December 31, 2005) and is due in
September 2007. In January 1999, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement that
eliminates the Company s risk of fluctuations in the variable rate of its long-term loan by fixing
the rate at 6.31%. As of December 31, 2005, the fair value of the Company s interest rate swap
agreement was a loss of approximately $0.1 million.

42

Table of Contents   

Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

Index To Consolidated Financial Statements  

43

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Oakley, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Oakley, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
 Company ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income,
comprehensive income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2005. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed
in the Index at Item 15(a)(2). These consolidated financial statements and the financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Oakley, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2005 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our
report dated March 31, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management s assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion
on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
Costa Mesa, California 
March 31, 2006

44

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

(in thousands, except share and per share data) 

See accompanying  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

45

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

(in thousands, except share and per share data) 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
(in thousands) 

See accompanying  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

46

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

(in thousands, except share data) 

See accompanying  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

47

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

(in thousands) 

See accompanying  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

48

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 1
  Significant Accounting Policies and Description of Business 

Description of Business 

The Company is an innovation-driven designer, manufacturer and distributor of consumer
products that include high-performance eyewear, footwear, watches, apparel and accessories. The
Company believes its principal strength is its ability to develop products that demonstrate
superior performance and aesthetics through proprietary technology and styling. Its designs and
innovations are protected by over 500 patents and over 1,100 trademarks worldwide. The Company
operates in two segments: wholesale and U.S. retail.

Basis of Presentation 

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Principles of Consolidation 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Oakley, Inc. and its subsidiaries
(collectively, the  Company ). Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

Use of Estimates 

The preparation of the Company s consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles necessarily requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities
as of the balance sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting
periods. Actual results could significantly differ from such estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

For purposes of the consolidated financial statements, investments purchased with an original
maturity of three months or less are considered cash equivalents.

Inventories 

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost to purchase and/or manufacture the inventory or the
current estimated market value of the inventory, using the first-in, first-out method. The Company
regularly reviews its inventory quantities on hand and records a provision for excess and obsolete
inventory to appropriately reflect net realizable value for all slow-moving and discontinued
inventory based upon the Company s estimated forecast of product demand and production
requirements. Demand for the Company s products can fluctuate significantly. Many factors that
can affect demand for the Company s products include unanticipated changes in general market
conditions or other factors outside the control of the Company, which may result in cancellations
of advance orders or a reduction in the rate of reorders placed by retailers.

49

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 1
  Significant Accounting Policies and Description of Business (cont d) 

Property and Equipment 

Property and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization.
Depreciation and amortization are provided for using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful lives (generally two to seven years for property and equipment and 39 years for buildings)
of the respective assets or, as to leasehold improvements, the term of the related lease if less
than the estimated useful service life. Beginning with assets acquired in 2004, certain tooling
equipment used for identifiable products is recorded at cost and depreciated over the expected
number of units to be produced.

Derivative Instruments 

The Company designates its derivatives based upon the criteria established by Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities   (SFAS 133), which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative
instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging
activities. SFAS 133, as amended by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 138,
  Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain hedging Activities   an amendment of
SFAS 133   (SFAS 138), and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 149,   Amendment of
Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  (SFAS 149), requires that an entity
recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position
and measure those instruments at fair value. The accounting for the changes in the fair value of
the derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. For a
derivative designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the derivative s fair value
gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Any realized gain or loss on such derivative is reported in cost of goods sold in the accounting
period in which the derivative matures. The fair value gain or loss from the ineffective portion
of the derivative is reported in cost of goods sold immediately. For a derivative that does not
qualify as a cash flow hedge, the change in fair value is recognized at the end of each accounting
period in cost of goods sold.

Long-Lived Assets 

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,   Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets   (SFAS 144), the Company evaluates the carrying value
of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such
carrying values may not be recoverable. Under SFAS 144, the Company estimates the future
undiscounted cash flows derived from an asset to assess whether or not a potential impairment
exists when events or circumstances indicate the carrying value of a long-lived asset may differ.
If the sum of the undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss will
be recognized, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the
asset. The Company uses its best judgment based on the most current facts and circumstances
surrounding its business when applying these impairment rules to determine the timing of the
impairment test, the undiscounted cash flows used to assess impairments and the fair value of a
potentially impaired asset. Changes in assumptions used could have a significant impact on the
Company s assessment of recoverability. Numerous factors, including changes in the Company s
business, industry segment or the global economy could significantly impact management s decision
to retain, dispose of or idle certain of its long-lived assets. No impairments were recorded for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003.

50

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 1
  Significant Accounting Policies and Description of Business (cont d) 

Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,   Goodwill and Intangible
Assets ,  (SFAS No. 142), goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but
are tested for impairment annually and also tested in the event of an impairment indicator. As
required by SFAS No. 142, the Company evaluates the recoverability of goodwill based on a two-step
impairment test. The first step compares the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying
amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds fair value, then the second step of the
impairment test is performed to measure the amount of any impairment loss. Fair value is
determined based on estimated future cash flows, discounted at a rate that approximates the
Company s cost of capital. Such estimates are subject to change and the Company may be required
to recognize impairment losses in the future. The Company completed its annual impairment test for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 at December 31, 2005, and determined that no impairment
loss existed.

Revenue Recognition 

The Company recognizes wholesale revenue when 1) merchandise is shipped to a customer and the risks
and rewards of ownership and title have passed based on the terms of sale, 2) there is evidence of
a contractual arrangement, and 3) collection is reasonably assured. Revenue from the Company s
retail store operations is recognized upon purchase by customers at the point of sale. The Company
also licenses to third parties the rights to certain intellectual property and other proprietary
information and recognizes royalty revenue when earned. Generally, the Company extends credit to
its wholesale customers and does not require collateral. The Company performs ongoing credit
evaluations of those customers and historic credit losses have been within management s
expectations.

The Company s standard sales agreements with its wholesale customers do not provide for any rights
of return by the customer other than returns for product warranty related issues. In addition to
these product warranty related returns, the Company may, at its discretion, accept other returns.
The Company records a provision for estimated future warranty related product returns based upon
historical data. The Company records provisions for other returns or sales discounts based upon
analysis of, and decisions made regarding, reseller inventories in the Company s distribution
channels. Actual returns and claims in any future period may differ from the Company s estimates.

The Company s standard sales agreements with its wholesale customers do not provide for price
protection or margin guarantees. The Company has at times, and at its discretion, provided its
wholesale customers with sales discounts or markdown allowances to assist the sell-through of their
slow moving inventories. The Company records provisions for sales discounts, markdown allowances,
rebates and similar commitments based upon analysis of, and decisions made regarding, reseller
inventories in the Company s distribution channels.

51

Table of Contents   

<!-- link1 "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003" -->

   OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 1
  Significant Accounting Policies and Description of Business (cont d) 

Inventory Sale and Purchase Transactions with the Same Third Party 

In certain cases, in the electronics category, the Company sells eyewear components to a third
party electronics vendor and subsequently purchases finished goods from the same electronics vendor
which contain such eyewear components.

The electronics vendor sells the finished goods through its distribution channels. The electronics
vendor has no right to return eyewear components to the Company. The Company has the right, but
not any obligation, to purchase finished goods from the electronics vendor, at a defined price, for
sale to its own wholesale and retail customers.

Net sales of eyewear components to the electronics vendor are eliminated from the Company s net
sales to the extent that the Company has purchased, or intends to purchase, finished goods from the
electronics vendor. Eyewear components sold to the electronics vendor which the Company intends to
purchase as part of finished goods are maintained on the Company s balance sheet as consignment
inventory held by the electronics vendor.

Finished
goods purchased by the Company are placed into inventory at cost, calculated as the invoice
value from the electronics vendor less the Company s margin on the sale of the related eyewear
components to such vendor. The Company recognizes the sale of the finished goods, and relieves
related inventory, when such finished goods are sold by the Company to its wholesale or retail
customers.

Shipping and Handling Costs 

Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling fees are included in net sales. Freight
costs incurred related to these fees are included in cost of sales and other warehousing costs are
included in shipping and warehousing.

Financial Instruments 

The carrying amounts of financial instruments, consisting of cash and cash equivalents, trade
accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short period of time
between origination of the instruments and their expected realization. Management also believes
the carrying amount of balances outstanding under the credit agreements approximate fair value as
the underlying interest rates reflect market rates.

Accounts Receivable 

The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based
upon payment history and the customer s current creditworthiness, as determined by the Company s
review of their current credit information. The Company regularly monitors its customers 
collections and payments and maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the Company s
historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that have been identified. While
such bad debt losses have historically been within the expectations and the provisions established
by the Company, there can be no assurances that the Company will continue to experience the same
bad debt loss rates that have been experienced in the past. In addition, costs associated with
customer markdowns are included as a reduction to both net sales and accounts receivable.

52

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 1
  Significant Accounting Policies and Description of Business (cont d) 

Insurance Coverage 

The Company is partially self-insured for its workers  compensation insurance coverage. Under this
insurance program, the Company is liable for a deductible of $250,000 for each individual claim and
an aggregate annual liability of $2,398,500 for claims incurred during the current policy period.
The Company records a liability for the actuarially estimated cost of claims both reported, and
incurred but not reported, based upon its historical experience. The estimated costs include the
estimated future cost of all open claims. The Company will continue to adjust the estimates as its
actual experience dictates. A significant change in the number or dollar amount of claims or other
actuarial assumptions could cause the Company to revise its estimate of potential losses and affect
its reported results.

Warranties 

The Company provides warranties from 30 days to one year, depending on the product line, against
manufacturer s defects on its products when purchased from an authorized Oakley dealer.

The Company s standard warranties require the Company to repair or replace defective product
returned to the Company during such warranty period with proof of purchase from an authorized
Oakley dealer. The Company maintains a reserve for its product warranty liability based on
estimates calculated using historical warranty experience. While warranty costs have historically
been within the Company s expectations, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to
experience the same warranty return rates or repair costs as in prior years. A significant
increase in product warranty rates, or a significant increase in the costs to repair product, could
have a material adverse impact on the Company s operating results.

Warranty liability activity for the years ended December 31, was as follows:

53

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 1
  Significant Accounting Policies and Description of Business (cont d) 

Income Taxes 

Current income tax expense is the amount of income taxes expected to be payable for the current
year. A deferred income tax asset or liability is established for the expected future consequences
of temporary differences in the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The
Company considers future taxable income and ongoing, prudent and feasible tax planning strategies
in assessing the value of its deferred tax assets. If the Company determines that it is more
likely than not that these assets will not be realized, the Company will reduce the value of these
assets to their expected realizable value, thereby decreasing net income. Evaluating the value of
these assets is necessarily based on the Company s judgment. If the Company subsequently
determined that the deferred tax assets, which had been written down, would be realized in the
future, the value of the deferred tax assets would be increased, thereby increasing net income in
the period when that determination was made.

The Company believes that it has adequately provided for income tax issues not yet resolved with
federal, state and foreign tax authorities. At December 31, 2005, $2.8 million was accrued for
such matters. Although not probable, an adverse resolution of these issues could result in
additional charges to earnings in future periods. Based upon a consideration of all relevant facts
and circumstances, the Company does not believe the ultimate resolution of tax issues for all open
tax periods will have a materially adverse effect upon its results of operations or financial
condition.

Foreign Currency Translation 

The Company s subsidiaries outside the United States purchase most of their finished goods in U.S.
dollars and collect money at future dates in the customers  local currencies. Accordingly, the
Company is exposed to transaction gains and losses that could result from changes in foreign
currency exchange rates. Assets and liabilities of the Company denominated in foreign currencies
are translated at the rate of exchange on the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are
translated using the average exchange rate for the period. Gains and losses from translation of
foreign subsidiary financial statements are included in accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss). Gains and losses on short-term intercompany foreign currency transactions are recognized
as incurred. As part of the Company s overall strategy to manage its level of exposure to the risk
of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the Company and its subsidiaries have entered
into various foreign exchange contracts in the form of forward and option contracts. Such forward
exchange contracts are accounting for under the guidelines of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   (SFAS 133).

54

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 1
  Significant Accounting Policies and Description of Business (cont d) 

Comprehensive Income 

Comprehensive income (loss) represents the results of operations adjusted to reflect all items
recognized under accounting standards as components of comprehensive earnings.

The components of comprehensive income (loss) for the Company include net income, unrealized gains
or losses on an interest rate swap, and foreign currency translation adjustments. The components
of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, are as follows:

Stock-Based Compensation 

The Company accounts for stock-based awards to employees using the intrinsic value method in
accordance with Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,   Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees ,  under which no compensation expense is recognized for stock option awards granted with
exercise prices at fair market value on the date of grant. Accordingly, no compensation expense
has been recognized in the Company s consolidated financial statements for incentive and
non-qualified stock options granted to employees as the exercise price is equal to the market price
on the date of grant. Stock based awards to non-employees are accounted for using the fair value
method in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,   Accounting for
Stock Based Compensation   (SFAS 123).

Stock Options 

Under SFAS 123, the Company is required to provide pro forma information showing what net income
would have been if the fair value of awards to employees had been amortized over the vesting
period. For this information, the fair value is calculated through the use of option-pricing
models, even though such models were developed to estimate the fair value of freely tradable, fully
transferable options without vesting restrictions, which significantly differ from the Company s
stock option awards. These models also require subjective assumptions, including, among others,
future stock price volatility and expected time to exercise, which greatly affect the calculated
values. The Company s calculations were made using the Binomial option-pricing model with the
following weighted average assumptions:

55

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 1
  Significant Accounting Policies and Description of Business (cont d) 

In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company evaluated its Binomial option pricing model which
resulted in adjustments to the variables used in the computation of the fair value of its options.
The expected volatility assumption was changed from being based solely on historical volatility to
being based on a weighted average of historical and implied volatility from traded options on the
Company s stock as it believes that implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and
a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility. Additionally, the Company s
expected life assumption, which was previously based solely on historical exercise behavior, was
adjusted to reflect both the option s contractual term and the effects of employees  expected
exercise behavior and expected post-vesting employment-termination behavior to be more
representative of future exercise patterns.

If the fair value of the 2005, 2004 and 2003 awards had been amortized to expense over the vesting
period of the awards, net income would have been as follows:

In March 2004, the Compensation and Stock Option Committee of the Company s Board of Directors
approved the accelerated vesting, as of December 31, 2004, of all unvested stock options that have
an exercise price greater than $15.70. This accelerated vesting affected approximately 1,242,000
common stock options with a weighted average exercise price of $17.62. This acceleration resulted
in the recognition of additional stock-based employee compensation of approximately $0.4 million,
net of taxes, in the 2004 pro forma disclosure above and eliminates future compensation expense of
approximately $0.7 million that the Company would otherwise have recognized in its statements of
income with respect to these options when Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R
  Share-Based Payment   (SFAS 123R) becomes effective on January 1, 2006. No stock-based
compensation pursuant to APB Opinion No. 25 was recorded in the Company s consolidated financial
statements as a result of the acceleration.

56

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 1
  Significant Accounting Policies and Description of Business (cont d) 

On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS 123R which became
effective for the Company s fiscal year beginning January 1, 2006. The new standard will require
the Company to record compensation expense for stock options using a fair value method.
Under SFAS 123R, the Company must determine the appropriate fair value model to be used for
valuing share-based payments, the amortization method for compensation cost and the transition
method to be used at the date of adoption. The transition methods include modified prospective and
modified retrospective adoption options. Under the modified retrospective option, prior periods may
be restated either as of the beginning of the year of adoption or for all periods presented. The
modified prospective method requires that compensation expense be recorded for all unvested stock
options at the beginning of the first quarter of adoption of SFAS 123R. The Company will adopt SFAS
123R in its first quarter of fiscal year 2006 on a modified prospective basis, which will require
recognition of compensation expense for all stock option or other equity-based awards that vest or
become exercisable after the effective date. Based on the Company s unvested options at December
31, 2005, stock-based compensation expense due to the adoption of SFAS 123R is estimated to be
approximately $1.7 million for 2006.

Earnings Per Share 

Basic earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares vested and
outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding, including the dilutive effect of potential common
shares outstanding. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the diluted weighted
average common shares outstanding included 829,000, 657,000, and 276,000 respectively, of dilutive
stock options and non vested restricted shares. For the years ended 2005, 2004, and 2003, stock
options of 1,160,000, 1,364,000 and 2,940,000, respectively, were excluded because their effect
would be anti-dilutive.

Advertising Costs 

The Company advertises primarily through print media, catalogs and direct marketing. The Company s
policy is to expense advertising costs associated with print media on the date the print media is
released to the public. Costs associated with catalogs and direct mail materials are expensed as
they are shipped to the Company s customers. Advertising costs also include posters and other
point-of-purchase materials which are expensed as incurred. Advertising expenses for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $20.5 million, $18.4 million and $17.6 million,
respectively.

57

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 1
  Significant Accounting Policies and Description of Business (cont d) 

Customer Concentrations 

Net sales to the retail group of Luxottica, which include Sunglass Hut locations worldwide, were
approximately 7.0%, 7.6% and 8.9% of the Company s net sales for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively. Luxottica is also one of the Company s largest competitors in the
sunglass and optical frame markets. In December 2004, the Company and Luxottica entered into a
commercial agreement that established the terms applicable for 2005 between the two companies. The
term of the commercial agreement expired at the end of 2005. The Company is currently engaged in
discussions with Luxottica to establish a new commercial agreement, but there can be no assurances
as to the future of its relationship with Luxottica or the likelihood that a new contract will be
executed. During the past several years, Luxottica has acquired certain customers of the Company
which, in some cases, has adversely impacted the Company s net sales to such customers. There can
be no assurance that the recent acquisitions or future acquisitions by Luxottica, or the lack of a
contract with Luxottica, will not have a material adverse impact on the Company s financial
position or results of operations.

Supplier Concentrations 

In 2005, the Company executed a new exclusive agreement with a supplier that is the Company s
single source for the supply of uncoated lens blanks from which a majority of its sunglass lenses
are cut. In the event of the loss of this supplier, the Company has identified an alternate
source. There can be no assurance that, if necessary, an additional source of supply for lens
blanks or other critical materials could be located or developed in a timely manner. The effect of
the loss of any of these sources (including any possible disruption in business) will depend
primarily upon the length of time necessary to find and use a suitable alternative source and could
have a material adverse impact on the Company s business. If the Company were to lose the source
for its lens blanks or other critical materials, it could have a materially adverse effect on the
Company s business.

New Accounting Pronouncements 

In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151,   Inventory
Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4,   (SFAS 151) to clarify the accounting guidance
related to abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material
(spoilage) costs. SFAS No. 151 specifies that these costs should be recognized as current period
charges, and that fixed production overhead should be allocated to inventory based on normal
capacity of production facilities. The provisions of SFAS No. 151 are effective for fiscal years
beginning January 1, 2006. The Company has evaluated the provisions of SFAS 151 and has determined
that the adoption will not have a material impact on the overall results of its operations or
financial position.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R and in March 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107) regarding the SEC Staff s interpretation of FAS 123R. See  Stock-Based
Compensation  within Note 1 above for further discussion.

58

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 1
  Significant Accounting Policies and Description of Business (cont d) 

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,   Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  , which
replaces APB Opinion No. 20,   Accounting Changes  , and SFAS No. 3,   Reporting Accounting Changes in
Interim Financial Statements   (SFAS 154). SFAS 154 changes the requirements for the accounting
for, and reporting of, a change in accounting principle. Previously, voluntary changes in
accounting principles were generally required to be recognized by way of a cumulative effect
adjustment within net income during the period of the change. SFAS 154 requires retroactive
application to prior periods  financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine either
the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS 154 is effective for
accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2005. The Company does not believe adoption of SFAS 154 will have a material effect on its
financial position, cash flows or results of operations.

Reclassification s

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. The
Company reclassified credit card fees incurred in connection with customer transactions at the
Company s retail stores and in direct sales operations from general and administrative expense into
selling expense to be more consistent with industry practice of accounting for retail stores. For
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company reclassified $1.6 million and $1.2 million,
respectively of credit card fees. These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported
results of operations, retained earnings or net cash provided by operating activities.

Note 2
  Inventories 

Inventories at December 31, consist of the following:

Note 3
  Property and Equipment 

Property and equipment at December 31, consist of the following:

59

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 4
  Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets are tested for impairment at
least annually and more frequently if an event occurs that indicates that goodwill or intangible
assets may be impaired. The Company completed its annual impairment test for the fiscal years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and determined that no impairment loss existed.

Included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated financial statements are the following
amortizing intangible assets.

Intangible assets other than goodwill are amortized by the Company using estimated useful
lives of 5 to 15 years and no residual values. Intangible amortization expense for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was approximately $1.3 million for each year. Annual estimated
amortization expense, based on the Company s intangible assets at December 31, 2005, is as follows:

Changes in goodwill are as follows:

(1) 
       
     Reflects acquisitions made by the Company s Iacon subsidiary. 

60

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 5
  Accrued Liabilities 

Accrued liabilities consist of the following:

At December 31, 2004, the value of the Company s derivative contracts reflected an unfavorable
loss of $9.4 million which the Company recorded in accrued liabilities on its balance sheets.
Conversely, at December 31, 2005, the value of the Company s derivative contracts, other than its
interest rate swap agreement, reflected a favorable gain of $4.3 million which the Company recorded
in prepaid expenses and other assets on its balance sheets.

Note 6
  Income Taxes 

The Company s income before income tax provision was subject to taxes in the following
jurisdictions for the years ended December 31:

The provision (benefit) for income taxes for the years ended December 31, consists of the
following:

61

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 6
  Income Taxes (cont d) 

No provision has been made for U.S. Federal, state or additional foreign income taxes which would
be due upon the actual or deemed distribution of approximately $35.1 million of undistributed
earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005, which have been or are intended to be
permanently reinvested.

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  AJCA ), provides a deduction for income from qualified
domestic production activities that is phased in over the calendar years 2005 to 2010. In 2005,
the deduction is equal to 3.0% of qualifying income on qualified production gross receipts. The
AJCA provides for a two-year phase-out of the existing Extraterritorial Income (ETI) deduction that
was repealed as a result of a ruling by the World Trade Organization. For 2005, the phase-out
provision limits the Company s benefit to 80.0% of the calculated amount. The Company has taken
both these law changes into consideration in calculating the income tax provision.

The AJCA also provided for a one-time election to claim an 85.0% dividends received deduction
related to the repatriation of foreign earnings. Based upon the Company s internal analysis and
after evaluation, the Company decided to not repatriate any foreign earnings under the provisions
of AJCA for various business reasons.

A reconciliation of income tax expense computed at U.S. Federal statutory rates to income tax
expense for the years ended December 31, is as follows:

Certain wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries have generated net operating losses within the
foreign jurisdictions in which they operate. Total net operating losses, which relate to
continuing operations in Latin America, Germany and South Pacific, were approximately $15,401,000
as of December 31, 2005, $15,288,000 as of December 31, 2004 and $10,121,000 as of December 31,
2003. Approximately $9,159,000 of the net operating loss balance as of December 31, 2005 relates
to Latin America and will begin to expire on December 31, 2006. The remaining $6,241,000 of the
net operating loss balance at December 31, 2005, which relates to Germany and South Pacific, will
carry forward indefinitely. The Company s wholly-owned subsidiary in Mexico has generated tax
credits related to asset taxes paid in lieu of income taxes. These credits, approximately $186,000
on December 31, 2005, $149,000 on December 31, 2004 and $120,000 on December 31, 2003, will begin
to expire on December 31, 2009. The Company has included a valuation allowance against the entire
balance of net operating losses and tax credits at December 31, 2005, as it cannot estimate if
these attributes will be utilized in the foreseeable future.

62

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 6
  Income Taxes (cont d) 

The deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income
tax purposes. Significant components of the Company s deferred tax assets and liabilities at
December 31, are as follows:

The Company believes it has adequately provided for income tax issues not yet resolved with
Federal, state and foreign tax authorities. At December 31, 2005, $2.8 million was accrued for
such matters. Although not probable, the adverse resolution of these issues could result in
additional charges to earnings in future periods. Based upon a consideration of all relevant facts
and circumstances, the Company does not believe the ultimate resolution of tax issues for all open
tax periods will have a materially adverse effect upon its results of operations or financial
condition.

63

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 6
  Income Taxes (cont d) 

On August 2, 2004, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) notified the Company of a proposed audit
adjustment related to advance payment agreements it executed in December 2000 with its foreign
sales corporation, Oakley International Inc., and two wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries, Oakley UK
and Oakley Europe. This adjustment resulted from the IRS audit for the tax years ended December 31,
2000 and 2001. The adjustment could result in additional tax liability and penalties of
approximately $11.2 million. The Company believes that its position with respect to this issue will ultimately prevail on its
merits and therefore does not expect to pay the additional tax and penalties reflected in this
adjustment. The Company is continuing to protest this adjustment with the IRS and intends to
continue to assert and defend its position through applicable IRS administrative and/or judicial
procedures. In the event that the
Company does not prevail under protest, management expects that the adjustments should not have a
material impact on the Company s financial results because the Company has insurance in place which
it believes will cover such adjustment and any associated expenses. Accordingly, the Company has
not provided any amounts in its financial statements for the settlement of this matter.

Note 7
  Debt 

Line of Credit 

In August 2004, the Company amended its credit facilities with a bank syndicate. The amended
credit facilities allow for borrowings up to $75 million and mature in September 2007. Borrowings
under the credit facilities are unsecured and bear interest at either the Eurodollar Rate (LIBOR)
plus 0.75% (5.29% at December 31, 2005) or the bank s prime lending rate minus 0.25% (7.00% at
December 31, 2005). At December 31, 2005, the Company did not have any balance outstanding under
the credit facilities. The amended credit facilities contain various restrictive covenants
including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. At December 31, 2005, the Company was in
compliance with all restrictive covenants and financial ratios. Certain of the Company s foreign
subsidiaries have negotiated local lines of credit to provide working capital financing. These
foreign lines of credit bear interest at rates ranging from 0.74% to 6.10%. Some of the Company s
foreign subsidiaries have bank overdraft accounts that renew annually and bear interest at rates
ranging from 2.86% to 10.50%. The aggregate borrowing limit on the foreign lines of credit and
overdraft accounts is $26.6 million, of which $11.3 million was outstanding at December 31, 2005.

Long-Term Debt 

The Company has a real estate term loan with an outstanding balance of $10.3 million at December
31, 2005, which matures in September 2007. The term loan, which is collateralized by the Company s
corporate headquarters, requires quarterly principal payments of approximately $380,000 ($1,519,000
annually), plus interest based upon LIBOR plus 1.00% (5.41% at December 31, 2005). In January
1999, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement that hedges the Company s risk of
fluctuations in the variable rate of its long-term debt by fixing the interest rate over the term
of the note at 6.31%. As of December 31, 2005, the fair value of the Company s interest rate swap
agreement was a loss of approximately $0.1 million.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company also has a non-interest bearing note payable in the amount of
$0.5 million, net of discounts, in connection with its acquisition of Iacon, Inc. Payment under
the note is due in 2006, with such payments contingent upon certain conditions.

64

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 7
  Debt (cont d) 

The following schedule lists the Company s scheduled annual principal payments on its long-term
debt:

Note 8
  Commitments and Contingencies 

Operating Leases 

The Company is committed under noncancelable operating leases expiring at various dates through
2022 for certain offices, warehouse facilities, retail stores, production facilities and
distribution centers. The following is a schedule of future minimum lease payments required under
such leases as of December 31, 2005:

Substantially all of the retail segment leases require the Company to pay maintenance,
insurance, property taxes and percentage rent ranging up to 9% based on sales volumes over certain
minimum sales levels.

Rent expense for the years ended December 31, is summarized as follows:

65

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 8
  Commitments and Contingencies (cont d) 

Purchase Commitments 

In 2005, the Company executed a new exclusive five-year agreement with a supplier that is the
Company s single source for the supply of uncoated lens blanks from which a majority of its
sunglass lenses are cut. The agreement s new terms are effective April 1, 2005 and replace the
parties  previous agreement. This new agreement gives the Company the exclusive right to purchase
decentered sunglass lenses from the supplier in return for the Company s agreement to fulfill the
majority of its lens requirements from such supplier, subject to certain conditions. The Company
has expanded its in-house lens blank production capabilities to manufacture some portion of its
lenses directly if needed, which is permitted under the agreement as long as the Company continues
to satisfy an annual minimum purchase amount.

Employment and Consulting Agreements 

On September 19, 2005, the Company entered into an employment agreement with D. Scott Olivet
pursuant to which Mr. Olivet will serve as Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Oakley
effective as of September 19, 2005 and has a term expiring on December 31, 2010.

In 2004, the Company adopted two severance plans for the benefit of its officers that provide for,
among other things, upon the termination of employment by the Company, (i) payment of a designated
percentage of base salary and pro rata bonus; (ii) extension of Company-paid medical and benefits;
and (iii) limited acceleration of vesting with respect to options. Additionally in 2004, the
Company entered into a severance agreement with one of its officers to provide for certain benefits
in exchange for the cancellation of his employment agreement.

Endorsement Contracts 

The Company has entered into endorsement contracts with selected athletes and others who endorse
the Company s products. The contracts are primarily of short duration. Under the contracts, the
Company has agreed to pay certain incentives based on performance and is required to pay minimum
annual payments as listed below. The estimated maximum amount that could be paid under existing
contracts is approximately $12.1 million and would assume that all achievements are met.

Many of these contracts provide incentives based upon specific achievements. The actual
amounts paid under these contracts may be higher or lower than the amounts listed as a result of
the variable nature of these obligations. Such expenses are an ordinary part of the Company s
business and the Company does not believe that the payment of these performance awards will have a
material adverse effect upon the Company.

66

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 8
  Commitments and Contingencies (cont d) 

Indemnities, Commitments and Guarantees 

During its normal course of business, the Company has made certain indemnities, commitments and
guarantees under which it may be required to make payments in relation to certain transactions.
These indemnities include indemnities to the Company s customers in connection with the sales of
its products, indemnities to various lessors in connection with facility leases for certain claims
arising from such facility or lease, indemnities to directors and officers of the Company to the
maximum extent permitted under the laws of the State of Washington, and routine guarantees between
the Company and its subsidiaries. At December 31, 2005, the Company has outstanding letters of
credit totaling $8.4 million for product purchases and as security for contingent liabilities under
certain workers  compensation insurance policies. The durations of these indemnities, commitments
and guarantees vary. Some of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees do not provide for any
limitation of the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make. It is
not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due
to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances
involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made related to these
indemnifications have been immaterial. At December 31, 2005, the Company has determined that no
liability is necessary related to these indemnities, commitments and guarantees.

Litigation 

The Company is a party to various claims, complaints and litigation incidental to the Company s
business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate resolution of such matters, individually and
in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on the accompanying consolidated
financial statements.

The United Kingdom s Office of Fair Trading (OFT) is in the process of conducting an investigation
of an Oakley subsidiary, for conduct under the United Kingdom Competition Act of 1998. In November
2005, the OFT issued a Statement of Objections, alleging that our subsidiary wrongfully restricted
resale prices for its sunglasses at one of its accounts. Oakley refutes the allegation, however
there can be no assurance that the Company s position will prevail on this matter. In the event of
an unfavorable outcome, the Company may be obligated to pay fines relating to its products sold.
At this time the Company is unable to estimate its potential liability, if any. Presently, based
upon advice from legal counsel, the Company believes that any liability for this matter would be
immaterial.

Note 9
  Derivative Financial Instruments 

The Company is exposed to gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates relating to transactions of its international subsidiaries as well as fluctuations in its
variable rate debt. As part of its overall strategy to manage the level of exposure to the risk of
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the Company and its subsidiaries use foreign
exchange contracts in the form of forward and option contracts. In addition, as part of its
overall strategy to manage the level of exposure to the risk of fluctuations in interest rates, in
January 1999, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement that resulted in a fixed
interest rate of 6.31% over the remaining term of the Company s ten-year real estate term loan.

67

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY,
INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 9
  Derivative Financial Instruments (cont d) 

The Company accounts for derivative instruments pursuant to SFAS 133. All derivative instruments,
whether designated as cash flow hedges or not, are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
For all qualifying and highly effective cash flow hedges, the change in the fair value of the
derivative is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. For foreign currency derivative
instruments not designated as cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of the derivative is
recognized in each accounting period in cost of goods sold. Any realized gains and losses on such
derivatives are recognized in cost of goods sold in the period the derivative instrument matures.

As of December 31, 2005, the fair value of the Company s interest rate swap, which is designated as
a cash flow hedge under SFAS 133, was a loss of approximately $0.1 million. The fair value of the
Company s foreign currency contracts at December 31, 2005, which are not designated as cash flow
hedges, was a gain of approximately $4.3 million.

The following is a summary of the foreign currency contracts outstanding by currency at December
31, 2005 (in thousands):

The Company has exposure to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to
its exchange contracts but has no off-balance sheet credit risk of accounting loss. To mitigate
such credit risks, the Company s derivative instruments are executed with counterparties who are
respected global financial institutions. The Company anticipates that the counterparties will be
able to fully satisfy their obligations under the contracts. The Company does not obtain
collateral or other security to support the forward exchange contracts subject to credit risk but
monitors the credit standing of the counterparties. At December 31, 2005, outstanding contracts
were recorded at fair value and the resulting gains and losses were recorded in the consolidated
financial statements pursuant to the policy set forth above.

68

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC.    and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 10   Shareholders  Equity 

Stock Repurchase 

During 2005, the Company purchased 864,525 shares of its Common Stock at an aggregate cost of
approximately $11.8 million, or an average price of $13.64. In 2005, 405,840 shares were
repurchased under the remaining authorization from a stock repurchase program previously
authorized. The remaining 458,685 shares were purchased under the $20.0 million repurchase program
approved by the Company s Board of Directors in March 2005. As of December 31, 2005, approximately
$13.7 million
remains available for repurchases under the current authorization with total common shares
outstanding of 69,153,000. The Company intends to continue to remain active with its share
repurchase program should the right market conditions exist.

Stock Incentive Plan 

The Company s Amended and Restated 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) provides for stock-based
incentive awards, including incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock
shares, performance shares, stock appreciation rights and deferred stock to Company officers,
employees, advisors and consultants. A committee of the Board of Directors administers the Plan
and has the authority to determine the employees to whom awards will be made, the amount of the
awards and the other terms and conditions of the awards. A total of 8,712,000 shares have been
reserved for issuance under the Plan and at December 31, 2005, approximately 974,000 shares were
available for issuance pursuant to new stock option grants or other equity awards.

Under the Plan, stock options are, in most cases, granted at an exercise price equal to the quoted
market price of the Company s stock at the time of grant. These options vest over periods ranging
from one to five years and expire ten years after the grant date. At December 31, 2005, stock
options for 1,998,778 shares were exercisable at prices ranging from $5.56 to $25.10.

Stock option activity for each for the three fiscal years ended December 31, was as follows:

69

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC.    and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 10   Shareholders  Equity (cont d) 

Additional information regarding options outstanding as of December 31, 2005 is as follows:

During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded stock
compensation expense of $17,000, $16,000 and $11,000, respectively, associated with the fair value
of stock options issued to non-employees.

The Company also grants restricted stock awards under its 1995 Stock Incentive Plan that entitles
the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests. Recipients of restricted shares are
entitled to cash dividends upon vesting and to vote their respective shares throughout the
restriction period. During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company granted 296,017
and 312,500 restricted shares, respectively, to employees, members of its Board of Directors and
consultants at a weighted average fair value of $15.79 and $14.98 per share, respectively. The
Company expenses the value of its restricted stock over the estimated or scheduled vesting period
of the stock based upon the market value on the date of the grant. During the years ended December
31, 2005 and 2004, the Company recognized approximately $1.6 million and $0.8 million,
respectively, in expense related to these restricted stock grants, net of forfeitures.

Note 11   Employee Benefit Plan 

The Company maintains a voluntary employee savings plan under Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code (401(k) Plan) for all domestic employees with at least six months of service. The
Plan is funded by employee contributions with the Company matching a portion of the employee
contribution. Company contributions to the 401 (k) Plan were approximately $1.0 million, $0.9
million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and is
included in general and administrative expenses.

70

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC.    and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 12   Related Party Information 

The Company has entered into agreements over the last three fiscal years with companies in which
its Chairman owns or has a controlling interest.

Aircraft Lease 

In 2003, the Company had leased an aircraft from N2T, Inc. (N2T), an Oregon corporation owned by
Jim Jannard, Chairman of the Board of Oakley under which the Company was to make aggregate annual
lease payments of $90,000, as well as bear all costs and expenses of operating and maintaining the
aircraft. Due to operational issues, Mr. Jannard returned the plane to the manufacturer in late
2003 and received a loaned plane to be used until a new plane was received. The Company
subsequently terminated the lease agreement and in December 2003, entered into a new aircraft lease
agreement where the Company is responsible only for the costs and expenses of operating and
maintaining the loaned plane, and is not responsible for making any lease payments for its use of
the aircraft. In September 2005, the Company entered into the First Amendment to Aircraft Lease
(First Amendment) with N2T wherein, effective June 1, 2005, the Company will make
aggregate annual rent and maintenance payments of approximately $0.2 million in to N2T. At such
time that N2T received a new plane from the manufacturer, the First Amendment automatically
terminated and the provisions of the original aircraft lease shall govern. For the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2003, the Company paid approximately
$0.1 million and $0.1, million respectively, to
N2T for the rental and maintenance fees on such aircraft. The Company made no lease or rental
payments to N2T during 2004. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company incurred approximately $0.9
million, $1.8 million and $1.7 million, respectively, in costs and expenses associated with the
aircraft. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, Mr. Jannard reimbursed the Company approximately $1.4 million,
$0.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively, for the Company s operating costs related to his
personal use of this aircraft.

Additionally, in March 2004, the Company and N2T entered into an Agreement and Mutual Release which
provides that the Company shall be responsible for the payment of all ownership, personal property,
use or similar tax and fees arising out of or in connection with the Company s use of the aircraft,
up to an aggregate of $125,000 per year. All remaining taxes will be borne by N2T.

Trademark License Agreement 

The Company has a trademark license agreement with a limited liability company that is wholly-owned
by Mr. Jannard (the LLC). Pursuant to this agreement, the LLC has assigned to the Company its
right to purchase a truck and trailer to travel the National Hot Rod Association (NHRA) circuit and
to sell certain products at NHRA sanctioned events and has agreed to place Oakley s logo in
prominent places on the automobile and crew members  uniforms. The agreement additionally provides
certain rights in connection with the LLC s sponsorship of Don Schumacher Racing, whereby the LLC
will work with Schumacher in the entry of a funny car driven by Gary Scelzi and will provide the
Schumacher race team with Oakley products, including sunglasses, apparel and accessories. During
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company paid approximately $0.1 million each
year for the placement of the Company s trademarks on, and related marketing activities in
connection with this agreement.

71

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC.    and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 12   Related Party Information (cont d) 

Reimbursable Cost 

The Company periodically incurs costs on Mr. Jannard s behalf for various personal matters
unrelated to the business of Oakley. Mr. Jannard has a deposit with the Company to prepay any such
items that is replenished on an ongoing basis as needed. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the
Company s net liability to Mr. Jannard for such deposit was approximately $19,800 and $207,800,
respectively.

Note 13   Segment and Geographic Information 

The Company evaluates its operations in two reportable segments: wholesale and U.S. retail. The
wholesale segment consists of the design, manufacture and distribution of the Company s products to
wholesale customers in the U.S. and internationally, together with all direct consumer sales other
than those through Company-owned U.S. retail store operations. The U.S. retail segment reflects
the operations of the Company-owned specialty retail stores located throughout the United States.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of
significant accounting policies. The Company evaluates performance and allocates resources of
segments based on net sales and operating income, which represents income before interest and
income taxes. Segment net sales and operating income for the Company s wholesale operations
include Oakley product sales to its subsidiaries at transfer price and other intercompany corporate
charges. Segment net sales and operating income for the Company s U.S. retail operations include
Oakley product sales to its Iacon subsidiary at transfer price, and sales to the Company s retail
stores at cost. The U.S. retail segment operating income excludes any allocations for corporate
operating expenses as these expenses are included in the wholesale segment.

Financial information for the Company s reportable segments is as follows (in thousands):

72

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC.    and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 13   Segment and Geographic Information (cont d) 

The following table sets forth sales by segment (in thousands):

Geographical regions representing 10% or more of consolidated net sales are summarized as
follows:

The Company s identifiable assets by geographical region are as follows:

73

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC.    and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 13   Segment and Geographic Information (cont d) 

The Company derives revenues from different product lines within its segments. Gross sales from
external customers for each product line are as follows:

Other consists of revenue derived from the sales of sunglass and goggle accessories, shipping
and handling fees charged to customers, sales of equipment, and sales of sunglass brands other than
those owned or licensed by the Company at the Company s specialty eyewear retail stores.

Note 14   Restructure Charge 

A restructure charge of $2.8 million ($1.8 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, on an after-tax
basis) was recorded during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 to restructure (the Restructuring
Plan) the Company s European operations with significant changes to the regional sales and
distribution organization. Pursuant to an approval of the Company s Board of Directors in December
2002, relationships with several outside sales agents were modified or terminated, and changes were
implemented to rationalize other warehousing and distribution functions within the European
markets. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had paid or settled all of the expenses associated
with the Restructuring Plan.

74

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC.    and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 14   Restructure Charge (cont d) 

This charge was included in selling and shipping and warehousing expenses and is comprised of the
following components (in thousands):

75

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC.    and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 15   Subsequent Events 

On February 8, 2006, the Company announced the acquisition of privately-held Oliver Peoples, Inc.,
which designs, produces and sells luxury eyewear. Through this acquisition, Oakley acquired Oliver
Peoples  three eyewear brands: Oliver Peoples     , Mosley Tribes     , and the
licensed Paul Smith      eyewear brand. The aggregate purchase price of up to $55.7
million, subject to post closing adjustments, includes the assumption of approximately $5.0 million
of debt and up to $4.0 million in earn-out incentives.

In connection with the acquisition of Oliver Peoples, the Company amended its existing credit
facilities with a bank syndicate. The amended credit facilities allow the acquisition of Oliver
Peoples to be excluded from the calculated maximum of permitted acquisitions during the term of the
credit facilities.

On March 14, 2006, the Company announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to purchase all
of the outstanding stock of the privately held Optical Shop of Aspen and its parent company OSA
Holding, Inc. The Optical Shop of Aspen operates 14 luxury optical retail locations. The Company
expects to close this transaction before June 30, 2006.

Note 16   Unaudited Quarterly Financial Data 

In March 2006, management determined that the Company s previous accounting for its foreign
currency derivative instruments as qualifying cash flow hedges did not comply with SFAS 133 due to
lack of sufficient documentation at the inception of the hedges. As a result, the Company
determined that the derivatives did not qualify for hedge accounting. The Company restated the
consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, in its
Amendment No. 1 to its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 31, 2006. The
Company intends to file amendments to its Form s 10-Q for
the quarterly periods ended March 31,
2005, June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005 to include
restated interim financial statements for 2005 and 2004, as soon as practicable, and has restated the unaudited
quarterly financial data within this footnote. The cumulative impact on net income over the life
of each derivative instrument is the same under both the fair value (restated) and hedge (previous)
accounting treatments, however this restatement will change net income within the various reporting
periods covered   increasing in some periods and decreasing in other periods.

This change in the accounting for its derivative instruments had no impact on the Company s
net sales, net cash flows, cash balances, debt covenant compliance or dividends.

Management also determined that the previously reported diluted weighted average common share
information as of March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2005 and March 31, June 30, September 30, and
December 31, 2004 was overstated by immaterial amounts, as the Company did not correctly apply the treasury stock method
for calculating earnings per share with respect to the non-vested portion of the restricted stock
shares. The table below reflects corrected information regarding
diluted weighted average shares.

76

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC.    and SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

Note 16   Unaudited Quarterly Financial Data (cont d) 

(1) 
       
     Amounts for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 have not been restated and therefore there is
no change from the amounts previously reported. 

77

Table of Contents   

Item 9.   
       
       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting   
  and Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.     Controls and Procedures  

Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

The Company s management, with the participation of the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer ,  has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and
procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act as of
the end of the period covered by this report. Based on such evaluation, the Company s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end of such period,
the Company s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in recording, processing,
summarizing and reporting, on a timely basis, information required to be disclosed by the Company
in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act and are effective in ensuring that
information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under
the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company s management, including the
Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Other than those listed below, there have not been any changes in the Company s internal control
over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Exchange Act) during the Company s fourth fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company added staff with technical accounting experience to
increase the level of review over the Company s accounting, disclosure, and compliance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The Company plans to
make additional improvements by continuing to recruit personnel with technical accounting
experience and engaging outside professional experts to support management and believes that these
additional reviews will effectively mitigate the material weakness in internal control over
financial reporting which was previously disclosed.

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f).
Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company s management, including the
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, management has conducted an evaluation
of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005,
based on the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on management s evaluation under the
framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework , management concluded that the Company s
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005.

The Company s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on our
assessment of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears under
the Report of Independent Public Accounting Firm which is included below.

78

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Oakley, Inc. 
Foothill Ranch, California:

We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying  Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  appearing in Item 9A, that Oakley, Inc. ( the Company )
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on
the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company s Board of Directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes
these policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including
the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements
due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of the changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management s assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 is fairly stated, in all material respects, based
on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2005, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of
and for the year ended December 31, 2005 of the Company, and our report dated March 31, 2006,
expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
Costa Mesa, California 
March 31, 2006

79

Table of Contents   

Item 9b.     Other Information  

None.

Part III  

Item 10.     Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference from the Company s
Proxy Statement for its Annual Shareholders Meeting to be held on June 9, 2006 (the 2006 Proxy
Statement), under the caption  Board of Directors and Executive Officers,  to be filed with the
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act and mailed to the Company s
shareholders prior to the Company s Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Item 11.     Executive Compensation  

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference from the Company s
2006 Proxy Statement, under the caption  Compensation of Executive Officers,  to be filed with the
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act and mailed to the Company s
shareholders prior to the Company s Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Item 12.   
       
       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  
  and Related Shareholder Matters   

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference from the Company s
2006 Proxy Statement, under the caption  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management,  to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act and
mailed to the Company s shareholders prior to the Company s Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Item 13.     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference from the Company s
2006 Proxy Statement, under the caption  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,  to be
filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act and mailed to the
Company s shareholders prior to the Company s Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Item 14.     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference from the Company s
2006 Proxy Statement, under the caption  Fees of Independent Auditors,  to be filed with the
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act and mailed to the Company s
shareholders prior to the Company s Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

80

Table of Contents   

Part IV  

Item 15.     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

(a)(1) 
       
      See page 43 for a listing of financial statements submitted as part of this report. 

(a)(2) 
       
      Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is
shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.

(a)(3) 
       
      The following exhibits are included in this report. 

81

Table of Contents   

82

Table of Contents   

83

Table of Contents   

OAKLEY, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003  

84

Table of Contents   

Signatures  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
authorized.

OAKLEY, INC. 

By:

/s/ D. Scott Olivet 

D. Scott Olivet

Chief Executive Officer  

Date: March 31, 2006

Pursuant to the requirement of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

Signature 
       
     Title 
       
     Date 

Chief Executive Officer 

/s/ D. Scott Olivet

(Principal Executive Officer)

March 31, 2006 

D. Scott Olivet

Chief Financial Officer 

/s/ Richard Shields

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

March 31, 2006 

Richard Shields

/s/ Jim Jannard

Chairman of the Board of Directors

March 31, 2006 

Jim Jannard

/s/ Link Newcomb

Chief Operating Officer and Director

March 31, 2006 

Link Newcomb

/s/ Tom Davin

Director

March 31, 2006 

Tom Davin

/s/ Mary George

Director

March 31, 2006 

Mary George

/s/ Colombe Nicholas

Director

March 31, 2006 

Colombe Nicholas

/s/ Michael Puntoriero

Director

March 31, 2006 

Michael Puntoriero

/s/ Greg Trojan

Director

March 31, 2006 

Greg Trojan

/s/ Frits van Paasschen

Director

March 31, 2006 

Frits van Paasschen

85

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

Table of Contents   

Table of Contents   

<EX-10.41>
 2
 a18977exv10w41.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.41

EXHIBIT 10.41

INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT

    This Indemnification Agreement is made as of this 3rd day of November 2005,
by and between OAKLEY, INC., a Washington corporation (the "Company"), and
RICHARD SHIELDS ("Indemnified Party").

    WHEREAS, as of the date hereof, the Company has provisions for
indemnification of its directors and officers in Article V of its Articles of
Incorporation (the "Articles of Incorporation") and Article VII of its Amended
and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws") which provide for indemnification of the
Company's directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by law;

    WHEREAS, the indemnification provisions in the Bylaws provide that the right
of indemnification is a contract right of the covered parties;

    WHEREAS, the Bylaws provide that the Company may maintain, at its expense,
insurance to protect itself and any of its directors and officers against
liability asserted against such persons incurred in such capacity whether or not
the Company has the power to indemnify such persons against the same liability
under Section 23B.08.510 or .520 of the Act (as defined below) or a successor
statute;

    WHEREAS, the Company and the Indemnified Party recognize that the officers
and directors of publicly owned companies are frequently joined as parties to
Proceedings (as defined below) against their respective companies as a result of
their serving in such capacity; and

    WHEREAS, in order to induce Indemnified Party to serve or continue to serve
the Company, the Company wishes to confirm the contract indemnification rights
provided in the Bylaws and agrees to provide Indemnified Party with the benefits
contemplated by this Agreement and to supplement the provisions of this
Agreement with directors' and officers' liability insurance maintained by the
Company.

    NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, conditions,
representations and warranties set forth herein, and other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the
Company and Indemnified Party hereby agree as follows:

        1. Definitions. The following terms, as used herein, shall have the
following respective meanings; other capitalized terms used and not specifically
defined in this Section 1 shall have the meanings provided elsewhere in the
Agreement and in the Bylaws:

            (a) "Act" means the Washington Business Corporation Act RCW Title
23B, as amended from time to time.

            (b) "Adjudication" shall refer to a final, non-appealable decision
by a court of competent jurisdiction. "Adjudged" shall have a correlative
meaning.

(c) "Covered Amount" means any Loss, Fine and Expense, to the extent
such Loss, Fine or Expense, in type or amount, is not insured under the D&O
Insurance maintained by the Company from time to time.

            (d) "Covered Act" means any act or omission of the Indemnified Party
in his or her capacity as a director, officer, employee, agent, fiduciary or
consultant of the Company alleged by any claimant or any claim against
Indemnified Party by reason of him or her serving in such a capacity, or by
reason of Indemnified Party serving, at the request of the Company, in such
capacity with another corporation, partnership, employee benefit plan, trust or
other enterprise, in all cases, whether such alleged act or omission occurred
before or after the date of this Agreement.

            (e) "D&O Insurance" means the liability insurance which the Company
may purchase on behalf of Indemnified Party against liability asserted against
or incurred by Indemnified Party in connection with claims arising from Covered
Acts, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify the
individual against the same liability under Section 23B.08.510 or 23B.08.520 of
the Act.

            (f) "Determination" means a determination, based on the facts known
at the time, made:

(i) by the Board of Directors by majority vote of a quorum
consisting of directors not at the time parties to the Proceeding;

                (ii) if a quorum cannot be obtained under clause (i), by
majority vote of a duly designated committee of the Board of Directors, in the
manner provided by Section 23B.08.550(2)(b) of the Act;

                (iii) by special legal counsel, selected in the manner provided
by Section 23B.08.550(2)(c) of the Act, in a written opinion; or

                (iv) by a majority of the shareholders of the Company, excluding
shares owned or voted under the control of directors who are at the time parties
to the Proceeding.

                 "Determined" shall have a correlative meaning.

            (g) "Excluded Claim" means any payment for Losses, Fines or Expenses
in connection with any claim relating to or arising out of:

                (i) acts or omissions of the Indemnified Party Adjudged to be
intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law;

                (ii) conduct of the Indemnified Party Adjudged to be in
violation of Section 23B.08.310 of the Act; or

2

(iii) any transaction with respect to which it was Adjudged that
such Indemnified Party personally received a benefit in money, property, or
services to which the Indemnified Party was not legally entitled.

            (h) "Expenses" means any reasonable expenses incurred by Indemnified
Party as a result of a claim or claims made against Indemnified Party from
Covered Acts, including, without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and costs
of investigative, judicial or administrative proceedings or appeals.

            (i) "Fines" means any fine or penalty including, with respect to an
employee benefit plan, any excise tax assessed with respect thereto.

            (j) "Losses" means amounts, as determined by an Adjudication, which
the Indemnified Party is legally obligated to pay as a result of a claim or
claims arising from Covered Acts, including, without limitation, Fines, damages
and judgments and sums paid in settlement of such claim or claims.

            (k) "Proceeding" means any threatened, pending or completed action,
suit, proceeding or investigation, whether civil, criminal or administrative
whether formal or informal.

        2. Maintenance of D&O Insurance.

            (a) The Company hereby covenants and agrees that, so long as
Indemnified Party shall continue to serve as a director or executive officer of
the Company and thereafter, for so long as Indemnified Party shall be subject to
any possible Proceeding arising from any Covered Act, the Company, subject to
Section 2(c), shall maintain in full force and effect D&O Insurance.

            (b) In all policies of D&O Insurance, Indemnified Party shall be
named as an insured in such a manner as to provide Indemnified Party the same
rights and benefits, and the same limitations, as are accorded to the Company's
directors or executive officers most favorably insured by such policy.

            (c) The Company shall have no obligation to maintain D&O Insurance
if the Company, by majority vote of the Board of Directors, determines in good
faith that such insurance is not reasonably available, the premium costs for
such insurance are disproportionate to the amount of coverage provided, or the
coverage provided by such insurance is limited by exclusions so as to provide an
insufficient benefit; provided, however, that such decision shall not adversely
affect coverage of D&O Insurance for periods prior to such decision without the
unanimous vote of all directors.

        3. Indemnification. The Company shall indemnify Indemnified Party up to
the Covered Amount and shall advance any and all Expenses to Indemnified Party
in connection with any Proceeding or any Covered Act, subject, in each case, to
the further provisions of this Agreement. This Agreement is made pursuant to and
to effectuate the indemnification provisions set forth in Article V of the
Articles of Incorporation and Article VII of the Bylaws. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Agreement, the

3

Company shall indemnify Indemnified Party to the extent Indemnified Party is
successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any Proceeding to
which Indemnified Party was a party because of being a director, officer,
employee, agent, fiduciary or consultant of the Company, against reasonable
Expenses incurred by Indemnified Party in connection with the Proceeding.

        4. Excluded Coverage. The Company shall have no obligation to indemnify
Indemnified Party for any Losses or Expenses which arise from an Excluded Claim.

        5. Indemnification Procedures.

            (a) Promptly after receipt by Indemnified Party of notice of the
commencement of or the threat of commencement of any Proceeding, Indemnified
Party shall, if indemnification or advancement of Expenses with respect thereto
may be sought from the Company under this Agreement, notify the Company of the
commencement or the threat of commencement thereof.

            (b) If, at the time of the receipt of such notice, the Company has
D&O Insurance in effect, the Company shall give prompt notice of the
commencement or the threat of commencement of such Proceeding to the appropriate
insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the respective policies
in favor of Indemnified Party. The Company shall thereafter take all necessary
or desirable action to cause such insurers to, in accordance with the terms of
such policies: (i) advance, to the extent permitted by law, any and all Expenses
to Indemnified Party, (ii) pay, on behalf of Indemnified Party, all amounts
(including, without limitation, Losses and Expenses) payable as a result of, or
in connection with, such Proceeding and (iii) reimburse Indemnified Party for
all amounts (including, without limitation, Losses and Expenses) paid by
Indemnified Party as a result of, or in connection with, such Proceeding.

            (c) To the extent the Company does not, at the time of the
commencement of or the threat of commencement of such Proceeding, have
applicable D&O Insurance, or if a Determination is made that any Loss, Fine or
Expense of the Indemnified Party arising out of such Proceeding will not be
payable under the D&O Insurance then in effect, the Company shall be obligated
to pay the Covered Amount with respect to any Proceeding and to provide counsel
satisfactory to Indemnified Party upon the delivery to Indemnified Party of
written notice of the Company's election to do so. After delivery of such
notice, the Company will not be liable to Indemnified Party under this Agreement
for any legal or other Expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnified Party
in connection with such defense other than the reasonable Expenses of
investigation of Indemnified Party; provided, that Indemnified Party shall have
the right to employ his or her own counsel in connection with the defense of any
such Proceeding, the fees and expenses of such counsel incurred after delivery
of notice from the Company of its assumption of such defense to be at the
Indemnified Party's sole expense. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if (i) the
employment of counsel by Indemnified Party has been previously authorized by the
Company, (ii) Indemnified Party shall have been advised by counsel that there
may be a conflict of interest between the Company and Indemnified Party in the
conduct of any such defense or (iii) the Company shall not, in

4

fact, have employed counsel to assume the defense of such Proceeding, in each
such case, the fees and expenses of such counsel retained by Indemnified Party
shall be at the expense of the Company. In the event Indemnified Party is
entitled to employ counsel at the Company's expense pursuant to the terms of
this Paragraph 5(c), and if so requested in writing by Indemnified Party, the
Company shall advance any and all Expenses to Indemnified Party to the extent
permitted by law.

            (d) All payments on account of the Company's indemnification or
advancement obligations under Paragraph 5(b) of this Agreement shall be made
within sixty (60) days of Indemnified Party's written request therefor unless a
Determination is made that the claims giving rise to Indemnified Party's request
are Excluded Claims or otherwise not payable under this Agreement. All payments
on account of the Company's obligations under Paragraph 5(c) of this Agreement
shall be made within 20 days of Indemnified Party's written request therefor,
subject to Paragraph 5(e) of this Agreement.

            (e) In the event that (i) a Determination is made that the claims
giving rise to Indemnified Party's request are Excluded Claims or otherwise not
payable under this Agreement or (ii) it is Adjudged that the Indemnified Party
is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company for Losses or Expenses under
this Agreement, the Articles of Incorporation, the Bylaws or the Act, the
Company shall have no obligation to indemnify, or advance any Expenses to
Indemnified Party. Further, in either case, Indemnified Party agrees that he or
she will reimburse the Company for all Losses and Expenses paid by the Company
and all Expenses advanced by the Company in connection with such Proceeding
against Indemnified Party.

        6. Settlement. The Company shall have no obligation to indemnify
Indemnified Party under this Agreement for any amounts paid in settlement of any
Proceeding effected without the Company's prior written consent. The Company
shall not settle any claim in any manner which would impose any loss or expense
on Indemnified Party without Indemnified Party's prior written consent, unless
the Company provides a written undertaking to the Indemnified Party to pay for
such loss or expense on behalf of the Indemnified Party. Neither the Company nor
Indemnified Party shall unreasonably withhold their consent to any proposed
settlement.

        7. Rights Not Exclusive. The rights provided hereunder shall be in
addition to any other rights to which Indemnified Party may be entitled under
the Articles of Incorporation, the Bylaws, the Act, any agreement or vote of
shareholders or directors or otherwise, both as to action in Indemnified Party's
official capacity and as to action in any other capacity, and such rights shall
continue after Indemnified Party ceases to serve the Company as a director or
officer.

        8. Enforcement.

            (a) Indemnified Party's rights to indemnification or advancement of
Expenses hereunder shall be enforceable by Indemnified Party notwithstanding any
adverse Determination. In any such action, if a prior adverse Determination has
been made, the burden of proving that indemnification or advancement of Expenses
is required

5

under this Agreement, the Articles of Incorporation, the Bylaws or the Act shall
be on the Indemnified Party. The Company shall have the burden of proving that
indemnification or advancement of Expenses is not required under this Agreement
if no prior adverse Determination shall have been made.

            (b) In the event that any action is instituted by Indemnified Party
under this Agreement, or to enforce or interpret any of the terms of this
Agreement, Indemnified Party shall be entitled to be paid all court costs and
expenses, including reasonable counsel fees, incurred by Indemnified Party with
respect to such action, unless the court determines that each of the material
assertions made by Indemnified Party as a basis for such action were not made in
good faith or were frivolous.

        9. No Presumptions. For purposes of this Agreement, the termination of
any Proceeding by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court
approval) or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendre, or its equivalent,
shall not create a presumption that the Indemnified Party did not meet any
particular standard of conduct or have any particular belief or that a court has
determined that indemnification or advancement of Expenses by the Company is not
permitted hereunder or by applicable law. In addition, neither the absence of a
Determination as to whether Indemnified Party has met any particular standard of
conduct or had any particular belief or the existence of a Determination that
Indemnified Party has not met such standard of conduct or did not have such
belief, prior to the commencement of legal proceedings by Indemnified Party to
secure an Adjudication that Indemnified Party should be indemnified or advanced
or reimbursed Expenses hereunder or under applicable law, shall be a defense to
Indemnified Party's claim or create a presumption that Indemnified Party has not
met any particular standard of conduct or did not have any particular belief.

        10. Subrogation. In the event of payment under this Agreement, the
Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights
of recovery of Indemnified Party, who shall execute all papers required and
shall do everything that may be necessary to secure such rights, including the
execution of such documents necessary to enable the Company to effectively bring
suit to enforce such rights.

        11. No Duplication of Payments. The Company shall not be liable under
this Agreement to make any payment in connection with any Proceeding against
Indemnified Party to the extent Indemnified Party has otherwise actually
received payment (under any D&O Insurance, the Articles of Incorporation, the
Bylaws, the Act or otherwise) of the amounts which may be paid hereunder.

        12. Severability. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to require the Company to do or
to fail to do an act which is in violation of the Articles of Incorporation, the
Bylaws or the Act or other applicable law, such provision shall be limited or
modified in its application to the minimum extent necessary to avoid such
violation, and, as so limited or modified, such provision and the remainder of
this Agreement shall be enforceable in accordance with the respective terms.

6

13. Choice of Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and
enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington, without
reference to conflicts of law principles therein.

        14. Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be (i) binding upon all
successors and assigns of the Company (including any transferee of all or
substantially all of the Company's assets and any successor by merger or
otherwise by operation of law) and (ii) binding on and inure to the benefit of
the heirs, personal representatives and estate of Indemnified Party. Indemnified
Party may not assign this Agreement or any of Indemnified Party's rights
hereunder without the prior written consent of the Company.

        15. Amendment. No amendment, modification, termination or cancellation
of this Agreement shall be effective unless made in a writing signed by each of
the parties hereto.

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

7

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and Indemnified Party have executed this
Indemnification Agreement as of the date first above written.

                                            OAKLEY, INC.

By: /s/ Cosmas N. Lykos
                                                --------------------------------
                                            Name: Cosmas N. Lykos
                                                  ------------------------------
                                            Title: V.P. Business Development
                                                   -----------------------------

/s/ Richard Shields
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Richard Shields, Indemnified Party

8

</EX-10.41>

<EX-10.42>
 3
 a18977exv10w42.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.42

EXHIBIT 10.42

OAKLEY, INC.

                                 FIRST AMENDMENT
                                       TO
                   THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT

                This FIRST AMENDMENT TO THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT
AGREEMENT (this "AMENDMENT") is dated as of January 18, 2006 and entered into by
and among Oakley, Inc., a Washington corporation ("BORROWER"), the financial
institutions listed on the signature pages hereof ("LENDERS") and Bank of
America, N.A., as administrative agent for Lenders ("AGENT"), and, for purposes
of Section 4 hereof, the Guarantors (as defined in Section 4 hereof) listed on
the signature pages hereof, and is made with reference to that certain Third
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of August 19, 2004 (the "CREDIT
AGREEMENT"), by and among Borrower, Lenders and Agent. Capitalized terms used
herein without definition shall have the same meanings herein as set forth in
the Credit Agreement.

RECITALS

                WHEREAS, Borrower and Lenders desire to amend the Credit
Agreement to (i) permit the proposed acquisition by Borrower of all of the
capital stock of Oliver Peoples, Inc., a California corporation, and Kenneth
Lorence Opticians, Inc., a California corporation (collectively, the "TARGET"),
on the terms and conditions set forth below, and (ii) make certain other
amendments as set forth below;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the
agreements, provisions and covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree
as follows:

SECTION 1. AMENDMENTS TO THE CREDIT AGREEMENT

1.1     AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 1: DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS

                A. Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by
adding thereto the following definitions, which shall be inserted in proper
alphabetical order:

                "COMERICA CREDIT FACILITY" means the Loan and Security Agreement
(Accounts and Inventory), dated July 15, 2005, by and among OP and Mosley, as
borrowers, and Comerica Bank as the same maybe amended from time to time
consistent with the terms of this Agreement.

"MOSLEY" means Mosley Tribes, Ltd., a California corporation.

"OP" means Oliver Peoples, Inc., a California corporation.

1

"OP/KLO ACQUISITION" means the transactions contemplated by the
OP/KLO Acquisition Agreement.

"OP/KLO ACQUISITION AGREEMENT" means that certain Stock Purchase
Agreement by and among Borrower, OP, Kenneth Lorence Opticians, Inc., a
California corporation, and the owners of OP and Kenneth Lorence Opticians,
Inc., in the form delivered to Agent and Lenders prior to their execution of
this Amendment, as such agreement may be amended from time to time consistent
with the terms of this Agreement.

"OP/KLO ACQUISITION CONSIDERATION" means all amounts required to
pay the consideration for the OP/KLO Acquisition and related fees, costs and
expenses paid by Borrower in connection therewith within one year of the closing
date of the OP/KLO Acquisition.

B. The definition of "Permitted Acquisition" in Section 1.1 of
the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following text at the
end thereof:

        "Notwithstanding the foregoing, the OP/KLO Acquisition Consideration
        shall be excluded from the calculations in clause (iii) above for the
        purposes of compliance with Section 7.6(viii)."

1.2     AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 7: BORROWER'S NEGATIVE COVENANTS

                A. INDEBTEDNESS.

                (i) Section 7.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting the word "and" at the end of Section 7.1(viii), deleting the period at
the end of Section 7.1(ix) and substituting therefor "; and", and inserting the
following new Section 7.1(x):

                "(x) In addition to amounts permitted under Section 7.1(viii),
        upon consummation of the OP/KLO Acquisition, OP and Mosley may remain
        liable for Indebtedness under the Comerica Credit Facility until July
        31, 2006, so long as (i) the aggregate principal amount outstanding
        under the Comerica Credit Facility does not exceed $4,000,000 at any
        time, (ii) no other Loan Party guarantees such Indebtedness, and (iii)
        no Liens to secure such Indebtedness attach to assets of any Loan Party
        other than OP and Mosley."

                (ii) Section 7.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby further
amended by deleting the last sentence thereof in its entirety and substituting
the following therefor:

        "Notwithstanding the foregoing, clauses (i) through (x) above shall not
        apply to Oakley Denmark and Oakley Holding."

2

B. LIENS AND RELATED MATTERS.

                Section 7.2(a)(ix) is hereby amended by deleting it in its
entirety and substituting the following therefor:

                "(ix) Liens securing Indebtedness permitted under Section
        7.1(viii) and Section 7.1(x)."

C. RESTRICTION ON FUNDAMENTAL CHANGES; ASSET SALES AND
ACQUISITIONS.

                (i) Section 7.6 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting the word "and" at the end of Section 7.6(vi), renumbering Section
7.6(vii) as Section 7.6(viii), and inserting the following new Section 7.6(vii):

                "(vii)Borrower and its Subsidiaries may consummate the OP/KLO
        Acquisition in accordance with the terms of the OP/KLO Acquisition
        Agreement; and"

(ii) Section 7.6 of the Credit Agreement is hereby further
amended by deleting the last sentence thereof in its entirety and substituting
the following therefor:

        "Notwithstanding the foregoing, clauses (i) through (viii) above shall
        not apply to Oakley Denmark and Oakley Holding."

                SECTION 2. CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS

                Section 1 of this Amendment shall become effective only upon the
satisfaction of all of the following conditions precedent (the date of
satisfaction of such conditions being referred to herein as the "FIRST AMENDMENT
EFFECTIVE DATE"):

A. On the First Amendment Effective Date, (a) after giving
effect to Section 1 hereof, the representations and warranties contained in
Section 3 hereof shall be true and correct as of such date, as though made on
and as of such date; (b) after giving effect to Section 1 hereof, no Default or
Event of Default shall then exist; and (c) Borrower shall deliver to Agent a
certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of Borrower confirming the
foregoing.

                B. On or before the First Amendment Effective Date, Borrower
shall deliver to Agent for Lenders with sufficient originally executed copies,
where appropriate, for each Lender and its counsel the following, each, unless
otherwise noted, dated the First Amendment Effective Date:

                        1. A certificate of its corporate secretary or an
        assistant secretary certifying that the organizational documents of the
        Borrower as delivered to Agent on the Closing Date, are in full force
        and effect and have not been amended or modified in any respect since
        the Closing Date;

3

2. Resolutions of its Board of Directors approving and
        authorizing the execution, delivery, and performance of this Amendment
        and the OP/KLO Acquisition Agreement, certified as of the First
        Amendment Effective Date by its corporate secretary or an assistant
        secretary as being in full force and effect without modification or
        amendment;

                        3. Signature and incumbency certificates of its
        Responsible Officers executing this Amendment;

                        4. Executed copies of this Amendment; and

                        5. A Certificate of a Responsible Officer to the effect
        that (i) the OP/KLO Acquisition Agreement attached thereto is in full
        force and effect and is a true and correct copy of the executed version
        of such agreement, (ii) the OP/KLO Acquisition Consideration shall not
        exceed $60,000,000, (iii) the OP/KLO Acquisition is not a Hostile
        Acquisition, (iv) the OP/KLO Acquisition is in a line of business
        related to the lines of business of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, (v)
        no Event of Default or Default exists or shall occur as a result of
        giving effect to the OP/KLO Acquisition, and (vi) the Target has
        positive Consolidated EBITDA for the four fiscal quarters ended December
        31, 2005.

                C. Required Lenders shall have executed and delivered to the
Agent a counterpart to this Amendment.

                D. On or before the First Amendment Effective Date, all
corporate and other proceedings taken or to be taken in connection with the
transactions contemplated hereby and all documents incidental thereto not
previously found acceptable by Agent, acting on behalf of Lenders, and its
counsel shall be satisfactory in form and substance to Agent and such counsel,
and Agent and such counsel shall have received all such counterpart originals or
certified copies of such documents as Agent may reasonably request.

                SECTION 3. BORROWER'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

                In order to induce Lenders to enter into this Amendment and to
amend the Credit Agreement in the manner provided herein, Borrower represents
and warrants to each Lender that the following statements are true, correct and
complete:

A. CORPORATE POWER AND AUTHORITY. Borrower has all requisite
corporate power and authority to enter into this Amendment and to carry out the
transactions contemplated by, and perform its obligations under, the Credit
Agreement as amended by this Amendment (the "AMENDED AGREEMENT").

                B. AUTHORIZATION OF AGREEMENTS. The execution and delivery of
this Amendment and the performance of the Amended Agreement have been duly
authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of Borrower.

4

C. NO CONFLICT. The execution and delivery by Borrower of this
Amendment and the performance by Borrower of the Amended Agreement do not and
will not (i) violate any provision of any law or any governmental rule or
regulation applicable to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, the certificate or
articles of incorporation or bylaws of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or
any order, judgment or decree of any court or other agency of government binding
on Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) conflict with, result in a breach
of or constitute (with due notice or lapse of time or both) a default under any
Contractual Obligation of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (iii) result in
or require the creation or imposition of any Lien upon any of the properties or
assets of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Liens created under
any of the Loan Documents in favor of Agent on behalf of Lenders), or (iv)
require any approval of stockholders or any approval or consent of any Person
under any Contractual Obligation of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, except
for such approvals or consents which have been obtained on or before the First
Amendment Effective Date and disclosed in writing to Lenders.

                D. GOVERNMENTAL CONSENTS. The execution and delivery by Borrower
of this Amendment and the performance by Borrower of the Amended Agreement do
not and will not require any registration with, consent or approval of, or
notice to, or other action to, with or by, any federal, state or other
governmental authority or regulatory body.

                E. BINDING OBLIGATION. This Amendment has been duly executed and
delivered by Borrower and this Amendment and the Amended Agreement are the
legally valid and binding obligations of Borrower, enforceable against Borrower
in accordance with their respective terms, except as may be limited by
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws relating to
or limiting creditors' rights generally or by equitable principles relating to
enforceability.

                F. INCORPORATION OF REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES FROM CREDIT
AGREEMENT. The representations and warranties contained in Section 5 of the
Credit Agreement are and will be true, correct and complete in all material
respects on and as of the First Amendment Effective Date to the same extent as
though made on and as of that date, except to the extent such representations
and warranties specifically relate to an earlier date, in which case they were
true, correct and complete in all material respects on and as of such earlier
date.

                G. ABSENCE OF DEFAULT. No event has occurred and is continuing
or will result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Amendment that would constitute an Event of Default or a Default.

                SECTION 4. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND CONSENT

                Each guarantor (or pledgor) listed on the signatures pages
hereof (each, a "GUARANTOR") hereby acknowledges and agrees that each Loan
Document to which it is a party or otherwise bound (each, a "CREDIT SUPPORT
DOCUMENT") shall continue in full force and effect and that all of its
obligations thereunder shall be valid and enforceable and shall not be impaired
or limited by the execution or effectiveness of this Amendment. Each

5

Guarantor represents and warrants that all representations and warranties
contained in the Amended Agreement and the Credit Support Documents to which it
is a party or otherwise bound are true, correct and complete in all material
respects on and as of the First Amendment Effective Date to the same extent as
though made on and as of that date, except to the extent such representations
and warranties specifically relate to an earlier date, in which case they were
true, correct and complete in all material respects on and as of such earlier
date.

Each Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that (i) notwithstanding
the conditions to effectiveness set forth in this Amendment, such Guarantor is
not required by the terms of the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document to
consent to the amendments to the Credit Agreement effected pursuant to this
Amendment, and (ii) nothing in the Credit Agreement, this Amendment or any other
Loan Document shall be deemed to require the consent of such Guarantor to any
future amendments to the Credit Agreement.

SECTION 5. MISCELLANEOUS

                A. REFERENCE TO AND EFFECT ON THE CREDIT AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER
LOAN DOCUMENTS.

                (i) On and after the First Amendment Effective Date, each
reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof",
"herein" or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each
reference in the other Loan Documents to the "Credit Agreement", "thereunder",
"thereof" or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement shall mean
and be a reference to the Amended Agreement.

                (ii) Except as specifically amended by this Amendment, the
Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain in full force and
effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.

                (iii) The execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment
shall not, except as expressly provided herein, constitute a waiver of any
provision of, or operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of Agent or
any Lender under, the Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents.

                B. FEES AND EXPENSES. Borrower acknowledges that all costs, fees
and expenses as described in Section 10.4 of the Credit Agreement incurred by
Agent and its counsel with respect to this Amendment and the documents and
transactions contemplated hereby shall be for the account of Borrower.

                C. HEADINGS. Section and subsection headings in this Amendment
are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a
part of this Amendment for any other purpose or be given any substantive effect.

                D. APPLICABLE LAW. THIS AMENDMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY,

6

AND SHALL BE CONSTRUED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION SECTION 1646.5 OF THE CIVIL
CODE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA), WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS
PRINCIPLES.

                E. COUNTERPARTS; EFFECTIVENESS. This Amendment may be executed
in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate
counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an
original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one and the
same instrument; signature pages may be detached from multiple separate
counterparts and attached to a single counterpart so that all signature pages
are physically attached to the same document.

                  [Remainder of page intentionally left blank]

7

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this
Amendment to be duly executed and delivered by their respective officers
thereunto duly authorized as of the date first written above.

OAKLEY, INC.

By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                               ---------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------------

BAZOOKA, INC., (for purposes of Section
                                        4 only) as a Credit Support Party

By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                               ---------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------------

OAKLEY SALES CORP., (for purposes of
                                        Section 4 only) as a Credit Support
                                        Party

By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                               ---------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------------

OAKLEY DIRECT, INC., (for purposes of
                                        Section 4 only) as a Credit Support
                                        Party

By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                               ---------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------------

OAKLEY DENMARK, APS, (for purposes of
                                        Section 4 only) as a Credit Support
                                        Party

By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                               ---------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------------

S-1

OAKLEY HOLDING, SAS, (for purposes of
                                        Section 4 only) as a Credit Support
                                        Party

By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                               ---------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------------

S-2

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Agent

By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                               ---------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------------

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as a Lender, L/C
                                        Issuer and Swing Line Lender

By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                               ---------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------------

UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A., as a
                                        Lender

By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                               ---------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------------

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as a Lender

By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                               ---------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------------

S-3

</EX-10.42>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 a18977exv21w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1

exv21w1 

Exhibit 21.1

Oakley, Inc.   
List of Material Subsidiaries

Bazooka, Inc.

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 a18977exv23w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1

Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms  Consent  

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-98690 and 333-07191
on Form S-8 of our reports dated March 31, 2006, relating to the consolidated financial statements
and financial statement schedule of Oakley, Inc. and management s report on the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Oakley,
Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2005.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE

Costa Mesa, California 
March 31, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 a18977exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

Certification of Chief Executive Officer 
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

I, D. Scott Olivet, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Oakley, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006

/s/ D. Scott Olivet 

D. Scott Olivet

Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 a18977exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

Certification of Chief Financial Officer 
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

I, Richard Shields, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Oakley, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006

/s/ Richard Shields 

Richard Shields

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 a18977exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

Certification of CEO and CFO Pursuant to 
18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
as Adopted Pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Oakley, Inc. (the  Company ) for the annual
period ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), D. Scott Olivet, as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Richard
Shields, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, each hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  
1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to the best of his
knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Oakley,
Inc. and will be retained by Oakley, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.

/s/ D. Scott Olivet

Name: D. Scott Olivet

Title: Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 31, 2006

/s/ Richard Shields

Name: Richard Shields

Title: Chief Financial Officer

Date: March 31, 2006

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely to accompany the Report pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, and is not being filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company,
whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in
such filing.

</EX-32.1>

