<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_928658_0001008886-06-000043_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1894269</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>241993</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>109622</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1226070</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>42</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001008886-06-000043.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331154029
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001008886-06-000043
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COVENANT TRANSPORT INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000928658
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	TRUCKING (NO LOCAL) [4213]
		IRS NUMBER:				880320154
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NV
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-24960
		FILM NUMBER:		06728674

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		400 BIRMINGHAM HIGHWAY
		CITY:			CHATTANOOGA
		STATE:			TN
		ZIP:			37419
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4238211212

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		400 BIRMINGHAM HIGHWAY
		CITY:			CHATTANOOGA
		STATE:			TN
		ZIP:			37419

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 AVTaZ/XhkMT9DGkFGIQfGAMrPJi126NgNa0z0GaT+6oHyzCkbXIOGBP+RbPCPE2p
 JfGPWckivdvTgUFVeJ2lpg==

 0001008886-06-000043.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 cvtiform10k.htm
 COVENANT FORM 10-K

Covenant Form 10-K

UNITED
      STATES  

       SECURITIES
      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

       Washington,
      D.C. 20549  

FORM
      10-K  

      (Mark
      One) 

Commission
      file number         0-24960   

COVENANT
      TRANSPORT, INC.  

      (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Nevada  

88-0320154  

(State
                  or other jurisdiction of 

(I.R.S.
                  Employer 

incorporation
                  or organization) 

Identification
                  No.) 

400
                  Birmingham Hwy.  

Chattanooga,
                  TN   

37419  

(Address
                  of principal executive offices) 

(Zip
                  Code) 

Registrant's
                telephone number, including area code: 

423-821-1212  

Securities
                registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

None  

Securities
                registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 

$0.01
                Par Value Class A Common Stock  

(Title of class) 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities  

      Act.
      [X]
      Yes [   ] No 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.   

      [X]
      Yes
      [   ] No 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
      during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
      was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
      requirements for the past 90 days.  

      [X]
      Yes
      [   ] No 

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
      best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
      amendments to this Form 10-K. [X] 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in
      Rule
      12b-2 of the Act).  

      [X]
      Yes
      [   ] No 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
      12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  

      [ 
       ] Yes [X] No  

The
      aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
      registrant as of June 30, 2005, was approximately $123.4 million
      (based upon the $13.20 per share closing price on that date as reported by
      Nasdaq). In making this calculation the registrant has assumed, without
      admitting for any purpose, that all executive officers, directors, and
      affiliated holders of more than 10% of a class of outstanding common stock,
      and
      no other persons, are affiliates. 

As
      of
      March 1, 2006, the registrant had 11,643,008 shares of Class A common stock
      and 2,350,000 shares of Class B common stock outstanding. 

Materials
      from the registrant's definitive proxy statement for the 2006 annual meeting
      of
      stockholders to be held on May 23, 2006 have been incorporated by reference
      into
      Part III of this Form 10-K.  

Table
                    of Contents   

Part
                    I 

Item
                    1. 

Business 

3  

Item
                    1A. 

Risk
                    Factors 

10  

Item
                    1B. 

Unresolved
                    Staff Comments 

15  

Item
                    2. 

Properties 

16  

Item
                    3. 

Legal
                    Proceedings 

16  

Item
                    4. 

Submission
                    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

16  

Part
                    II 

Item
                    5. 

Market
                    for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
                    Issuer
                    Purchases of Equity Securities 

17  

Item
                    6. 

Selected
                    Financial and Operating Data 

18  

Item
                    7. 

Management's
                    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
                    Operations 

20  

Item
                    7A. 

Quantitative
                    and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk       

35  

Item
                    8. 

Financial
                    Statements and Supplementary Data 

36  

Item
                    9. 

Changes
                    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
                    Disclosure 

36  

Item
                    9A. 

Controls
                    and Procedures 

36  

Item
                    9B. 

Other
                    Information 

37  

Part
                    III 

Item
                    10. 

Directors
                    and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

38  

Item
                    11. 

Executive
                    Compensation 

38  

Item
                    12. 

Security
                    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 

38  

Item
                    13. 

Certain
                    Relationships and Related Transactions 

39  

Item
                    14. 

Principal
                    Accounting Fees and Services 

39  

Part
                    IV 

Item
                    15. 

Exhibits,
                    Financial Statement Schedules 

40  

Signatures 

43  

Reports
                    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

44  

Financial
                    Data 

Consolidated
                    Balance Sheets    

46  

Consolidated
                    Statements of Operations    

47  

Consolidated
                    Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income
                    (Loss)    

48  

Consolidated
                    Statements of Cash Flows    

49  

Notes
                    to Consolidated Financial Statements    

50  

2 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

PART
      I  

ITEM
      1 .          BUSINESS  

This
      Annual Report contains certain statements that may be considered forward-looking
      statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933,
      as
      amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
      Such
      statements may be identified by their use of terms or phrases such as "expects,"
      "estimates," "projects," "believes," "anticipates," "intends," and similar
      terms
      and phrases. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and
      uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified, which could
      cause future events and actual results to differ materially from those set
      forth
      in, contemplated by, or underlying the forward-looking statements. Readers
      should review and consider the factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors of
      this Annual Report on Form 10-K, along with various disclosures in our press
      releases, stockholder reports, and other filings with the Securities and
      Exchange Commission. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise any
      forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in the factors
      affecting the forward-looking information.  

References
      in this Annual Report to "we," "us," "our," or the "Company" or similar terms
      refer to Covenant Transport, Inc. and its
      subsidiaries.   

General  

We
      are
      one of the ten largest truckload carriers in the United States measured by
      revenue, according to    Transport
      Topics,   
      a
      publication of the American Trucking Associations. We focus on targeted markets
      where we believe our service standards can provide a competitive advantage.
      We
      are a major carrier for traditional truckload customers such as manufacturers
      and retailers, as well as for transportation companies such as freight
      forwarders, less-than-truckload carriers, and third-party logistics providers
      that require a high level of service to support their businesses. 

We
      were
      founded as a provider of expedited long-haul freight transportation, primarily
      using two-person driver teams in transcontinental lanes. From our inception
      in
      1986 through the late 1990's, we focused primarily on Expedited team service.
      During this time, approximately 60% to 70% of our tractors were operated by
      teams, and our solo-driver operations primarily supported certain customer
      needs
      and provided a driver pool from which to build teams. Our operations were
      characterized by very long lengths of haul, intense asset utilization that
      generated significant mileage and revenue per truck, and a high level of
      customer service. 

Beginning
      in the late 1990's and continuing into 2001, a combination of customer demand
      for additional services, changes in freight distribution patterns, a desire
      to
      reduce exposure to the more cyclical and seasonal long-haul markets, and a
      desire for additional growth markets convinced us to offer additional services.
      Through our acquisitions of Bud Meyer Truck Line and Southern Refrigerated
      Transport, we entered the temperature-controlled market. Through our
      acquisitions of Harold Ives Trucking and Con-Way Truckload Services, we
      developed a significant solo-driver operation. In addition, over the past
      several years, we internally developed the capacity to provide dedicated fleet
      services.  

The
      following charts demonstrate the development of our business into multiple
      transportation services.  

3 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

During
      2005, we began the formal realignment of our business into four distinct service
      offerings: Expedited team, Refrigerated, Dedicated, and Regional
      solo-driver. 

We
      intend
      to manage and operate each service offering separately, each under the authority
      of a general manager. We have hired the general managers of the Expedited team,
      Refrigerated, and Regional solo-driver service offerings, and we are evaluating
      candidates for the Dedicated service offering. In addition, within the Regional
      solo-driver service offering, we expect to divide the business into several
      service centers, each under separate management as well.  

We
      believe the realignment of our business will offer a number of opportunities,
      as
      well as challenges. Some of the more significant opportunities we envision
      include: 

Greater
                emphasis and ownership of driver management leading to better
                retention; 

Better
                and faster information about our business, together with fast-acting
                smaller service offerings; 

More
                responsiveness to customers; 

More
                attractive lanes for drivers; and 

More
                emphasis on lanes with most of the freight that travels by
                truck. 

Some
      of
      the more significant challenges we may face include: 

Developing
                depth at the General Manager level; 

Becoming
                accustomed to distributed decision making; 

Coordination
                of loads, rates, bids, customers, and drivers among
                regions; 

Headcount
                while regions develop and over-the-road remains; and 

Increasing
                the percentage of transaction-intense freight that requires more
                frequent
                communications, customer appointments, equipment turns, driver home
                time,
                and billing. 

The
      realignment has involved significant changes, including selecting and installing
      new leadership over each service offering, reassigning personnel, allocating
      tractors and trailers to each service offering, migrating operations to
      preferred traffic lanes for each service offering, acquainting drivers and
      customers to new lanes, contacts, and procedures, and developing systems to
      support, measure, and hold accountable each service offering. Although we have
      made significant progress, this process will continue at least into
      2007. 

Initial
      results of the business realignment on each service offering include the
      following: 

Expedited
                team service. Focused attention on teams has produced a substantial
                increase in average length of haul, average miles per tractor, and
                average
                freight revenue per tractor. As a result of greater productivity,
                the
                previous decline in team-driven tractors has
                stabilized. 

Refrigerated
                service. Prioritizing certain lanes and the allocation of teams to
                this
                service offering increased average length of haul, average miles
                per
                tractor, and average revenue per tractor. In addition, we are increasing
                the allocation of tractors to this service offering. 

Dedicated
                service. There has been essentially no change in Dedicated service
                because
                of the longer contract duration. In addition, we are continuing to
                evaluate individual candidates to manage this business. 

Regional
                solo-driver service. This service offering is our largest and is
                in the
                beginning stages of significant changes in its operating lanes and
                territories, freight mix, personnel, and policies and procedures.
                Over the
                long term we expect these changes to result in a shorter average
                length of
                haul and an increase in average freight revenue per tractor. However,
                interim results may fluctuate substantially. We expect to allocate
                trucks
                to other service offerings until the operating results of this service
                offering improve and become more
                consistent. 

Our
      business realignment presents numerous challenges and may result in volatile
      financial performance or periods of unprofitable results. We believe our results
      will be most volatile during the first half of 2006. However, fluctuations
      in
      results may be ongoing as major activities within the realignment will
      continue at least into 2007.  

4 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Our
      four
      service offerings are described in more detail below. 

Expedited
                team service offering. At December 31, 2005, we operated
                approximately 910 tractors in our Expedited team service offering.
                Our
                teams generally operate over distances ranging from 1,000 to 2,000
                miles
                and had an average length of haul 1,525 miles in the fourth quarter
                of
                2005. Our expedited teams offer service standards such as coast-to-coast
                delivery in 72 hours, meeting delivery appointments within
                15 minutes, and delivering 99% of loads on-time. We believe our
                expedited teams offer greater speed and reliability than rail, rail-truck
                intermodal, and solo-driver competitors at a lower cost than air
                freight.
                The main advantage to us of expedited team service is high revenue
                per
                tractor. The main challenges are managing the mileage on the trucks
                to
                avoid decreasing the resale value and recruiting and pairing two
                drivers,
                particularly during driver shortages, which tend to coincide with
                strong
                economic activity that increases demand.  

Dedicated
                service offering. At December 31, 2005, we operated approximately 609
                tractors in our Dedicated service offering. These tractors operate
                for a
                single customer or on a defined route and frequently have contractually
                guaranteed revenue. This part of our business has grown over the
                past few
                years as customers have desired committed capacity, and we have expanded
                our participation in their design, development, and execution of
                supply
                chain solutions. We believe the advantages of dedicated service include
                protection against rate pressure during the term of the agreement
                and
                predictable equipment utilization and routes, which assist with driver
                retention, asset productivity, and management planning. We believe
                the
                challenges of dedicated fleets include limited ability to react to
                certain
                cost changes and to increase rates to take advantage of market
                shifts. 

Refrigerated
                service offering. At December 31, 2005, we operated approximately
                765 tractors in our Refrigerated service offering, which consists of
                our refrigerated trucks in operation under the Covenant Transport
                name and
                the Southern Refrigerated Transport, or SRT, name. Our Refrigerated
                service offering includes the transport of fresh produce from the
                West
                Coast to the Midwest or Southeast and return with either refrigerated
                or
                general commodities and a growing presence within traditional food
                and
                beverage shippers. We believe the advantages of refrigerated
                service include less cyclical freight patterns and a growing
                population that requires food products. We believe the challenges
                of
                refrigerated service include more expensive trailers, the perishable
                nature of commodities, and the fuel and maintenance expense associated
                with refrigeration units. 

Regional
                solo-driver service offering. At December 31, 2005, we operated
                approximately 1,187 tractors in our Regional solo-driver service
                offering.
                The average length of haul was 655 miles in the fourth quarter of
                2005. We
                expect this to decrease over time as our business gravitates toward
                movements with lengths of haul closer to 500-600 miles. According
                to
                industry sources, 70-80% of the freight transported in the United
                States
                moves in distances of less than 500 miles. We expect most freight
                to
                continue to move in regional lengths of haul as manufacturers, retailers,
                and distributors move elements of their supply chains into closer
                proximity. We believe the advantages of regional truckload service
                include
                access to large freight volumes, generally higher rates per mile,
                and
                driver-friendly routes. We believe the disadvantages of regional
                truckload
                service include lower equipment utilization and a greater percentage
                of
                non-revenue miles than in long-haul lanes. We are in the process
                of
                dividing our approximately 1,200 regional truck fleet into sub-regions,
                with the goal of enabling each sub-region to operate with a separate
                General Manager, separate accountability and responsibility, and
                separate
                financial statements. This process requires intricate planning, and
                we
                expect it will take a year or two to complete.

The
      development of our business into four major transportation services has affected
      our operating metrics over time, and we expect that the complete formal
      separation of our business into four distinct service offerings will create
      even
      more change, which we should be able to begin quantifying in 2006. Four measures
      with significant changes are average length of haul, average freight revenue
      per
      total mile (excluding fuel surcharges), average miles per tractor, and average
      freight revenue per tractor per week. A description of each
      follows: 

5 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Average
                Length of Haul. Our average length of haul has decreased significantly
                as
                we have increased the use of solo-driver tractors and increased our
                focus
                on regional markets. Shorter lengths of haul frequently involve higher
                rates per mile from customers, fewer miles per truck, and a greater
                percentage of non-revenue miles caused by re-positioning of
                equipment. 

Average
                Freight Revenue Per Total Mile. Our average freight revenue per mile
                has
                increased sharply. Average freight revenue per loaded mile has increased
                approximately 23% since 2000, while non-revenue miles have also increased.
                This led to a 21.4% increase in average freight revenue per total
                mile.
                All freight revenue per mile numbers exclude fuel surcharge
                revenue. 

Average
                Miles Per Tractor. Our average miles per tractor have decreased because
                of
                a lower percentage of teams in our fleet and a shortening of our
                average
                length of haul. 

Average
                Freight Revenue per Tractor per Week. We use average freight revenue
                per
                tractor per week (which excludes fuel surcharges) as our main measure
                of
                asset productivity. This operating metric takes into account the
                effects
                of freight rates, non-revenue miles, and miles per tractor. In addition,
                because we calculate average freight revenue per tractor using all
                of our
                trucks, it takes into account the percentage of our fleet that is
                unproductive due to lack of drivers, repairs, and other
                factors. 

6 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Customers
      and Operations  

Our
      primary customers include manufacturers and retailers, as well as other
      transportation companies. In 2005, our five largest customers were Wal-Mart
      Stores, Con-Way Transportation, Georgia Pacific, Shaw Industries, and ABX
      Logistics. In the aggregate, subsidiaries of CNF, Inc. including Con-Way
      Transportation and Menlo Worldwide, accounted for approximately 8% of our
      revenue in 2005 and 9% and 11% for 2004 and 2003, respectively. 

We
      operate tractors driven by a single driver and also tractors assigned to
      two-person driver teams. Over time the percentage of our revenue generated
      by
      driver teams has trended down, although the mix will depend on a variety of
      factors over time. Our single driver tractors generally operate in shorter
      lengths of haul, generate fewer miles per tractor, and experience more
      non-revenue miles, but the lower productive miles are expected to be offset
      by
      generally higher revenue per loaded mile and the reduced employee expense of
      compensating only one driver. 

We
      equip
      our tractors with a satellite-based tracking and communications system that
      permits direct communication between drivers and fleet managers. We believe
      that
      this system enhances our operating efficiency and improves customer service
      and
      fleet management. This system also updates the tractor's position every 30
      minutes, which allows us and our customers to locate freight and accurately
      estimate pick-up and delivery times. We also use the system to monitor engine
      idling time, speed, performance, and other factors that affect operating
      efficiency. 

As
      an
      additional service to customers, we offer electronic data interchange and
      Internet-based communication for customer usage in tendering loads and accessing
      information such as cargo position, delivery times, and billing information.
      These services allow us to communicate electronically with our customers,
      permitting real-time information flow, reductions or eliminations in paperwork,
      and the employment of fewer clerical personnel. Since 1997, we have used a
      document imaging system to reduce paperwork and enhance access to important
      information. 

Our
      operations generally follow the seasonal norm for the trucking industry.
      Equipment utilization is usually at its highest from May to August, maintains
      high levels through October, and generally decreases during the winter holiday
      season and as inclement weather impedes operations. 

We
      operate throughout the United States and in parts of Canada and Mexico, with
      substantially all of our revenue generated from within the United States. All
      of
      our assets are domiciled in the United States, and for the past three years
      less
      than one percent of our revenue has been generated in Canada and Mexico. We
      do
      not separately track domestic and foreign revenue from customers or domestic
      and
      foreign long-lived assets, and providing such information would be
      impracticable.  

Drivers
      and Other Personnel  

Driver
      recruitment, retention, and satisfaction are essential to our success, and
      we
      have made each of these factors a primary element of our strategy. We recruit
      both experienced and student drivers as well as independent contractor drivers
      who own and drive their own tractor and provide their services to us under
      lease. We conduct recruiting and/or driver orientation efforts from four of
      our
      locations and we offer ongoing training throughout our terminal network. We
      emphasize driver-friendly operations throughout our organization. We have
      implemented automated programs to signal when a driver is scheduled to be routed
      toward home, and we assign fleet managers specific tractor units, regardless
      of
      geographic region, to foster positive relationships between the drivers and
      their principal contact with us. 

The
      truckload industry has periodically experienced difficulty in attracting and
      retaining enough qualified truck drivers. It is also common for the driver
      turnover rate of individual carriers to exceed 100%. We believe a combination
      of
      greater demand for freight transportation and the alternative careers provided
      by the expansion in economic activity over the past few years, together with
      the
      demographics of the truck driving population and other factors, have exacerbated
      the shortage of drivers recently. This has increased our costs of recruiting,
      training, and retaining drivers and has resulted in more of our trucks lacking
      drivers. During 2005, we implemented new strategies focusing on driver
      satisfaction and ultimately a greater retention rate. Additionally, we hope
      that
      our newly realigned business structure, with separate accountability within
      each
      service offering, will lead to higher retention rates.  

We
      use
      driver teams in a substantial portion of our tractors. Driver teams permit
      us to
      provide expedited service on selected long-haul lanes because driver teams
      are
      able to handle longer routes and drive more miles while remaining within
      Department of Transportation ("DOT") safety rules. The use of teams contributes
      to greater equipment utilization of the tractors they drive than obtained with
      single drivers. The use of teams, however, increases personnel costs as a
      percentage of revenue and the number of drivers we must recruit. At
      December 31, 2005, teams operated approximately 32% of our
      tractors. 

7 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

We
      are
      not a party to a collective bargaining agreement. At December 31, 2005, we
      employed approximately 4,655 drivers and approximately 1,057 non driver
      personnel. At December 31, 2005, we also contracted with approximately 145
      independent contractor drivers. We believe that we have a good relationship
      with
      our personnel. 

Revenue
      Equipment  

We
      believe that operating high quality, late-model equipment contributes to
      operating efficiency, helps us recruit and retain drivers and is an important
      part of providing excellent service to customers. Our policy is to operate
      our
      tractors while under warranty to minimize repair and maintenance costs and
      reduce service interruptions caused by breakdowns. We also order most of our
      equipment with uniform specifications to reduce our parts inventory and
      facilitate maintenance. At December 31, 2005, our tractor fleet had an
      average age of approximately 17 months and our trailer fleet had an average
      age
      of approximately 36 months. All of our tractors were equipped with post October
      2002 emission-compliant engines. Approximately 85% of our trailers were dry
      vans
      and the remainder were temperature-controlled vans. 

Industry
      and Competition   

The
      U.S.
      market for truck-based transportation services generated total revenues of
      approximately $671.2 billion in 2004 and is projected to follow the overall
      U.S. economy. The trucking industry includes both private fleets and "for-hire"
      carriers. We operate in the highly fragmented for-hire truckload segment of
      this
      market, which generated estimated revenues of approximately $312 billion in
      2004. Our dedicated business also competes in the estimated $279 billion
      private fleet portion of the overall trucking market, by seeking to convince
      private fleet operators to outsource or supplement their private fleets. The
      trucking industry accounted for approximately 87.7% of domestic spending on
      freight transportation in 2004. All market estimates contained in this section
      are derived from data compiled by Global Insight, Inc., as reported by the
      American Trucking Associations in    U.S.
      Freight Transportation Forecast to 2016   . 

The
      United States trucking industry is highly competitive and includes thousands
      of
      for-hire motor carriers, none of which dominates the market. Service and price
      are the principal means of competition in the trucking industry. Based on
      Commercial Carrier Journal: The Top 100 (August 2005), the ten largest truckload
      carriers (measured by annual revenue) accounted for approximately
      $16.5 billion, or approximately 5.3%, of annual for-hire truckload revenue
      in 2004. We compete to some extent with railroads and rail-truck intermodal
      service but differentiate our self from rail and rail-truck intermodal carriers
      on the basis of service, because rail and rail-truck intermodal movements are
      subject to delays and disruptions arising from rail yard congestion, which
      reduces the effectiveness of such service to customers with time-definite
      pick-up and delivery schedules. 

We
      believe that the cost and complexity of operating trucking fleets are increasing
      and that economic and competitive pressures are likely to force many smaller
      competitors and private fleets to consolidate or exit the industry over time.
      As
      a result, we believe that larger, better-capitalized companies, like us, will
      have opportunities to increase profit margins and gain market share. In the
      market for dedicated services, we believe that truckload carriers, like us,
      have
      a competitive advantage over truck lessors, who are the other major participants
      in the market, because we can offer lower prices by utilizing back-haul freight
      within our network that traditional lessors may not have. 

Over
      the
      past two years our industry has enjoyed an improved pricing environment compared
      with our historical experience. We believe that stronger freight demand and
      industry-wide capacity constraints caused by a shortage of truck drivers and
      a
      lack of capital investment in additional revenue equipment by many carriers
      contributed to the pricing environment. In addition, many shippers have
      recognized that the costs of operating in our industry have increased
      significantly, particularly in the areas of driver compensation, revenue
      equipment, fuel, and insurance and claims. The pricing environment may not
      remain favorable, and we may not continue to capitalize on any increases in
      pricing. 

Regulation

We
      are
      subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the hauling
      and handling of hazardous materials, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from
      our
      vehicles and facilities, engine idling, and discharge and retention of storm
      water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other
      industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of
      environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks
      of
      fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal,
      among others. We also maintain above-ground bulk fuel storage tanks and fueling
      islands at two of our facilities. A small percentage of our freight consists
      of
      low-grade hazardous substances, which subjects us to a wide array of

8 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

regulations.
      Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks
      and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations,
      if we
      are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if
      there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, or if we are found
      to
      be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to
      liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal
      liability, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business
      and operating results. 

Regulations
      limiting exhaust emissions became effective in 2002 and become progressively
      more restrictive in 2007 and 2010. Engines manufactured after October 2002
      generally cost more, produce lower fuel mileage, and require additional
      maintenance compared with earlier models. Substantially all of our tractors
      are
      equipped with these engines. We expect additional cost increases and possibly
      degradation in fuel mileage from the 2007 engines. These adverse effects,
      combined with the uncertainty as to the reliability of the newly designed diesel
      engines and the residual values of these vehicles, could materially increase
      our
      costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations.  

Fuel
      Availability and Cost  

We
      actively manage our fuel costs by routing our drivers through fuel centers
      with
      which we have negotiated volume discounts. During 2005, the cost of fuel was
      in
      the range at which we received fuel surcharges. Even with the fuel surcharges,
      the high price of fuel decreased our profitability. Although we historically
      have been able to pass through a substantial part of increases in fuel prices
      and taxes to customers in the form of higher rates and surcharges, the increases
      usually are not fully recovered. We do not collect surcharges on fuel used
      for
      non-revenue or out-of-route miles, or for fuel used by refrigeration units
      or
      while the tractor is idling.  

Seasonality  

Our
      tractor productivity decreases during the winter season because inclement
      weather impedes operations, and some shippers reduce their shipments after
      the
      winter holiday season. Revenue can also be affected by bad weather and holidays,
      since revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers. At
      the
      same time, operating expenses increase, with fuel efficiency declining because
      of engine idling and harsh weather creating higher accident frequency, increased
      claims, and more equipment repairs. We can also suffer short-term impacts from
      weather-related events such as hurricanes, blizzards, ice storms, and floods
      that could harm our results or make our results more volatile.  

Additional
      Information  

At
      December 31, 2005, our corporate structure included Covenant Transport, Inc.,
      a
      Nevada holding company organized in May 1994, and its wholly owned subsidiaries:
      Covenant Transport, Inc., a Tennessee corporation; Covenant Asset Management,
      Inc., a Nevada corporation; CIP, Inc., a Nevada corporation; Covenant.com,
      Inc.,
      a Nevada corporation; Southern Refrigerated Transport, Inc., an Arkansas
      corporation; Harold Ives Trucking Co., an Arkansas corporation; CVTI Receivables
      Corp. ("CRC"), a Nevada corporation; and Volunteer Insurance Limited, a Cayman
      Island company. Terminal Truck Broker, Inc. and Tony Smith Trucking, Inc.,
      both
      Arkansas corporations and former subsidiaries, were dissolved in September
      2003
      and December 2004, respectively.  

Our
      headquarters are located at 400 Birmingham Highway, Chattanooga, Tennessee
      37419, and our website address is www.covenanttransport.com. Our Annual Report
      on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K,
      and
      all other reports we file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") are available
      free of charge through our website. Information contained in or available
      through our website is not incorporated by reference into, and you should not
      consider such information to be part of, this Annual Report on Form
      10-K. 

9 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

ITEM
      1A .          RISK
      FACTORS  

Factors
      That May Affect Future Results  

Our
      future results may be affected by a number of factors over which we have little
      or no control. The following issues, uncertainties, and risks, among others,
      should be considered in evaluating our business and growth outlook. 

Our
      business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely
      out of our control, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on
      our
      operating results.     

Our
      business is dependent on a number of factors that may have a materially adverse
      effect on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control.
      Some
      of the most significant of these factors include excess tractor and trailer
      capacity in the trucking industry, declines in the resale value of used
      equipment, strikes or other work stoppages, increases in interest rates, fuel
      taxes, tolls, and license and registration fees, and rising costs of
      healthcare. 

We
      also
      are affected by recessionary economic cycles, changes in customers' inventory
      levels, and downturns in customers' business cycles, particularly in market
      segments and industries, such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a
      significant concentration of customers, and regions of the country, such as
      California, Texas, and the Southeast, where we have a significant amount of
      business. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers and their
      ability to pay for our services. Customers encountering adverse economic
      conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to
      increase our allowance for doubtful accounts.  

In
      addition, it is not possible to predict the effects of actual or threatened
      terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against any
      foreign state, heightened security requirements, or other related events. Such
      events, however, could negatively impact the economy and consumer confidence
      in
      the United States. Such events could also have a materially adverse effect
      on
      our future results of operations.    

We
      may not be successful in improving or maintaining our profitability.

During
      2005 we adopted a strategic plan designed to improve our profitability. The
      plan
      generally involves organizing our operations around four distinct service
      offerings. Within each service offering we expect changes to items such as
      the
      customer base, rate structure, routes served, driver domiciles, management,
      reporting structure, and operating procedures. These changes, and others that
      we
      did not expect, will present significant challenges, including, but not limited
      to, the following: 

Developing
                management depth to oversee the service offerings and also manage
                regional
                terminals within the service offerings; 

Adapting
                our personnel to new strategies, policies, and procedures, including
                more
                distributed decision making; 

Maintaining
                customer relationships and freight volumes while changing routes,
                pricing,
                and other aspects of our operations; 

Maintaining
                a sufficient number of qualified drivers while changing routes, policies,
                procedures, and management structures; 

Controlling
                headcount and expenses generally during a transition that may entail
                a
                period of duplication of some functions; and 

Improving
                or eliminating processes, functions, services, or other items that
                are
                identified as substandard. 

We
      self-insure for a significant portion of our claims exposure, which could
      significantly increase the volatility of, and decrease the amount of, our
      earnings.     

Our
      future insurance and claims expense could reduce our earnings and make our
      earnings more volatile. We self-insure for a significant portion of our claims
      exposure and related expenses. We accrue amounts for liabilities based on our
      assessment of claims that arise and our insurance coverage for the periods
      in
      which the claims arise, and we evaluate and revise these accruals from
      time-to-time based on additional information. We do not currently maintain
      directors and officers' insurance coverage, although we are obligated to
      indemnify them against certain liabilities they may incur while serving in
      such
      capacities. Because of our significant self-insured amounts, we have significant
      exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims and the risk
      of
      being required to accrue or  

10 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

pay
      additional amounts if the claims prove to be more severe than originally
      assessed. Historically, we have had to adjust our reserves on several occasions,
      and future adjustments may occur.  

We
      maintain insurance above the amounts for which we self-insure with licensed
      insurance carriers. If any claim were to exceed our coverage, we would bear
      the
      excess, in addition to our other self-insured amounts. Our insurance and claims
      expense could increase when our current coverages expire, or we could raise
      our
      self-insured retention. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits
      are
      sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or
      more
      claims could exceed those limits. Insurance carriers recently have been raising
      premiums for many businesses, including trucking companies. As a result, our
      insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could find it necessary
      to
      again raise our self-insured retention or decrease our aggregate coverage limits
      when our policies are renewed or replaced. Our operating results and financial
      condition may be adversely affected if these expenses increase, if we experience
      a claim in excess of our coverage limits, if we experience a claim for which
      we
      do not have coverage, or if we have to increase our reserves again.

Ongoing
      insurance requirements could constrain our borrowing
      capacity.     

The
      increase in our self-insured retention has caused our outstanding undrawn
      letters of credit in favor of insurance companies to increase. We expect
      outstanding letters of credit to increase in the future. Outstanding letters
      of
      credit reduce the available borrowings under our credit agreement, which could
      negatively affect our liquidity should we need to increase our borrowings in
      the
      future.  

We
      operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and numerous
      competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain or improve our
      profitability.   

These
      factors include: 

We
                compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and,
                to a
                lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers, railroads, and
                other
                transportation companies, many of which have more equipment and greater
                capital resources than we do.  

Many
                of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain
                business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the
                economy,
                which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates
                or
                maintain significant growth in our business.  

Many
                of our customers are other transportation companies, and they may
                decide
                to transport their own freight.  

Many
                customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting "core
                carriers" as approved service providers, and in some instances we
                may not
                be selected.  

Many
                customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their
                shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result
                in
                the loss of some business to competitors.  

The
                trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create other
                large
                carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages
                relating to their size.  

Advances
                in technology require increased investments to remain competitive,
                and our
                customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover
                the
                cost of these investments.  

Competition
                from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may
                adversely affect our customer relationships and freight rates.

Economies
                of scale that may be passed on to smaller carriers by procurement
                aggregation providers may improve their ability to compete with us.

We
      derive a significant portion of our revenue from our major customers, the loss
      of one or more of which could have a materially adverse effect on our
      business.     

A
      significant portion of our revenue is generated from our major customers.
      Generally, we do not have long term contractual relationships with our major
      customers, and our customers may not continue to use our services or continue
      to
      use our services at the same levels. For some of our customers, we have entered
      into multi-year contracts, and the rates may not remain advantageous. A
      reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major
      customers could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating
      results.  

11 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Increases
      in driver compensation or difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified
      drivers could adversely affect our profitability.     

Like
      many
      truckload carriers, we experience substantial difficulty in attracting and
      retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers, including independent
      contractors. In addition, due in part to current economic conditions, including
      the higher cost of fuel, insurance, and tractors, the available pool of
      independent contractor drivers has been declining. Because of the shortage
      of
      qualified drivers, the availability of alternative jobs, and intense competition
      for drivers from other trucking companies, we expect to continue to face
      difficulty increasing the number of our drivers, including independent
      contractor drivers. The compensation we offer our drivers and independent
      contractors is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to
      continue to increase driver and independent contractor compensation in future
      periods. In addition, we and our industry suffer from a high turnover rate
      of
      drivers. Our high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial
      number of drivers in order to operate existing revenue equipment. If we are
      unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of drivers, we
      could be required to adjust our compensation packages, let trucks sit idle,
      or
      operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all
      of
      which would adversely affect our growth and profitability.  

We
      operate in a highly regulated industry, and increased costs of compliance with,
      or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a
      materially adverse effect on our business.   

Our
      operations are regulated and licensed by various U.S., Canadian, and Mexican
      agencies. Our company drivers and independent contractors also must comply
      with
      the safety and fitness regulations of the United States DOT, including those
      relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Such matters as
      weight and equipment dimensions are also subject to U.S. and Canadian
      regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations
      relating to fuel emissions, drivers' hours-of-service, ergonomics, or other
      matters affecting safety or operating methods. Other agencies, such as the
      Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and the Department of Homeland
      Security, or DHS, also regulate our equipment, operations, and drivers. Future
      laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating
      practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us
      to
      incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our
      suppliers who pass the costs onto us through higher prices could adversely
      affect our results of operations.  

The
      DOT,
      through the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Act, or FMCSA, imposes
      safety and fitness regulations on us and our drivers. New rules that limit
      driver hours-of-service were adopted effective January 4, 2004, and then
      modified effective October 1, 2005. The rules effective October 1,
      2005, did not substantially change the existing rules but are likely to create
      a
      moderate reduction in the amount of time available to drivers in longer lengths
      of haul, which could reduce equipment productivity in those lanes. The FMCSA
      is
      studying rules relating to braking distance and on-board data recorders that
      could result in new rules being proposed. We are unable to predict the effect
      of
      any rules that might be proposed, but we expect that any such proposed rules
      would increase costs in our industry, and the on-board recorders potentially
      could decrease productivity and the number of people interested in being
      drivers.  

In
      the
      aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, federal, state, and
      municipal authorities have implemented and continue to implement various
      security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large
      trucks. The Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, of the DHS has
      adopted regulations that require determination by the TSA that each driver
      who
      applies for or renews his license for carrying hazardous materials is not a
      security threat. This could reduce the pool of qualified drivers, which could
      require us to increase driver compensation, limit our fleet growth, or let
      trucks sit idle. These regulations also could complicate the matching of
      available equipment with hazardous material shipments, thereby increasing our
      response time on customer orders and our non-revenue miles. As a result, it
      is
      possible we may fail to meet the needs of our customers or may incur increased
      expenses to do so. These security measures could negatively impact our operating
      results.  

Some
      states and municipalities have begun to restrict the locations and amount of
      time where diesel-powered tractors, such as ours, may idle, in order to reduce
      exhaust emissions. These restrictions could force us to alter our drivers 
behavior, purchase on-board power units that do not require the engine to idle,
      or face a decrease in productivity.  

12 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

We
      have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect our
      profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations
      and
      obtain financing on favorable terms.   

The
      truckload industry is capital intensive, and our policy of operating newer
      equipment requires us to expend significant amounts annually. For the past
      few
      years, we have depended on cash from operations, our credit facilities, and
      operating leases to fund our revenue equipment. If we elect to expand our fleet
      in future periods, our capital needs would increase. We expect to pay for
      projected capital expenditures with cash flows from operations, borrowings
      under
      our line of credit, proceeds under our financing facilities, and operating
      leases of revenue equipment. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from
      operations and obtain financing on favorable terms in the future, we may have
      to
      limit our growth, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or operate
      our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a materially
      adverse effect on our profitability.  

We
      currently have trade-in or fixed residual agreements with certain equipment
      suppliers concerning the substantial majority of our tractor fleet. If the
      suppliers refuse or are unable to meet their financial obligations under these
      agreements, or if we decline to purchase the relevant number of replacement
      units from the suppliers, we may suffer a financial loss upon the disposition
      of
      our equipment.  

Fluctuations
      in the price or availability of fuel, as well as hedging activities, surcharge
      collection, and the volume and terms of diesel fuel purchase commitments, may
      increase our costs of operation, which could materially and adversely affect
      our
      profitability.   

Fuel
      is
      one of our largest operating expenses. Diesel fuel prices fluctuate greatly
      due
      to economic, political, and other factors beyond our control. Fuel also is
      subject to regional pricing differences and often costs more on the West Coast,
      where we have significant operations. From time-to-time we have used hedging
      contracts and volume purchase arrangements to attempt to limit the effect of
      price fluctuations. If we do hedge, we may be forced to make cash payments
      under
      the hedging arrangements. The absence of meaningful fuel price protection
      through these measures, fluctuations in fuel prices, or a shortage of diesel
      fuel, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.

We
      may not make acquisitions in the future, or if we do, we may not be successful
      in our acquisition strategy.     

We
      made
      nine acquisitions between 1996 and 2000, including four between September 1999
      and August 2000. Accordingly, acquisitions have provided a substantial portion
      of our growth. We may not be successful in identifying, negotiating, or
      consummating any future acquisitions. If we fail to make any future
      acquisitions, our growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. Any
      acquisitions we undertake could involve the dilutive issuance of equity
      securities and/or incurring indebtedness. In addition, acquisitions involve
      numerous risks, including difficulties in assimilating the acquired company's
      operations, the diversion of our management's attention from other business
      concerns, risks of entering into markets in which we have had no or only limited
      direct experience, and the potential loss of customers, key employees, and
      drivers of the acquired company, all of which could have a materially adverse
      effect on our business and operating results. If we make acquisitions in the
      future, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired companies
      or
      assets into our business.  

Our
      operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the
      violation of which could result in substantial fines or
      penalties.     

We
      are
      subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the hauling
      and handling of hazardous materials, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from
      our
      vehicles and facilities, engine idling, and discharge and retention of storm
      water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other
      industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of
      environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks
      of
      fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal,
      among others. We also maintain above-ground bulk fuel storage tanks and fueling
      islands at two of our facilities. A small percentage of our freight consists
      of
      low-grade hazardous substances, which subjects us to a wide array of
      regulations. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control
      environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws
      and regulations, if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving
      hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we
      transport, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or
      regulations, we could be subject to liabilities, including substantial fines
      or
      penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a materially
      adverse effect on our business and operating results.  

13 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Regulations
      limiting exhaust emissions became effective in 2002 and become progressively
      more restrictive in 2007 and 2010. Engines manufactured after October 2002
      generally cost more, produce lower fuel mileage, and require additional
      maintenance compared with earlier models. All of our tractors are equipped
      with
      these engines. We expect additional cost increases and possibly degradation
      in
      fuel mileage from the 2007 engines. These adverse effects, combined with the
      uncertainty as to the reliability of the newly designed diesel engines and
      the
      residual values of these vehicles, could increase our costs or otherwise
      adversely affect our business or operations.  

Increased
      prices, reduced productivity, and restricted availability of new revenue
      equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows.

We
      have
      experienced higher prices for new tractors over the past few years, partially
      as
      a result of government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors
      and
      diesel engines, in addition to higher commodity prices and better pricing power
      among equipment manufacturers. More restrictive EPA emissions standards for
      2007
      will require vendors to introduce new engines, and some carriers may seek to
      purchase large numbers of tractors with pre-2007 engines, possibly leading
      to
      shortages. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to continue to obtain
      an adequate supply of new tractors and trailers for these or other reasons.
      As a
      result, we expect to continue to pay increased prices for equipment and incur
      additional expenses and related financing costs for the foreseeable future.
      Furthermore, the new engines are expected to reduce equipment productivity
      and
      lower fuel mileage and, therefore, increase our operating expenses.

We
      have
      agreements covering the terms of trade-in and/or repurchase commitments from
      our
      primary equipment vendors for disposal of a substantial portion of our revenue
      equipment. The prices we expect to receive under these arrangements may be
      higher than the prices we would receive in the open market. We may suffer a
      financial loss upon disposition of our equipment if these vendors refuse or
      are
      unable to meet their financial obligations under these agreements, if we fail
      to
      enter into definitive agreements that reflect the terms we expect, if we fail
      to
      enter into similar arrangements in the future, or if we do not purchase the
      required number of replacement units from the vendors. 

Our
      substantial indebtedness and operating lease obligations could adversely affect
      our ability to respond to changes in our industry or business.

As
      a
      result of our level of debt, operating lease obligations, and encumbered assets:

Our
                vulnerability to adverse economic conditions and competitive pressures
                is
                heightened; 

We
                will continue to be required to dedicate a substantial portion of
                our cash
                flows from operations to operating lease payments and repayment of
                debt,
                limiting the availability of cash for other purposes; 

Our
                flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business
                and
                industry will be limited; 

Our
                profitability is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates because
                some
                of our debt obligations are subject to variable interest rates, and
                future
                borrowings and lease financing arrangements will be affected by any
                such
                fluctuations; 

Our
                ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working
                capital,
                capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other purposes may be limited;
                and 

We
                may be required to issue additional equity securities to raise funds,
                which would dilute the ownership position of our
                stockholders. 

Our
      financing obligations could negatively impact our future operations, our ability
      to satisfy our capital needs, or our ability to engage in other business
      activities. We also cannot assure you that additional financing will be
      available to us when required or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory
      to
      us. 

14 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Our
      revolving credit facility contains restrictive and financial covenants, and
      we
      may be unable to comply with these covenants. A default could result in the
      acceleration of all of our outstanding indebtedness, which could have an adverse
      effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and the
      price of our common stock.   

Our
      credit facilities and our other financing arrangements contain covenants that
      impose certain restrictions and require us to maintain specified financial
      ratios. If we fail to comply with any of these covenants, we will be in default,
      which could cause cross-defaults under other loans or agreements. A default,
      if
      not waived by our lenders, could cause our debt and other obligations to become
      immediately due and payable. To obtain waivers of defaults, we may incur
      significant fees and transaction costs. If waivers of defaults are not obtained
      and acceleration occurs, we may be unable to borrow sufficient additional funds
      to refinance the accelerated debt. Even if new financing is made available
      to
      us, it may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. 

If
      we are unable to retain our key employees, our business, financial condition,
      and results of operations could be harmed.     

We
      are
      highly dependent upon the services of the following key employees: David R.
      Parker, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and President;
      Joey
      B. Hogan, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Michael
      W.
      Miller, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Jeffrey S.
      Paulsen, our   Senior
      Vice President and General Manager  ;
      Jeffrey
      D. Taylor, our   Vice
      President and General Manager  ;
      and
      Jeffery D. Acuff, our   Vice
      President and General Manager  .
      We
      currently do not have employment agreements with any of them. We do maintain
      key-man life insurance on David Parker. The loss of any of their services could
      negatively impact our operations and future profitability. We must continue
      to
      develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of
      improving our profitability.  

Our
      Chief Executive Officer and President and his wife control a large portion
      of
      our stock and have substantial control over us, which could limit your ability
      to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control.

Our
      Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and President, David Parker,
      and
      his wife, Jacqueline Parker, beneficially own approximately 38% of our
      outstanding Class A common stock and 100% of our Class B common stock.
  On
      all
      matters with respect to which our stockholders have a right to vote, including
      the election of directors, each share of Class A common stock is entitled to
      one
      vote, while each share of Class B common stock is entitled to two votes. All
      outstanding shares of Class B common stock are owned by the Parkers and are
      convertible to Class A common stock on a share-for-share basis at the election
      of the Parkers or automatically upon transfer to someone outside of the Parker
      family. This voting structure gives the Parkers approximately 47% of our
      outstanding votes.  

The
      Parkers are able to effectively control decisions requiring stockholder
      approval, including the election of our entire board of directors, the adoption
      of extension of anti-takeover provisions, mergers, and other business
      combinations. This concentration of ownership could limit the price that some
      investors might be willing to pay for the Class A common stock, and could allow
      the Parkers to prevent or delay a change of control, which other stockholders
      may favor. The interests of the Parkers may conflict with the interests of
      other
      holders of Class A common stock, and they may take actions affecting us with
      which you disagree.  

Seasonality
      and the impact of weather affect our operations and
      profitability.  

Our
      tractor productivity decreases during the winter season because inclement
      weather impedes operations, and some shippers reduce their shipments after
      the
      winter holiday season. Revenue can also be affected by bad weather and holidays,
      since revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers. At
      the
      same time, operating expenses increase, with fuel efficiency declining because
      of engine idling and harsh weather creating higher accident frequency, increased
      claims, and more equipment repairs. We can also suffer short-term impacts from
      weather-related events such as hurricanes, blizzards, ice storms, and floods
      that could harm our results or make our results more volatile.  

ITEM
      1B .          UNRESOLVED
      STAFF COMMENTS  

None. 

15 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

ITEM
      2 .          PROPERTIES

Our
      headquarters and main terminal are located on approximately 180 acres of
      property in Chattanooga, Tennessee. This facility includes an office building
      of
      approximately 182,000 square feet, a maintenance facility of approximately
      65,000 square feet, a body shop of approximately 16,600 square feet, and a
      truck
      wash. We maintain sixteen terminals located on our major traffic lanes in or
      near the cities listed below. These terminals provide a base for drivers in
      proximity to their homes, a transfer location for trailer relays on
      transcontinental routes, parking space for equipment dispatch, and the other
      uses indicated below.  

Terminal
                Locations  

Maintenance  

Recruiting/  

                 Orientation  

Sales  

Ownership  

Chattanooga,
                Tennessee 

x 

x 

x 

Owned 

Dalton,
                Georgia 

x 

Owned 

Charlotte,
                North Carolina 

Leased 

Dayton,
                Ohio 

Leased 

Sayreville,
                New Jersey 

Leased 

Indianapolis,
                Indiana 

Leased 

Ashdown,
                Arkansas 

x 

x 

x 

Owned 

Little
                Rock, Arkansas 

Owned 

Oklahoma
                City, Oklahoma 

Owned 

Hutchins,
                Texas 

x 

x 

Owned 

El
                Paso, Texas 

x

Leased 

Columbus,
                Ohio 

Leased 

French
                Camp, California 

Leased 

Fontana,
                California 

x 

Leased 

Long
                Beach, California 

Owned 

Pomona,
                California 

x 

Owned 

ITEM
      3 .          LEGAL
      PROCEEDINGS  

From
      time
      to time we are a party to routine litigation arising in the ordinary course
      of
      business, most of which involves claims for personal injury and property damage
      incurred in connection with the transportation of freight, and administrative
      proceedings incidental to our business. We maintain insurance to cover
      liabilities arising from the transportation of freight for amounts in excess
      of
      certain self-insured retentions.  

On
      March
      7, 2003, an accident occurred in Wisconsin involving a vehicle and one of our
      tractors. Two adult occupants of the vehicle were killed in the accident. The
      only other occupant of the vehicle was a child, who survived with little
      apparent injury. Suit was filed in the United States District Court in Minnesota
      by heirs of one of the decedents against us and our driver under the style:
         Bill
      Kayachitch and Susan Kayachitch as co-trustees for the heirs and next of kin
      of
      Souvorachak Kayachitch, deceased, vs. Julie Robinson and Covenant Transport,
      Inc.   
      The case
      was settled on October 10, 2005 at a level below the aggregate coverage limits
      of our insurance policies and was formally dismissed in February 2006.
      Representatives of the child may file an additional suit against us.

On
      August
      6, 2004, a two vehicle accident occurred in Texas involving a pick-up truck
      towing a flatbed trailer and one of our tractors. The pick-up truck was occupied
      by two people and the trailer by four people. Our tractor struck the rear of
      the
      trailer, and the driver of the tractor is alleged to have left the scene of
      the
      accident. One occupant of the trailer was killed and others were injured. A
      demand on behalf of the plaintiffs for $20.0 million has been made against
      us.
      On October 19, 2004, suit was filed in the District Court of Hudspeth
      County, Texas, 394   th   
      District, against us and our driver under the style:    Toni
      Ann Zertuche et. al. vs. Covenant Transport, Inc. and Harold Dennis
      Mitchell.   
      Mediation between the parties to the litigation occurred in May 2005. During
      the
      third quarter, the claim was settled, and the suit has been
      dismissed. 

ITEM
      4 .          SUBMISSION
      OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

During
      the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2005, no matters were
      submitted to a vote of security holders. 

16 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

PART
      II  

ITEM
      5 .          MARKET
      FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES
      OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

Price
      Range of Common Stock  

Our
      Class
      A common stock is traded on the NASDAQ National Market, under the symbol "CVTI."
      The following table sets forth for the calendar periods indicated the range
      of
      high and low bid price for our Class A common stock as reported by NASDAQ from
      January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2005. 

As
      of
      March 1, 2006, we had approximately 55 stockholders of record of our
      Class A common stock. However, we estimate our actual number of stockholders
      is
      much higher because a substantial number of our shares are held of record by
      brokers or dealers for their customers in street names. 

Dividend
      Policy  

We
      have
      never declared and paid a cash dividend on our Class A or Class B
      common stock. It is the current intention of our Board of Directors to continue
      to retain earnings to finance our business and reduce our indebtedness rather
      than to pay dividends. The payment of cash dividends is currently limited by
      our
      credit agreements. Future payments of cash dividends will depend upon our
      financial condition, results of operations, capital commitments, restrictions
      under then-existing agreements, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board
      of Directors. 

See
      "Equity Compensation Plan Information" under Item 11 in Part III of this Annual
      Report for certain information concerning shares of our Class A common
      stock authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans. 

17 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

ITEM
      6 .          SELECTED
      FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA  

18 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

(1) 

Excludes
                fuel surcharge revenue. 

(2) 

Includes
                monthly rental tractors and tractors provided by
                owner-operators. 

(3) 

Excludes
                monthly rental trailers. 

19 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

ITEM
      7 .          MANAGEMENT'S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
      OPERATIONS  

OVERVIEW  

We
      are
      one of the ten largest truckload carriers in the United States measured by
      revenue according to    Transport
      Topics,   
      a
      publication of the American Trucking Associations. We focus on targeted markets
      where we believe our service standards can provide a competitive advantage.
      We
      are in the process of building our operations around four major transportation
      service offerings: Expedited team service, Refrigerated service, Dedicated
      service, and Regional solo-driver service. We are a major carrier for
      transportation companies such as freight forwarders, less-than-truckload
      carriers, and third-party logistics providers that require a high level of
      service to support their businesses, as well as for traditional truckload
      customers such as manufacturers and retailers. 

Recent
      Results and Year-End Financial Condition  

For
      the
      year ended December 31, 2005, total revenue increased 6.5%, to
      $643.1 million from $603.6 million during 2004. The increase was
      attributable to an increase in fuel surcharge revenue. Freight revenue, which
      excludes revenue from fuel surcharges, decreased 0.5%, to $555.4 million in
      2005
      from $558.5 million in 2004. We generated net income of $5.2 million,
      or $0.37 per diluted share, for the year compared with $3.4 million, or
      $0.23 per diluted share, for 2004. Our 2004 results included a pretax
      $19.6 million adjustment to claims reserves, which reduced earnings per
      diluted share by approximately $0.82. 

Excluding
      the effect of the claims adjustment in 2004 described above, our after-tax
      costs
      increased approximately 8.3% on a per-mile basis in 2005, or approximately
      $0.103 per mile, compared to 2004. The main factors were an approximately
      $.08 per mile increase in compensation expense, driven primarily by increases
      in
      driver pay in the second half of 2004 and in March and April of 2005, an
      approximately $0.015 per mile increase in insurance and claims expense primarily
      based on higher actuarial accrual rates, and a $.01 per mile increase in
      fuel cost net of fuel surcharge recovery. In addition, the decrease in miles
      per
      tractor affected our cost per mile in fixed costs.  

During
      2005 we experienced significant fluctuations in our financial results. In the
      first half of 2005, we experienced a meaningful reduction in freight volumes
      from our customers. We believe the reduction in freight volumes was attributable
      to the frequency and magnitude of rate increases we had implemented in 2004,
      particularly equipment detention charges. In the second half of 2005, we began
      to regain freight volumes. By the fourth quarter, our operating results improved
      significantly. The table below reflects the quarterly fluctuations in freight
      revenue per tractor per week, our main measure of asset productivity, and
      diluted earnings per share. 

At
      December 31, 2005, our total balance sheet debt was $80.3 million and
      our total stockholders' equity was $189.7 million, for a total
      debt-to-capitalization ratio of 29.7% and a book value of $13.57 per share.
      We
      also had $73.9 million in undrawn letters of credit posted with insurance
      carriers. At December 31, 2005, we had a combined $32 million of
      available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility and
      securitization facility. 

Revenue  

We
      generate substantially all of our revenue by transporting freight for our
      customers. Generally, we are paid by the mile or by the load for our services.
      The main factors that affect our revenue are the revenue per mile we receive
      from our customers, the percentage of miles for which we are compensated, the
      number of tractors operating, and the number of miles we generate with our
      equipment. These factors relate to, among other things, the U.S. economy,
      inventory levels, the level of truck capacity in our markets, specific customer
      demand, the percentage of team-driven tractors in our fleet, driver
      availability, and our average length of haul.  

We
      also
      derive revenue from fuel surcharges, loading and unloading activities, equipment
      detention, and other accessorial services. Prior to 2004, we measured freight
      revenue, before fuel and accessorial surcharges, in addition to total revenue.
      In 2004, we reclassified accessorial revenue, other than fuel surcharges, into
      freight revenue, and our historical financial statements have been conformed
      to
      this presentation. We continue to measure revenue before fuel surcharges, or
       freight revenue,  because we believe that fuel surcharges tend to be a volatile
      source of revenue.  

20 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

We
      believe the exclusion of fuel surcharges affords a more consistent basis for
      comparing the results of operations from period to period.  

We
      operate tractors driven by a single driver and also tractors assigned to
      two-person driver teams. Over time, the percentage of our revenue generated
      by
      driver teams has trended down, although the mix depends on a variety of factors
      over time. Our single driver tractors generally operate in shorter lengths
      of
      haul, generate fewer miles per tractor, and experience more non-revenue miles,
      but the lower productive miles are expected to be offset by generally higher
      revenue per loaded mile and the reduced expense of compensating only one driver.
      We expect operating statistics and expenses to shift with the mix of single
      and
      team operations. 

Expenses
      and Profitability  

The
      main
      factors that impact our profitability on the expense side are the variable
      costs
      of transporting freight for our customers. These costs include fuel expense,
      driver-related expenses, such as wages, benefits, training, and recruitment,
      and
      independent contractor costs, which we record as purchased transportation.
      Expenses that have both fixed and variable components include maintenance and
      tire expense and our total cost of insurance and claims. These expenses
      generally vary with the miles we travel, but also have a controllable component
      based on safety, fleet age, efficiency, and other factors. Our main fixed cost
      is the acquisition and financing of long-term assets, primarily revenue
      equipment and operating terminals. In addition, we have other mostly fixed
      costs, such as our non-driver personnel.  

The
      trucking industry has experienced significant increases in expenses over the
      past three years, in particular those relating to equipment costs, driver
      compensation, insurance, and fuel. As the U.S. economy has expanded, many
      trucking companies have been able to raise freight rates to cover the increased
      costs. This is primarily due to a favorable relationship between freight demand
      and industry-wide capacity of tractors and trailers. For 2005, our costs
      (excluding the effect of the claims adjustment in the fourth quarter of 2004)
      rose faster than revenue because of the company-specific decline in freight
      volumes during the first half of 2005. We believe the reason for the decline
      has
      been addressed. Accordingly, we expect increases in revenue per tractor to
      exceed increases in costs so long as freight demand continues to exceed truck
      capacity, excluding any additional company-specific issues we may face,
      including issues we may encounter during our business realignment. 

Revenue
      Equipment  

We
      operate approximately 3,471 tractors and 8,565 trailers. Of our tractors, at
      December 31, 2005, approximately 2,186 were owned, 1,140 were financed
      under operating leases, and 145 were provided by independent contractors, who
      own and drive their own tractors. Of our trailers, at December 31, 2005,
      approximately 1,020 were owned and approximately 7,545 were financed under
      operating leases. We finance a portion of our tractor fleet and most of our
      trailer fleet with off-balance sheet operating leases. These leases generally
      run for a period of three years for tractors and five to seven years for
      trailers.  

In
      September 2005, we entered into an agreement with a finance company to lease
      approximately 1,800 model-year 2006 and 2007 dry van trailers under seven-year
      walk away leases. These trailers will replace approximately 1,200 model-years
      1998 and 1999 dry van trailers and approximately 600 model-year 2000 dry van
      trailers. The 1,800 trailers will be replaced over the next year as new trailers
      are delivered. After the completion of this transaction, our oldest trailers
      in
      operation will be 2001 model-year trailers. 

For
      2006,
      we plan to replace approximately 2,100 tractors, or approximately 65% of our
      company-owned tractor fleet. This is approximately twice the number of tractors
      we would normally replace and will result in a substantial increase over normal
      replacement capital expenditures. We are increasing our purchases in 2006 to
      afford us flexibility to evaluate the cost and performance of tractors equipped
      with engines that meet 2007 emissions requirements. 

Independent
      contractors (owner-operators) provide a tractor and a driver and are responsible
      for all operating expenses in exchange for a fixed payment per mile. We do
      not
      have the capital outlay of purchasing the tractor. The payments to independent
      contractors and the financing of equipment under operating leases are recorded
      in revenue equipment rentals and purchased transportation. Expenses associated
      with owned equipment, such as interest and depreciation, are not incurred,
      and
      for independent contractor-tractors, driver compensation, fuel, and other
      expenses are not incurred. Because obtaining equipment from independent
      contractors and under operating leases effectively shifts financing expenses
      from interest to "above the line" operating expenses, we evaluate our efficiency
      using net margin as well as operating ratio.  

21 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Business
      Realignment and Outlook for 2006  

In
      mid-2005, we began the process of formally realigning our operations around
      four
      major transportation service offerings: Expedited team service, Refrigerated
      service, Dedicated service, and Regional solo-driver service. The realignment
      has involved significant changes, including selecting and installing new
      leadership over each service offering, reassigning personnel, allocating
      tractors and trailers to each service offering, migrating operations to
      preferred traffic lanes for each service offering, acquainting drivers and
      customers to new lanes, contacts, and procedures, and developing systems to
      support, measure, and hold accountable each service offering. Although we have
      made significant progress, this process will continue at least into
      2007. 

Initial
      results of the business realignment on each service offering include the
      following: 

Expedited
                team service. Focused attention on teams has produced a substantial
                increase in average length of haul, average miles per tractor, and
                average
                freight revenue per tractor. As a result of greater productivity,
                the
                previous decline in team-driven tractors has
                stabilized. 

Refrigerated
                service. Prioritizing certain lanes and the allocation of teams to
                this
                service offering increased average length of haul, average miles
                per
                tractor, and average revenue per tractor. In addition, we are increasing
                the allocation of tractors to this service offering. 

Dedicated
                service. There has been essentially no change in Dedicated service
                because
                of the longer contract duration. In addition, we are continuing to
                evaluate individual candidates to manage this business. 

Regional
                solo-driver service. This service offering is our largest and is
                in the
                beginning stages of significant changes in its operating lanes and
                territories, freight mix, personnel, and policies and procedures.
                Over the
                long term we expect these changes to result in a shorter average
                length of
                haul and an increase in average freight revenue per tractor. However,
                interim results may fluctuate substantially. We expect to allocate
                trucks
                to other service offerings until the operating results of this service
                offering improve and become more
                consistent. 

Our
      business realignment presents numerous challenges and may result in volatile
      financial performance or periods of unprofitable results. We believe our results
      will be most volatile during the first half of 2006. However, fluctuations
      in
      results may be ongoing as major activities within the realignment will continue
      at least into 2007. For 2006, we are expecting a continuation of the favorable
      relationship between freight demand and trucking capacity that has allowed
      significant rate increases over the past two years. We also expect average
      fuel
      prices to approximate the average levels in 2005. Based on these expectations
      and assuming meaningful progress with our realignment, our financial performance
      in 2006 should improve significantly compared with 2005, with most of the
      improvement coming in the second half of the year. 

22 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

RESULTS
      OF OPERATIONS  

For
      comparison purposes in the table below, we use freight revenue, or total revenue
      less fuel surcharges, in addition to total revenue when discussing changes
      as a
      percentage of revenue. We believe excluding this sometimes volatile source
      of
      revenue affords a more consistent basis for comparing our results of operations
      from period to period. Freight revenue excludes $87.6 million, $45.2,
      million and $26.8 million of fuel surcharges in each of 2005, 2004, and
      2003, respectively. 

The
      following table sets forth the percentage relationship of certain items to
      total
      revenue and freight revenue: 

Comparison
      of Year Ended December 31, 2005 to Year Ended December 31,
      2004  

Total
      revenue increased $39.4 million, or 6.5%, to $643.1 million in 2005,
      from $603.6 million in 2004. Freight revenue excludes $87.6 million of
      fuel surcharge revenue in 2005 and $45.2 million in 2004. For comparison
      purposes, in the discussion below we use freight revenue when discussing changes
      as a percentage of revenue. We believe removing this sometimes volatile source
      of revenue affords a more consistent basis for comparing the results of
      operations from period to period. 

Freight
      revenue (total revenue less fuel surcharges) decreased $3.0 million (0.5%),
      to $555.4 million in 2005, from $558.5 million in 2004. Average
      freight revenue per tractor per week, a key statistic that we use to evaluate
      our asset productivity, increased 0.6% to $3,013 in 2005 from $2,995 in 2004.
      Our average freight revenue per tractor per week increase was primarily
      generated by a 7.6% increase in average freight revenue per loaded mile, which
      was partially offset by lower miles per tractor and an increase in our
      percentage of non-revenue miles. Our rates have increased primarily due to
      a
      strong freight market, tightened truck capacity, a decrease in our average
      length of haul, and an improvement in our freight selection. Weighted average
      tractors decreased 0.6% to 3,535 in 2005 from 3,558 in 2004. We have elected
      to
      constrain the size of our tractor fleet until fleet production and profitability
      improve.  

23 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Salaries,
          wages, and related expenses increased $16.4 million, or 7.3%, to
          $242.2 million in 2005, from $225.8 million in 2004. As a percentage
          of freight revenue, salaries, wages, and related expenses increased to
          43.6% in
          2005, from 40.4% in 2004. Driver pay increased $14.7 million, to 30.4% of
          freight revenue in 2005 from 27.7% of freight revenue in 2004. The increase
          was
          largely attributable to mileage pay increases and new retention bonus programs.
          A driver retention bonus program went into effect in September 2004, and
          mileage
          pay increases went into effect in March and April 2005. If the shortage
          of
          qualified drivers continues, additional driver pay increases may be necessary
          in
          the future. Our payroll expense for employees other than over-the-road
          drivers
          remained relatively constant at 7.0% of freight revenue in 2005 and 2004.
          Health
          insurance, employer paid taxes, workers' compensation, and other employee
          benefits increased to 6.2% of freight revenue in 2005 from 5.8% of freight
          revenue in 2004 partially due to higher payroll taxes and an increase in
          our
          health insurance claims.  

Fuel
        expense, net of fuel surcharge revenue of $87.6 million in 2005 and
        $45.2 million in 2004, remained relatively constant at $83.0 million
        in 2005 and $82.6 million in 2004. Fuel prices increased sharply during
        2005 from already high levels during 2004. As a percentage of freight revenue,
        net fuel expense remained relatively constant at 14.9% in 2005 and 14.8%
        in
        2004. Our fuel surcharge program was able to offset a substantial portion
        of the
        higher fuel prices. Fuel surcharges amounted to $0.214 per revenue mile in
        2005
        and $0.103 per revenue mile in 2004. Fuel costs may be affected in the future
        by
        price fluctuations, supply shortages, volume purchase commitments, the terms
        and
        collectibility of fuel surcharges, the percentage of miles driven by independent
        contractors, and lower fuel mileage due to government-mandated emissions
        standards that have resulted in less fuel efficient engines. At
        December 31, 2005, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our
        exposure to fuel price fluctuations. 

Operations
      and maintenance, which consists primarily of vehicle maintenance and repairs
      and
      driver recruitment expenses, increased $3.1 million, or 10.0%, to
      $33.6 million in 2005, from $30.6 million in 2004. As a percentage of
      freight revenue, operations and maintenance increased to 6.1% of freight revenue
      from 5.5% in 2004. The increase resulted in part from increased tire costs,
      unloading costs, and increased driver recruiting expense due to a tighter supply
      of drivers.  

Revenue
      equipment rentals and purchased transportation decreased $8.2 million, or
      11.8%, to $61.7 million in 2005 from $69.9 million in 2004. The
      decrease is due primarily to a decrease in the percentage of our total miles
      driven by independent contractors, which more than offset an increase in revenue
      equipment rental payments. Payments to independent contractors decreased $13.2
      million, to $21.5 million in 2005 from $34.7 million in 2004, mainly due to
      a
      decrease in the independent contractor fleet to an average of 186 trucks in
      2005
      from an average of 301 in 2004. We have experienced difficulty in retaining
      our
      independent contractors due to the challenging operating conditions. Tractor
      and
      trailer equipment rental and other related amounts increased $4.9 million,
      to $40.2 million in 2005, compared to $35.3 million in 2004. We had
      approximately 1,140 tractors and 7,545 trailers under operating leases at
      December 31, 2005, compared with 1,320 tractors and 7,668 trailers financed
      at
      December 31, 2004. Although we ended the year with fewer pieces of equipment
      financed through lease agreements, during 2005 we averaged more equipment
      financed through lease agreements than during 2004. 

Operating
      taxes and licenses decreased $0.8 million, or 5.5%, to $13.4 million
      in 2005 from $14.2 million in 2004. The decrease partially resulted from a
      property tax settlement of approximately $0.4 million relating to the 2002
      tax
      year. As a percentage of freight revenue, operating taxes and licenses remained
      essentially constant at 2.4% in 2005 and 2.5% in 2004. 

Insurance
      and claims, consisting primarily of premiums and deductible amounts for
      liability, physical damage, and cargo damage insurance and claims, decreased
      $13.8 million, or 25.2%, to $41.0 million in 2005 from
      $54.8 million in 2004. As a percentage of freight revenue, insurance and
      claims expense decreased to 7.4% in 2005 from 9.8% in 2004. During the fourth
      quarter of 2004, we recorded an $18.0 million non-cash increase to our
      reserves for casualty claims. Excluding the $18.0 million increase to
      reserves, insurance and claims increased to 7.4% as a percentage of freight
      revenue from 6.6% as a percentage of freight revenue. The increase as a
      percentage of freight revenue was attributable to a higher actuarial accrual
      rate based on historical trends. Insurance and claims expense will vary based
      on
      the frequency and severity of claims, premium expenses, and our level of
      self-insured retention and may cause our insurance and claims expense to be
      higher or more volatile in future periods than in historical periods.

During
      the first quarter of 2005, we renewed our casualty program through February
      2007. In general, for casualty claims after March 1, 2005, we have
      insurance coverage up to $50.0 million per claim. We are self-insured for
      personal injury and property damage claims for amounts up to $2.0 million
      per occurrence, subject to an additional $2.0 million self-insured
      aggregate amount, which results in the total self-insured retention of up to
      $4.0 million until the $2.0 million aggregate threshold is reached. We
      are self-insured for cargo loss and damage claims for amounts up to
      $1.0 million per occurrence.  

24 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Communications
        and utilities remained relatively constant at $6.6 million in 2005 and
        $6.5 million in 2004. As a percentage of freight revenue, communications
        and utilities remained constant at 1.2% in 2005 and 2004. 

General
        supplies and expenses, consisting primarily of headquarters and other terminal
        facilities expenses, increased $2.7 million, or 17.7%, to
        $17.8 million in 2005, from $15.1 million in 2004. As a percentage of
        freight revenue, general supplies and expenses increased to 3.2% in 2005
        from
        2.7% in 2004. The increase is due to our paying for physicals and drug tests
        for
        our drivers, which in the past were paid for by the drivers, an increase
        in our
        travel   expenses
        related to customer visits, and an increase in our bad debt allowance related
        to
        two customers. One customer is in mediation and the other customer announced
        a
        planned liquidation.  

Depreciation
      and amortization expense, consisting primarily of depreciation of revenue
      equipment, decreased $5.9 million, or 13.1%, to $39.1 million in 2005
      from $45.0 million in 2004. As a percentage of freight revenue,
      depreciation and amortization decreased to 7.0% in 2005 from 8.1% in 2004.
      Depreciation and amortization expense is net of any gain or loss on the disposal
      of tractors and trailers. The decrease in depreciation as a percentage of
      revenue was attributable to gains on the disposal of tractors and trailers
      of
      approximately $0.7 million in 2005 compared to a loss of $3.5 million
      in 2004, an increase in the average percentage of our tractor and trailer fleet
      comprised of leased equipment, and increases in revenue per tractor, which
      more
      efficiently spread this fixed cost. Depreciation expense is expected to increase
      as a percentage of revenue in future periods, due to a shift toward owned rather
      than leased equipment, and increased preparation costs related to a large
      planned trade package for 2006 of approximately 1,800 trailers and approximately
      2,000 tractors. The trade-in preparation costs will be reflected as a component
      of gains (losses) on disposition of assets. 

Amortization
      expense relates to deferred debt costs incurred and covenants not to compete
      from five acquisitions. Goodwill amortization ceased beginning January 1, 2002,
      in accordance with SFAS No. 142,    Goodwill
      and Other Intangible Assets.   
      We
      evaluate goodwill and certain intangibles for impairment annually. During the
      second quarter of 2005, we tested our goodwill ($11.5 million) for impairment
      and found no impairment.  

The
      other
      expense category includes interest expense, interest income, and pre-tax
      non-cash gains or losses related to the accounting for interest rate derivatives
      under SFAS No. 133. Other expense, net, increased $1.3 million, or 59.7%,
      to $3.4 million in 2005 from $2.1 million in 2004. As a percentage of
      freight revenue, other expense increased to 0.6% in 2005 from 0.4% in 2004.
      The
      increase is primarily due to higher interest rates and higher debt balances.
      In
      2004, we accrued a $0.4 million interest charge related to a proposed disallowed
      IRS transaction. We recorded a $0.4 million pre-tax, non-cash gain in 2005
      compared to a gain of $0.8 million in 2004, related to the accounting for
      interest rate derivatives under SFAS No. 133.  

Income
      tax expense decreased $0.4 million, or 5.3%, to $8.0 million in 2005
      from $8.5 million in 2004. The effective tax rate is different from the
      expected combined tax rate due to permanent differences related to a per diem
      pay structure implemented in 2001. Due to the nondeductible effect of per diem,
      our tax rate will fluctuate in future periods as income fluctuates.

We
        recorded a $0.5 million, net of tax, adjustment related to the cumulative
        effect
        of change in accounting principle. In December 2005, we adopted the provisions
        of FASB Interpretation No. 47,    Accounting
        for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations   ,
        an
        interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 ("FIN 47"). The adoption of FIN
        47
        resulted in our recording an asset retirement obligation for the estimated
        costs for the de-identification obligations in certain of our equipment
        leases. 

As
        a
        result of the factors described above, net income increased $1.8 million,
        or 53.6%, to $5.2 million in 2005 from $3.4 million in 2004. As a
        result of the foregoing, our net margin increased to 0.9% in 2005 from 0.6%
        in
        2004.  

Comparison
      of Year Ended December 31, 2004 to Year Ended December 31,
      2003  

Total
      revenue increased $21.2 million, or 3.6%, to $603.6 million in 2004,
      from $582.5 million in 2003. Freight revenue excludes $45.2 million of
      fuel surcharge revenue in 2004 and $26.8 million in 2003. For comparison
      purposes in the discussion below, we use freight revenue when discussing changes
      as a percentage of revenue. We believe removing this sometimes volatile source
      of revenue affords a more consistent basis for comparing the results of
      operations from period to period. 

25 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Freight
        revenue (total revenue less fuel surcharges) increased $2.8 million (0.5%),
        to $558.5 million in 2004, from $555.7 million in 2003. Revenue per
        tractor per week, a key statistic that we use to evaluate our asset
        productivity, increased 3.4% to $2,995 in 2004 from $2,897 in 2003. Our revenue
        per tractor per week increase was primarily generated by a 10.7% increase
        in
        average freight revenue per loaded mile which was partially offset by lower
        miles per tractor and an increase in our percentage of non-revenue miles.
        Our
        rates have increased primarily due to a strong freight market, tightened
        truck
        capacity, a decrease in our average length of haul, and an improvement in
        our
        freight selection. Weighted average tractors decreased 3.0% to 3,558 in 2004
        from 3,667 in 2003. We have elected to constrain the size of our tractor
        fleet
        until fleet production and profitability improve.  

Salaries,
          wages, and related expenses increased $5.1 million, or 2.3%, to
          $225.8 million in 2004, from $220.7 million in 2003. As a percentage
          of freight revenue, salaries, wages, and related expenses increased to
          40.4% in
          2004, from 39.7% in 2003. Driver pay increased $5.4 million, to 27.7% of
          freight revenue in 2004 from 26.8% of freight revenue in 2003. The increase
          was
          largely attributable to pay increases and new retention bonus programs.
          Driver
          wages are expected to increase as a percentage of revenue in future periods,
          due
          to a planned two-cent per mile pay increase that will go into effect March
          2005
          and an additional one cent per mile pay increase for team drivers in April
          2005.
          If the shortage of qualified drivers continues, additional driver pay increases
          may be necessary in the future. Our payroll expense for employees other
          than
          over the road drivers remained relatively constant at 7.0% of freight revenue
          in
          2004 and 7.2% of freight revenue in 2003. Health insurance, employer paid
          taxes,
          workers' compensation, and other employee benefits remained essentially
          constant
          at 5.8% of freight revenue in 2004 and 5.7% of freight revenue in 2003.
          Workers
          compensation expense increased in 2004 and 2003. During the fourth quarter
          of
          2004, we incurred a $1.5 million non-cash increase to our workers'
          compensation claims reserves as a result of a change of estimated ultimate
          liability. In 2003, we incurred an approximately $723,000 claim relating
          to a
          natural gas explosion in our Indianapolis terminal that injured four
          employees. 

Fuel
      expense, net of fuel surcharge revenue of $45.2 million in 2004 and
      $26.8 million in 2003, remained constant at $82.6 million in 2004 and
      $82.5 million in 2003. Fuel prices increased sharply during 2003 and
      remained at high levels in 2004. As a percentage of freight revenue, net fuel
      expense remained relatively constant at 14.8% in 2004 and 2003. Fuel surcharges
      amounted to $0.103 per revenue mile in 2004 and $0.056 per revenue mile in
      2003,
      which partially offset the increased fuel expense. Fuel costs may be affected
      in
      the future by price fluctuations, volume purchase commitments, the terms and
      collectibility of fuel surcharges, the percentage of miles driven by independent
      contractors, and lower fuel mileage due to government mandated emissions
      standards that have resulted in less fuel efficient engines. At
      December 31, 2004, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our
      exposure to fuel price fluctuations. 

Operations
      and maintenance, which consist primarily of vehicle maintenance, repairs and
      driver recruitment expenses, decreased $9.3 million, or 23.3%, to
      $30.6 million in 2004 from $39.8 million in 2003. As a percentage of
      freight revenue, operations and maintenance expense decreased to 5.5% of freight
      revenue from 7.2% in 2003. The decrease resulted in part from the implementation
      of our equipment plan to change our four-year tractor trade cycle back to a
      period of approximately three years, which has reduced the average age of our
      tractor fleet. Accordingly, maintenance costs have decreased. The average age
      of
      our tractor and trailer fleets decreased substantially during 2003 and remained
      relatively low during 2004. At December 31, 2004, the average age of our
      tractor and trailer fleets was approximately 16 and 35 months, respectively.
      The
      maintenance savings are expected to be partially offset by increased driver
      recruiting expense due to the greater demand for trucking services and a tighter
      supply of drivers.  

Revenue
      equipment rentals and purchased transportation remained essentially constant
      at
      $69.9 million in 2004 and $70.0 million in 2003. During 2004, revenue
      equipment rental expense increased and was offset by a decrease in purchased
      transportation. Revenue equipment rental expense increased $9.9 million, or
      38.8%, to $35.3 million in 2004 from $25.4 million in 2003 as we
      financed more equipment under operating leases. As of December 2004, we had
      financed approximately 1,222 tractors and 7,149 trailers under operating leases
      as compared to 963 tractors and 6,050 trailers under operating leases as of
      December 2003. Payments to independent contractors decreased $9.9 million
      to $34.7 million in 2004 from $44.6 million in 2003, mainly due to a
      decrease in the independent contractor fleet to an average of 301 during 2004
      versus an average of 390 in 2003. We have experienced difficulty in retaining
      our independent contractors due to the challenging operating conditions. In
      an
      effort to retain and attract more independent contractors, we have planned
      a
      four cent per mile increase that will go into effect March 2005. Payments due
      to
      independent contractors could increase as a percentage of revenue in future
      periods if the independent contractor fleet remains at its current level.

26 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Operating
        taxes and licenses remained essentially constant at $14.2 million in 2004
        and $14.4 million in 2003. As a percentage of freight revenue, operating
        taxes and licenses remained essentially constant at 2.5% in 2004 and 2.6%
        in
        2003. 

Insurance
        and claims, consisting primarily of premiums and deductible amounts for
        liability, physical damage, and cargo damage insurance and claims, increased
        $19.4 million (54.7%), to $54.8 million in 2004 from
        $35.5 million in 2003. As a percentage of freight revenue, insurance and
        claims expense increased to 9.8% in 2004 from 6.4% in 2003. During the fourth
        quarter of 2004, we recorded an $18.0 million non-cash increase to our
        reserves for casualty claims. Excluding the effect of that adjustment, insurance
        and claims was 6.6% of freight revenue in 2004 and 6.4% of freight revenue
        in
        2003. Insurance and claims expense will vary based on the frequency and severity
        of claims, the premium expense, and the level of self-insured retention and
        may
        cause our insurance and claims expense to be higher or more volatile in future
        periods than in historical periods. 

Communications
        and utilities decreased $0.7 million, or 9.2%, to $6.5 million in 2004
        from $7.2 million in 2003. As a percentage of freight revenue,
        communications and utilities remained essentially constant at 1.2% in 2004
        and
        1.3% in 2003. 

General
      supplies and expenses, consisting primarily of headquarters and other terminal
      facilities expenses, increased $0.6 million, or 4.2%, to $15.1 million
      in 2004 from $14.5 million in 2003. As a percentage of freight revenue,
      general supplies and expenses remained essentially constant at 2.7% in 2004
      and
      2.6% in 2003. An increase in public company expenses relating to Sarbanes-Oxley
      requirements affected this category of expenses. 

Depreciation
      and amortization expense, consisting primarily of depreciation of revenue
      equipment, increased $2.0 million, or 4.6%, to $45.0 million in 2004
      from $43.0 million in 2003. As a percentage of freight revenue,
      depreciation and amortization increased to 8.1% in 2004 from 7.7% in 2003.
      The
      increase primarily related to trade-in preparation costs and losses on the
      sale
      of equipment. This was partially offset by a decrease in the value of owned
      revenue equipment being depreciated due to more equipment being leased instead
      of purchased. To the extent equipment is leased under operating leases, the
      amounts will be reflected in revenue equipment rentals and purchased
      transportation. Depreciation and amortization expense is net of any gain or
      loss
      on the disposal of tractors and trailers. Loss on the disposal of tractors
      and
      trailers was approximately $3.5 million in 2004 compared to a gain of
      $0.9 million in 2003. 

Other
      expense, net, increased $0.4 million, or 21.4%, to $2.1 million in
      2004 from $1.8 million in 2003. As a percentage of freight revenue, other
      expense remained essentially constant at 0.4% in 2004 and 0.3% in 2003. The
      increase is due to a $0.4 million interest charge related to a proposed
      disallowed IRS transaction and higher interest expense. These increases were
      partially offset by a $0.8 million pre-tax, non-cash gain in 2004 related
      to the accounting for interest rate derivatives under SFAS No. 133, compared
      to
      a gain of $0.4 million in 2003. The other expense category includes
      interest expense, interest income, and pre-tax non-cash gains or losses related
      to the accounting for interest rate derivatives under SFAS No. 133. 

Income
      tax expense decreased $5.9 million, or 41.0%, to $8.5 million in 2004
      from $14.3 million in 2003. The effective tax rate is different from the
      expected combined tax rate due to permanent differences related to a per diem
      pay structure implemented in 2001. Due to the nondeductible effect of per diem,
      our tax rate will fluctuate in future periods as income fluctuates.

As
      a
      result of the factors described above, net income decreased $8.8 million,
      or 72.2%, to $3.4 million in 2004 from $12.2 million in 2003. As a
      result of the foregoing, our net margin decreased to 0.6% in 2004 from 2.2%
      in
      2003. Excluding the $12.2 million non-cash, after-tax increase to claims
      reserves, net income increased $3.4 million, or 28.4%, to
      $15.6 million, for a net margin of 2.8%. 

LIQUIDITY
      AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Our
      business requires significant capital investments. In recent years, we have
      financed our capital requirements with borrowings under credit facilities,
      cash
      flows from operations, and long-term operating leases. Our primary sources
      of
      liquidity at December 31, 2005, were funds provided by operations, proceeds
      under the Securitization Facility and borrowings under our Credit Agreement,
      each as defined in Notes 5 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements
      contained herein, and operating leases of revenue equipment.  

27 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Over
        the
        past several years, we have financed a large percentage of our revenue equipment
        through operating leases. This has reduced the net value of revenue equipment
        reflected on our balance sheet, reduced our borrowings, and increased our
        net
        cash flows compared to purchasing all of our revenue equipment. Certain items
        could fluctuate depending on whether we finance our revenue equipment through
        borrowings or through operating leases. We expect capital expenditures,
        primarily for revenue equipment (net of trade-ins), to be approximately $60
        to
        $65 million in 2006, exclusive of acquisitions of companies, assuming all
        revenue equipment is purchased. We believe our sources of liquidity are adequate
        to meet our current and projected needs for at least the next twelve months.
        On
        a longer term basis, based on anticipated future cash flows, expected
        availability under our Credit Agreement and Securitization Facility, and
        sources
        of financing that we expect will be available to us, we do not expect to
        experience significant liquidity constraints in the foreseeable
        future. 

Cash
        Flows  

Net
        cash
        provided by operating activities was $25.6 million in 2005,
        $44.1 million in 2004, and $47.7 million in 2003. Our primary sources
        of cash flow from operations in 2005 were net income increased by depreciation
        and amortization. Our number of days sales in accounts receivable has increased
        to 43 days in 2005 from 40 days in 2003 due to difficulty in resolving and
        collecting detention accessorial revenue related to the hours-of-service
        regulations that went into effect in 2004. 

Net
      cash
      used in investing activities was $43.9 million in 2005, $32.4 million
      in 2004, and $25.9 million in 2003. The net cash was used was primarily for
      the acquisition of new revenue equipment (net of trade-ins) using proceeds
      from
      the Credit Agreement.  

Net
      cash
      provided by financing activities was $16.9 million in 2005 compared to cash
      used
      in financing activities of $9.9 million in 2004 and $18.6 million in
      2003. During 2005, outstanding balance sheet debt increased by
      $28.1 million. At December 31, 2005, we had outstanding debt of
      $80.3 million, consisting of $47.3 million in the Securitization
      Facility and $33.0 million drawn under the Credit Agreement. We used
      approximately $11.7 million to repurchase shares of our Class A common
      stock. In May 2005, the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan
      for up to 1.3 million Company shares to be purchased in the open market or
      through negotiated transactions subject to criteria established by the Board.
      During 2005, we purchased a total of 720,800 shares with an average price of
      $16.17. The stock repurchase plan expires June 30, 2006 and replaced the stock
      repurchase program adopted in 2004.  

Material
      Debt Agreements  

In
      December 2004, we entered into a credit agreement with a group of banks, (the
      "Credit Facility"). The facility matures in December 2009. Borrowings under
      the
      Credit Agreement are based on the banks' base rate, which floats daily, or
      LIBOR, which accrues interest based on one, two, three, or six month LIBOR
      rates
      plus an applicable margin that is adjusted quarterly between 0.75% and 1.25%
      based on cash flow coverage (the applicable margin was 1.0% at December 31,
      2005). At December 31, 2005, we had only LIBOR borrowings totaling
      $33.0 million outstanding, with a weighted average interest rate of 5.4%.
      The Credit Agreement is guaranteed by us and all of our subsidiaries except
      CRC
      and Volunteer. 

The
      Credit Agreement has a maximum borrowing limit of $150.0 million with an
      accordion feature, which permits an increase up to a maximum borrowing limit
      of
      $200.0 million. Borrowings related to revenue equipment are limited to the
      lesser of 90% of net book value of revenue equipment or the maximum borrowing
      limit. Letters of credit are limited to an aggregate commitment of
      $75.0 million. The Credit Agreement is secured by a pledge of the stock of
      most of our subsidiaries. A commitment fee, that is adjusted quarterly between
      0.15% and 0.25% per annum based on cash flow coverage, is due on the daily
      unused portion of the Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2005, we had
      approximately $21.6 million of available borrowing capacity. At
      December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, we had undrawn letters of
      credit outstanding of approximately $73.9 million and $65.4 million,
      respectively. 

The
      Credit Agreement contains certain restrictions and covenants relating to, among
      other things, dividends, tangible net worth, cash flow, acquisitions and
      dispositions, and total indebtedness and are cross-defaulted with our
      securitization facility. At December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with
      the Credit Agreement covenants.  

28 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

In
        December 2000, we entered into an accounts receivable securitization facility
        (the "Securitization Facility"). On a revolving basis, we sell its interests
        in
        our accounts receivable to CRC, a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote,
        special-purpose subsidiary incorporated in Nevada. CRC sells a percentage
        ownership in such receivables to an unrelated financial entity. We can receive
        up to $62.0 million of proceeds, subject to eligible receivables and pay
        a
        service fee recorded as interest expense, based on commercial paper interest
        rates plus an applicable margin of 0.44% per annum and a commitment fee of
        0.10%
        per annum on the daily unused portion of the Facility. The net proceeds under
        the Securitization Facility are required to be shown as a current liability
        because the term, subject to annual renewals, is 364 days. As of
        December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, we had $47.3 million and
        $44.1 million outstanding, respectively, with weighted average interest
        rates of 4.4% and 2.4%, respectively. CRC does not meet the requirements
        for
        off-balance sheet accounting; therefore, it is reflected in our consolidated
        financial statements. 

The
        Securitization Facility contains certain restrictions and covenants relating
        to,
        among other things, dividends, tangible net worth, cash flow coverage,
        acquisitions and dispositions, and total indebtedness. As of December 31,
        2005, we were in compliance with the Securitization Facility
        covenants.  

Sale-Leaseback
      Transactions  

In April
      2006, we expect to complete a sale-leaseback transaction involving a major
      portion of our Chattanooga facility, including our corporate headquarters.
      In
      the transaction, we plan to sell the headquarters, maintenance facility, body
      shop, and approximately 46 acres of surrounding property for approximately
      $30.0
      million. We expect to lease the facilities back under a 20-year lease with
      annual rental of approximately $2.5 million, subject to annual increases of
      1.0%. We expect to have options to extend the lease for 5 years after the
      initial term and an option to purchase for fair market value.  

In
      September 2005, we entered into an agreement with a finance company to lease
      approximately 1,800 model year 2006 and 2007 dry van trailers under seven year
      walk away leases. These trailers will replace approximately 1,200 model years
      1998 and 1999 dry van trailers and approximately 600 model year 2000 dry van
      trailers. The 1,800 trailers will be replaced over the next year as new trailers
      are delivered. After the completion of this transaction, the oldest trailer
      we
      will be operating will be a 2001 model year trailer.  

In
      April
      2003, we engaged in a sale-leaseback transaction involving approximately 1,266
      dry van trailers. We sold the trailers to a finance company for approximately
      $15.6 million in cash and leased the trailers back under three year walk
      away leases. The resulting gain was approximately $0.3 million and is being
      amortized over the life of the lease. The monthly cost of the lease payments
      will be higher than the cost of the depreciation and interest expense; however,
      there will be no residual risk of loss at disposition. 

In
      April
      2003, we also entered into an agreement with a finance company to sell
      approximately 2,585 dry van trailers and to lease an additional 3,600 model
      year
      2004 dry van trailers. We sold the trailers, which consisted of model year
      1991
      to model year 1997 dry van trailers, to the finance company for approximately
      $20.5 million in cash and leased the 3,600 dry van trailers back under
      seven year walk away leases. The monthly cost of the lease payments will be
      higher than the cost of the depreciation and interest expense; however, there
      will be no residual risk of loss at disposition. The transaction was completed
      in the first quarter of 2004 and the leases begin to expire in June
      2010. 

29 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Contractual
        Obligations and Commercial Commitments   

The
        following table sets forth our contractual cash obligations and commitments
        as
        of December 31, 2005. 

(1) 

Represents
                principal and interest payments owed at December 31, 2005.   The
                borrowings consist of draws under a revolving line of credit, with
                fluctuating borrowing amounts and variable interest rates.   In
                determining future contractual interest and principal obligations,
                for
                variable interest rate debt, the interest rate and principal amount
                in
                place at December 31, 2005 was utilized. The table assumes long-term
                debt
                is held to maturity. Refer to Note 5, "Long-term Debt" and Note 6,
                "Accounts Receivable Securitization and Allowance for Doubtful
                Accounts." 

(2) 

In
                2006, this amount represents proceeds drawn under our Securitization
                Facility, and the interest rate in place at December 31, 2005 was
                utilized. The net proceeds under the Securitization Facility are
                required
                to be shown as a current liability because the term, subject to annual
                renewals, is 364 days. We expect the Securitization Facility to be
                renewed
                in December 2006. 

(3) 

Represents
                future monthly rental payment obligations under operating leases
                for
                over-the-road tractors, day-cabs, and trailers.   Substantially
                all lease agreements for revenue equipment have fixed payment terms
                based
                on the passage of time. The tractor lease agreements generally stipulate
                maximum miles and provide for mileage penalties for excess miles.
                Lease
                terms for tractors and trailers range from 30 to 60 months and 60
                to 84
                months, respectively. Refer to Item 7, Management's Discussion and
                Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Off Balance
                Sheet Arrangements and Note 7, "Leases," in the accompanying consolidated
                financial statements for further information.  

(4) 

This
                amount represents volume purchase commitments through our truck stop
                network. We estimate that these amounts represent approximately 65%
                of our
                fuel needs for 2006. 

(5) 

Amount
                reflects the total purchase price or lease commitment of tractors
                and
                trailers scheduled for delivery throughout 2006. Net of estimated
                trade-in
                values and other dispositions, the estimated amount due under these
                commitments is approximately $127.0 million. These purchases are
                expected to be financed by debt, proceeds from sales of existing
                equipment, cash flows from operations, and operating leases. We have
                the
                option to cancel commitments relating to tractor equipment with 60
                days
                notice.    

30 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Off
        Balance Sheet Arrangements  

At
        December 31, 2005, we financed approximately 1,140 tractors and 7,545
        trailers under operating leases. Vehicles held under operating leases are
        not
        carried on our balance sheet, and lease payments in respect of such vehicles
        are
        reflected in our income statements under revenue equipment rentals and purchased
        transportation. Our revenue equipment rental and other related amounts were
        $40.2 million in 2005, compared to $35.3 million in 2004. The total amount
        of remaining payments under operating leases as of December 31, 2005, was
        $110.1 million. In connection with various operating leases, we issued
        residual value guarantees, which provide that if we do not purchase the leased
        equipment from the lessor at the end of the lease term, then we are liable
        to
        the lessor for an amount equal to the shortage (if any) between the proceeds
        from the sale of the equipment and an agreed value. As of December 31,
        2005, the maximum amount of the residual value guarantees was approximately
        $47.4 million. To the extent the expected value at the lease termination
        date is lower than the residual value guarantee, we would accrue for the
        difference over the remaining lease term. We believe that the proceeds from
        the
        sale of equipment under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation
        on
        substantially all operating leases.  

CRITICAL
        ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

The
        preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
        generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make decisions
        based upon estimates, assumptions, and factors we consider as relevant to
        the
        circumstances. Such decisions include the selection of applicable accounting
        principles and the use of judgment in their application, the results of which
        impact reported amounts and disclosures. Changes in future economic conditions
        or other business circumstances may affect the outcomes of our estimates
        and
        assumptions. Accordingly, actual results could differ from those anticipated.
        A
        summary of the significant accounting policies followed in preparation of
        the
        financial statements is contained in Note 1 of the financial statements attached
        hereto. The following discussion addresses our most critical accounting
        policies, which are those that are both important to the portrayal of our
        financial condition and results of operations and that require significant
        judgment or use of complex estimates. 

Depreciation
      of Revenue Equipment  

Depreciation
      is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives
      of
      the assets and was approximately $36.8 million on tractors and trailers in
      2005.
      Depreciation of revenue equipment is our largest item of depreciation. We
      generally depreciate new tractors (excluding day cabs) over five years to
      salvage values of 4% to 25% and new trailers over seven years to salvage values
      of 17% to 39%.   Gains
      and
      losses on the disposal of revenue equipment are included in depreciation expense
      in our statements of operations.  

We
      annually review the reasonableness of our estimates regarding useful lives
      and
      salvage values of our revenue equipment and other long-lived assets based upon,
      among other things, our experience with similar assets, conditions in the used
      revenue equipment market, and prevailing industry practice. Changes in our
      useful life or salvage value estimates, or   fluctuations
      in market values that are not reflected in our estimates, could have a material
      effect on our results of operations.  

Revenue
      equipment and other long-lived assets are tested for impairment whenever an
      event occurs that indicates an impairment may exist. Expected future cash flows
      are used to analyze whether an impairment has occurred. If the sum of expected
      undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying value of the long-lived asset,
      then an impairment loss is recognized. We measure the impairment loss by
      comparing the fair value of the asset to its carrying value. Fair value is
      determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis or the appraised value
      of
      the asset, as appropriate. We have not recognized any impairments of long-lived
      assets to date.  

Insurance
      and Other Claims  

The
      primary claims arising against us consist of cargo liability, personal injury,
      property damage, workers  compensation, and employee medical expenses.
  Our
      insurance program involves self-insurance with high-risk retention levels.
      Because of our significant self-insured retention amounts, we have significant
      exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims and to variations
      between our estimates and actual ultimate payouts.   We
      accrue
      the estimated cost of the uninsured portion of pending claims. Our estimates
      require judgments concerning the nature and severity of the claim, historical
      trends, advice from third-party administrators and insurers, the specific facts
      of individual cases, the jurisdictions involved, estimates of future claims
      development, and the legal and other costs to settle or defend the claims.
      We
      have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims.
      If there is an increase in the frequency and severity of claims, or we are
      required to accrue or pay additional amounts if the claims prove to be more
      severe than originally assessed, or any of the claims would exceed the limits
      of
      our insurance coverage, our profitability would be adversely affected.

31 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

In
        addition to estimates within our self-insured retention layers, we also must
        make judgments concerning our aggregate coverage limits. If any claim occurrence
        were to exceed our aggregate coverage limits, we would have to accrue for
        the
        excess amount. Our critical estimates include evaluating whether a claim
        may
        exceed such limits and, if so, by how much. Currently, we are not aware of
        any
        such claims. If one or more claims were to exceed our then effective coverage
        limits, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially
        and adversely affected.  

During
        2004 we engaged an independent, third-party actuarial firm to assist us in
        evaluating our claims reserves estimates. As a result of the actuarial study
        and
        our own procedures we recorded a $19.6 million non-cash, pretax increase to
        claims reserves during the fourth quarter of 2004. We have incorporated several
        procedures suggested by the actuary into our claims estimation process for
        future periods. 

Lease
        Accounting and Off-Balance Sheet Transactions  

Operating
        leases have been an important source of financing for our revenue equipment,
        computer equipment and company airplane. In connection with the leases of
        a
        majority of the value of the equipment we finance with operating leases,
        we
        issue residual value guarantees, which provide that if we do not purchase
        the
        leased equipment from the lessor at the end of the lease term, then we are
        liable to the lessor for an amount equal to the shortage (if any) between
        the
        proceeds from the sale of the equipment and an agreed value. To the extent
        the
        expected value at the lease termination date is lower than the residual value
        guarantee, we would accrue for the difference over the remaining lease
        term.  
        We
        annually review the estimated fair market value of the leased revenue equipment
        at the end of the lease term against the residual values we guarantee.
  The
        estimated values at lease termination involve management judgments. As leases
        are entered into determination as to the classification as an operating or
        capital lease involves management judgments on residual values and useful
        lives. 

Accounting
      for Income Taxes  

In
        this
        area, we make important judgments concerning a variety of factors, including,
        the appropriateness of tax strategies, expected future tax consequences based
        on
        future company performance, and to the extent tax strategies are challenged
        by
        taxing authorities, our likelihood of success. We utilize certain income
        tax
        planning strategies to reduce our overall cost of income taxes. It is possible
        that certain strategies might be disallowed, resulting in an increased liability
        for income taxes. In connection with an audit of our 2001 and 2002 tax returns,
        the IRS proposed to disallow three of our tax strategies. We met with Internal
        Revenue Service ("IRS") Appeals Division during the fourth quarter of 2005
        and
        have proposed a settlement agreement. At this time, we have not received
        the
        executed IRS response to the agreement. In April 2004, we submitted a
        $5.0 million cash bond to the IRS to prevent any future interest expense in
        the event of an unsuccessful defense of the strategies. In addition, we have
        accrued amounts that we believe are appropriate given our expectations
        concerning the ultimate resolution of the strategies. The IRS is currently
        auditing our 2003 and 2004 tax returns and has proposed two disallowances
        totaling approximately $350,000 for the 2003 and 2004 years related to the
        November 2003 stock offering. We have responded to the IRS with a settlement
        offer. At this time, the IRS has not responded to the offer. Significant
        management judgments are involved in assessing the likelihood of sustaining
        the
        strategies and in determining the likely range of defense and settlement
        costs,
        and an ultimate result worse than our expectations could adversely affect
        our
        results of operations. 

Deferred
      income taxes represent a substantial liability on our consolidated balance
      sheet
      and are determined in accordance with SFAS No. 109,    Accounting
      for Income Taxes   .
      Deferred tax assets and liabilities (tax benefits and liabilities expected
      to be
      realized in the future) are recognized for the expected future tax consequences
      attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts
      of
      existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating
      loss and tax credit carry forwards. 

The
      carrying value of our deferred tax assets assumes that we will be able to
      generate, based on certain estimates and assumptions, sufficient future taxable
      income in certain tax jurisdictions to utilize these deferred tax benefits.
      If
      these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, we may be required
      to establish a valuation allowance against the carrying value of the deferred
      tax assets, which would result in additional income tax expense. On a periodic
      basis we assess the need for adjustment of the valuation allowance. No valuation
      reserve has been established at December 31, 2005, because, based on forecasted
      income, we believe that it is more likely than not that the future benefit
      of
      the deferred tax assets will be realized. However, there can be no assurance
      that we will meet our forecasts of future income. 

32 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

We
        believe that we have adequately provided for our future tax consequences
        based
        upon current facts and circumstances and current tax law. During 2005, we
        made
        no material changes in our assumptions regarding the determination of income
        tax
        liabilities. However, should our tax positions be challenged, different outcomes
        could result and have a significant impact on the amounts reported through
        our
        consolidated statement of operations. 

New
        Accounting Pronouncements     

Effective
            December 31, 2005, we adopted FIN 47,    Accounting
            for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations   ,
            which
            clarifies that the term conditional asset retirement obligation as used
            in SFAS
            No. 143,    Accounting
            for Asset Retirement Obligations   ,
            refers
            to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which
            the
            timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event
            that may
            or may not be within the control of the entity. The obligation to perform
            the
            asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists
            about
            the timing and (or) method of settlement. Accordingly, an entity is required
            to
            recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement
            obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
            Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional
            asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of
            the
            liability when sufficient information exists. FIN 47 also clarifies when
            an
            entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair
            value
            of an asset retirement obligation. The adoption of FIN 47 impacted our
            accounting for the conditional obligation to remove company decals and
            other
            identifying markings from certain tractors and trailers under operating
            leases
            at the end of the lease terms. Upon adoption of this standard, we recorded
            an increase to other assets of $0.8 million and accrued expenses of
            $1.6 million, in addition to recognizing a non-cash, pre-tax cumulative
            effect charge of $0.8 million ($0.5 million on an after tax-basis, or $0.03
            per diluted share). 

Had
            the
            adoption of FIN 47 occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented,
            our results of operations and earnings per share would have been affected
            as
            follows: 

The
            value
            of the conditional asset retirement obligation liability calculated on
            a pro
            forma basis as if the standard had been retrospectively applied to all
            periods
            presented are as follows: 

In
        December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,    Share-Based
        Payments   ,
        revising SFAS No. 123,    Accounting
        for Stock Based Compensation   ;
        superseding Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25,    Accounting
        for Stock Issued to Employees    and
        its
        related implementation guidance; and amending SFAS No. 95,    Statement
        of Cash Flows   .
        SFAS
        123R requires companies to recognize the grant date fair value of stock options
        and other equity-based compensation issued to employees in its income statement.
        SFAS 123R was to be effective for most public companies as of the first interim
        or annual period beginning after June 15, 2005. In April 2005, the SEC delayed
        the effective date, requiring companies to apply SFAS 123R in the first annual
        period beginning after June 15, 2005. We adopted SFAS 123R effective January
        1,
        2006. Our adoption of SFAS 123R will impact our results of operations by
        increasing salaries, wages, and related expenses for options granted in periods
        subsequent to the effective date of January 1, 2006. The financial impact
        for
        the unvested     options     outstanding
        as of December 31, 2005 will be de minimis.    

33 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

In
          May
          2005, the FASB issued SFAS Statement No. 154,   
          Accounting Changes and Error Corrections   . 
          SFAS 154 replaces APB No. 20,   
          Accounting Changes   ,
          and
          SFAS Statement No. 3,   
          Reporting Changes in Interim Financial Statements   . 
          SFAS 154 changes the accounting for, and reporting of, a change in accounting
          principle.  SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods 
financial statements of voluntary changes in accounting principle and changes
          required by new accounting standards when the standard does not include
          specific
          transition provisions, unless it is impracticable to do so.   SFAS 154
          is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors in fiscal
          years
          beginning after December 15, 2005.  Early application is permitted for
          accounting changes and corrections of errors during fiscal years beginning
          after
          June 1, 2005. We     adopted
          this statement effective January 2006.   

INFLATION
          AND FUEL COSTS  

Most
          of
          our operating expenses are inflation-sensitive, with inflation generally
          producing increased costs of operations. During the past three years, the
          most
          significant effects of inflation have been on revenue equipment prices
          and the
          compensation paid to the drivers. New emissions control regulations and
          increases in commodity prices, wages of manufacturing workers, and other
          items
          have resulted in higher tractor prices, and there has been an industry-wide
          increase in wages paid to attract and retain qualified drivers. The cost
          of fuel
          also has risen substantially over the past three years. We believe this
          increase
          primarily reflects world events rather than underlying inflationary pressure.
          We
          attempt to limit the effects of inflation through increases in freight
          rates,
          certain cost control efforts and the effects of fuel prices through fuel
          surcharges. 

SEASONALITY  

In
          the
          trucking industry, revenue generally decreases as customers reduce shipments
          during the winter holiday season and as inclement weather impedes operations.
          At
          the same time, operating expenses generally increase, with fuel efficiency
          declining because of engine idling and weather creating more equipment
          repairs.
          For the reasons stated, first quarter net income historically has been
          lower
          than net income in each of the other three quarters of the year. Our equipment
          utilization typically improves substantially between May and October of
          each
          year because of the trucking industry's seasonal shortage of equipment
          on
          traffic originating in California and because of general increases in shipping
          demand during those months. The seasonal shortage typically occurs between
          May
          and August because California produce carriers' equipment is fully utilized
          for
          produce during those months and does not compete for shipments hauled by
          our dry
          van operation. During September and October, business increases as a result
          of
          increased retail merchandise shipped in anticipation of the
          holidays.   

34 

TABLE
              OF CONTENTS  

The
        table
        below sets forth quarterly information reflecting our equipment utilization
        (miles per tractor per period) during 2005, 2004 and 2003. We believe that
        equipment utilization more accurately demonstrates the seasonality for our
        business than changes in revenue, which are affected by the timing of deliveries
        of new revenue equipment. Results of any one or more quarters are not
        necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends. 

Equipment
        Utilization Table 

        (Miles
        Per Tractor Per Period) 

ITEM
        7A .          QUANTITATIVE
        AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

We
        experience various market risks, including changes in interest rates and
        fuel
        prices. We do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for
        trading or speculative purposes, nor when there are no underlying related
        exposures.  

COMMODITY
        PRICE RISK  

From
        time-to-time we may enter into derivative financial instruments to reduce
        our
        exposure to fuel price fluctuations. In accordance with SFAS 133, we adjust
        any
        derivative instruments to fair value through earnings on a monthly basis.
        As of
        December 31, 2005, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our
        exposure to fuel price fluctuations. 

INTEREST
      RATE RISK  

Our
      market risk is also affected by changes in interest rates. Historically, we
      have
      used a combination of fixed rate and variable rate obligations to manage our
      interest rate exposure. Fixed rate obligations expose us to the risk that
      interest rates might fall. Variable rate obligations expose us to the risk
      that
      interest rates might rise. 

Our
      variable rate obligations consist of our Credit Agreement and our Securitization
      Facility. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement, provided there has been no
      default, are based on the banks' base rate, which floats daily, or LIBOR, which
      accrues interest based on one, two, three, or six month LIBOR rates plus an
      applicable margin that is adjusted quarterly between 0.75% and 1.25% based
      on a
      consolidated leverage ratio, which is generally defined as the ratio of
      borrowings, letters of credit, and the present value of operating lease
      obligations to our earnings before   interest,
      income taxes, depreciation, amortization, and rental payments under operating
      leases. The applicable margin was 1.0% at December 31, 2005. At
      December 31, 2005, we had variable, LIBOR borrowings of $33.0 million
      outstanding under the Credit Agreement. 

During
      the first quarter of 2001, we entered into two $10 million notional amount
      interest rate swap agreements to manage the risk of variability in cash flows
      associated with floating-rate debt.   The
      swaps
      expire January 2006 and March 2006. Due to the counter-parties' embedded options
      to cancel, t  hese
      derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments under SFAS No. 133 and
      consequently are marked to fair value through earnings, in other expense in
      the
      accompanying consolidated statement of operations. At
      December 31  ,
      2005  ,
      the
      fair value of these interest rate swap agreements was a liability of $13,000.

Our
      Securitization Facility carries a variable interest rate based on the commercial
      paper rate plus an applicable margin of 0.44% per annum. At December 31,
      2005, borrowings of $47.3 million had been drawn on the Securitization
      Facility. Assuming variable rate borrowings under the Credit Agreement and
      Securitization Facility at December 31, 2005 levels, a one percentage point
      increase in interest rates could increase our annual interest expense by
      approximately $603,000. 

35 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

ITEM
        8 .          FINANCIAL
        STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

The
        consolidated financial statements of Covenant Transport, Inc. and subsidiaries,
        as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated balance sheets,
        statements of operations, statements of stockholders  equity and comprehensive
        income, and statements of cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
        period ended December 31, 2005, consolidated selected quarterly financial
        data
        (unaudited) for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, together with
        the
        related notes, and the report of KPMG LLP, our independent registered public
        accounting firm for the years ended December 31, 2005 2004, and 2003 are
        set
        forth at pages 46 through 62, elsewhere in this report. 

ITEM
        9 .          CHANGES
        IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
        DISCLOSURE  

There
        has
        been no change in accountants during our three most recent fiscal years.

ITEM
        9A .        
    CONTROLS
        AND PROCEDURES  

Evaluation
        of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

We
        have
        established disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material
        information relating to us and our consolidated subsidiaries is made known
        to
        the officers who certify our financial reports and to other members of senior
        management and the Board of Directors.  

Based
        on
        their evaluation as of December 31, 2005, our principal executive officer
        and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls
        and
        procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange
        Act) are effective to ensure that the information required to be disclosed
        by us
        in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded,
        processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in
        SEC
        rules and forms.  

Management's
        Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Management
        is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
        over
        financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined
        in
        Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act as a process
        designed by, or under the supervision of, the principal executive and principal
        financial officers and effected by the board of directors, management and
        other
        personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
        financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
        purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
        includes those policies and procedures that: 

pertain
                  to the maintenance of records, that in reasonable detail, accurately
                  and
                  fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our
                  assets; 

provide
                reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
                to permit
                preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
                accepted
                accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are
                being
                made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and
                directors; and 

provide
                reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
                unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could
                have
                a material effect on our financial
                statements. 

Because
      of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
      not
      prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

Management
      assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
      as
      of December 31, 2005. In making this assessment, management used the
      criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
      Commission (COSO) an Internal Control-Integrated Framework. 

Based
      on
      its assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2005, our
      internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those
      criteria. 

36 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Management's
        assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
        as
        of December 31, 2005, has been audited by KPMG LLP, the independent registered
        public accounting firm who also audited our consolidated financial statements.
        KPMG LLP's attestation report on management's assessment of our internal
        control
        over financial reporting appears on page 45 herein. 

Design
        and Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

The
        design, monitoring, and revision of the system of internal accounting controls
        involves, among other things, management's judgments with respect to the
        relative cost and expected benefits of specific control measures. 

There
        were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred
        during the quarter ended December 31, 2005, that have materially affected,
        or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
        financial reporting.  

ITEM
        9B .          OTHER
        INFORMATION  

Not
        applicable. 

37 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

PART
      III  

ITEM
      10 .          DIRECTORS
      AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

We
      incorporate by reference the information respecting executive officers and
      directors set forth under the captions "Election of Directors - Information
      Concerning Directors and Executive Officers" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial
      Ownership Reporting Compliance" in our Proxy Statement for the 2006 annual
      meeting of stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
      Commission in accordance with Rule 14a-6 promulgated under the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Proxy Statement"); provided, that the
      section entitled "Audit Committee Report for 2005" and the Stock Performance
      Graph contained in the Proxy Statement are not incorporated by
      reference. 

ITEM
      11 .          EXECUTIVE
      COMPENSATION  

We
      incorporate by reference the information set forth under the section entitled
      "Executive Compensation" in our Proxy Statement for the 2006 annual meeting
      of
      stockholders; provided, that the section entitled "Compensation Committee Report
      on Executive Compensation" contained in the Proxy Statement is not incorporated
      by reference. 

ITEM
      12 .          SECURITY
      OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT  

We
      incorporate by reference the information set forth under the section entitled
      "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in our Proxy
      Statement for the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders. The following table
      provides certain information as of December 31, 2005, with respect to our
      compensation plans and other arrangements under which shares of our Class A
      common stock are authorized for issuance.  

Equity
      Compensation Plan Information  

(1) 

Includes
                1994 Incentive Stock Plan, Outside Director Stock Option Plan, and
                2003
                Incentive Stock Plan. 

(2) 

Includes
                1998 Non-Officer Incentive Stock Plan, and shares reserved for issuance
                pursuant to grants outside any
                plan. 

Summary
      Description of Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security
      Holders  

Summary
      of 1998 Non-Officer Incentive Stock Plan  

In
      October 1998, our Board of Directors adopted the Non-Officer Plan to attract
      and
      retain executive personnel and other key employees and motivate them through
      incentives that were aligned with our goals of increased profitability and
      stockholder value. The Board of Directors authorized 200,000 shares of our
      Class
      A common stock for grants or awards pursuant to the Non-Officer Plan. Awards
      under the Plan could be in the form of incentive stock options, non-qualified
      stock options, restricted stock awards, or any other awards of stock consistent
      with the Non-Officer Plan's purpose. The Non-Officer Plan was to be administered
      by the Board of Directors or a committee that could be appointed by the Board
      of
      Directors. All non-officer employees were eligible for participation, and actual
      participants in the Non-Officer Plan were selected from time-to-time by the
      administrator. The administrator could  

38 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

substitute
      new stock options for previously granted options. In conjunction with adopting
      the 2003 Plan, the Board of Directors voted to terminate the Non-Officer Plan
      effective as of May 31, 2003. Option grants previously issued continue in
      effect and may be exercised on the terms and conditions under which the grants
      were made. 

Summary
      of Grants Outside the Plan  

On
      August
      31, 1998, our Board of Directors approved the grant of an option to purchase
      5,000 shares of our Class A common stock to each of our four outside directors.
      The exercise price of the stock was equal to the mean between the lowest
      reported bid price and the highest reported asked price on the date of the
      grant. The options have a term of ten years from the date of grant, and the
      options vested 20% on each of the first through fifth anniversaries of the
      grant. 

On
      September 23, 1998, our Board of Directors approved the grant of an option
      to
      purchase 20,000 shares of our Class A common stock to Tony Smith upon closing
      of
      the acquisition of SRT and Tony Smith Trucking, Inc. The exercise price was
      the
      mean between the low bid price and the high asked price on the closing date.
      The
      options have a term of ten years from the date of grant, and the options vested
      20% on each of the first through fifth anniversaries of the grant. 

On
      May
      20, 1999, our Board of Directors approved the grant of an option to purchase
      2,500 shares of our Class A common stock to each of our four outside directors.
      The exercise price of the stock was equal to the mean between the lowest
      reported bid price and the highest reported asked price on the date of the
      grant. The options have a term of ten years from the date of grant, and the
      options vested 20% on each of the first through fifth anniversaries of the
      grant. 

ITEM
      13 .          CERTAIN
      RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  

We
      incorporate by reference the information set forth under the sections entitled
      "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Certain
      and
      Relationships and Related Transactions" in our Proxy Statement for the 2006
      annual meeting of stockholders. 

ITEM
      14 .          PRINCIPAL
      ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

We
      incorporate by reference the information set forth under the section entitled
      "Principal Accounting Fees and Services" in our Proxy Statement for the 2006
      annual meeting of stockholders. 

39 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

ITEM
      15 .          EXHIBITS,
      FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

(a) 

1. 

Financial
                Statements. 

Our
                audited consolidated financial statements are set forth at the following
                pages of this report: 

Reports
                of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm - KPMG
                LLP 

44 

Consolidated
                Balance Sheets 

46 

Consolidated
                Statements of Operations 

47 

Consolidated
                Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income
                (Loss) 

48 

Consolidated
                Statements of Cash Flows 

49 

Notes
                to Consolidated Financial Statements 

50 

2. 

Financial
                Statement Schedules. 

Financial
                statement schedules are not required because all required information
                is
                included in the financial statements. 

3. 

Exhibits. 

The
                exhibits required to be filed by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are listed
                under paragraph (b) below and on the Exhibit Index appearing at the
                end of
                this report. Management contracts and compensatory plans or arrangements
                are indicated by an asterisk.  

(b) 

Exhibits. 

The
                following exhibits are filed with this Form10-K or incorporated by
                reference to the document set forth next to the exhibit listed
                below. 

40 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

10.11 

(10) 

Amendment
                No. 5 to Loan Agreement dated December 9, 2003, among CVTI Receivables
                Corp., Covenant Transport, Inc., Three Pillars Funding LLC (successor
                to
                Three Pillars Funding Corporation), and SunTrust Capital Markets,
                Inc.
                (formerly SunTrust Equitable Securities Corporation), filed as Exhibit
                10.16 

10.12 

(11) 

Amendment
                No. 6 to Loan Agreement dated July 8, 2004, among CVTI Receivables
                Corp.,
                Covenant Transport, Inc., Three Pillars Funding LLC (f/k/a Three
                Pillars
                Funding Corporation), and SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc. (formerly
                SunTrust Equitable Securities Corporation) effective July 1, 2004,
                filed
                as Exhibit 10.1 

10.13 

(11) 

Form
                of Indemnification Agreement between Covenant Transport, Inc. and
                each
                officer and director, effective May 1, 2004, filed as Exhibit
                10.2 

10.14 

(12) 

Amendment
                No. 7 to Loan Agreement dated November 17, 2004, among CVTI Receivables
                Corp., Covenant Transport, Inc., Three Pillars Funding LLC (f/k/a
                Three
                Pillars Funding Corporation), and SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc.
                (formerly
                SunTrust Equitable Securities Corporation), filed as Exhibit
                10.14 

10.15 

(12) 

Amended
                and Restated Credit Agreement dated December 16, 2004, among Covenant
                Asset Management, Inc., Covenant Transport, Inc., Bank of America,
                N.A.,
                and each other financial institution which is a party to the Credit
                Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.15 

10.16 

(13) 

Amendment
                No. 8 to Loan Agreement dated March 29, 2005, among Three Pillars
                Funding
                LLC (f/k/a Three Pillars Funding Corporation), SunTrust Capital Markets,
                Inc. (f/k/a SunTrust Equitable Securities Corporation), CVTI Receivables
                Corp., and Covenant Transport, Inc., filed as Exhibit
                10.16 

10.17 

(14) 

Amendment
                No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated July 18, 2005,
                among
                Covenant Asset Management, Inc., Covenant Transport, Inc., a Nevada
                Corporation, Bank of America, N.A., as Agent, and the lenders party
                thereto from time-to-time, filed as Exhibit 10.1 

21 

# 

List
                of Subsidiaries 

23 

# 

Consent
                of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm - KPMG
                LLP 

31.1 

# 

Certification
                pursuant to Item 601(b)(31) of Regulation S-K, as adopted pursuant
                to
                Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by David R. Parker,
                the
                Company's Chief Executive Officer 

31.2 

# 

Certification
                pursuant to Item 601(b)(31) of Regulation S-K, as adopted pursuant
                to
                Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by Joey B. Hogan,
                the
                Company's Chief Financial Officer 

32.1 

# 

Certification
                pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section
                906 of
                the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by David R. Parker, the Company's
                Chief
                Executive Officer 

32.2 

# 

Certification
                pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section
                906 of
                the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by Joey B. Hogan, the Company's Chief
                Financial Officer 

References: 

# 

Filed
                  herewith 

All
      other
      footnotes indicate a document previously filed as an exhibit to and incorporated
      by reference from the following: 

41 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

(c) 

Financial
                Statement Schedules. 

Not
                applicable. 

42 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
      by
      the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

COVENANT
                TRANSPORT, INC. 

Date:
                March 31, 2006 

By: 

/s/
                Joey B. Hogan 

Joey
                B. Hogan 

Executive
                Vice President and Chief 

                Financial
                Officer 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
      been
      signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
      capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Signature
                and Title 

Date 

/s/
                David R. Parker 

March
                31, 2006 

David
                R. Parker 

Chairman
                of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive
                officer) 

/s/
                Joey B. Hogan 

March
                    31, 2006 

Joey
                B. Hogan 

Executive
                Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

                (principal
                financial and accounting officer) 

/s/
                Bradley A. Moline 

March
                    31, 2006 

Bradley
                A. Moline 

Director 

/s/
                William T. Alt 

March
                    31, 2006 

William
                T. Alt 

Director 

/s/
                Robert E. Bosworth 

March
                    31, 2006 

Robert
                E. Bosworth 

Director 

/s/
                Hugh O. Maclellan, Jr. 

March
                    31, 2006 

Hugh
                O. Maclellan, Jr. 

Director 

/s/
                Mark A. Scudder 

March
                    31, 2006 

Mark
                A. Scudder 

Director 

/s/
                Niel B. Nielson 

March
                    31, 2006 

Niel
                B. Nielson 

Director 

43 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

REPORT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
      FIRM   

The
      Board
      of Directors and Stockholders 

      Covenant
      Transport, Inc.: 

We
      have
      audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of Covenant Transport,
      Inc.
      and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related Consolidated
      Statements of Operations, Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income, and
      Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
      2005. These Consolidated Financial Statements are the responsibility of the
      Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
      Consolidated Financial Statements based on our audits. 

We
      conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
      statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
      on a
      test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
      statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
      and
      significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
      financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
      reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In
      our
      opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to above present fairly,
      in all material respects, the financial position of Covenant Transport, Inc.
      and
      subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their
      operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
      ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
      principles. 

We
      also
      have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Covenant Transport, Inc.
      and subsidiaries  internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
      2005, based on criteria established in   
      Internal Control Integrated Framework    issued
      by
      the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO),
      and
      our report dated March 31, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion on
      management s assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control
      over financial reporting   .  

As
        discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
        changed its method of accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations
        in
        2005. 

KPMG
      LLP 

/s/
      KPMG
      LLP 

Atlanta,
      Georgia 

      March
      31,
      2006 

44 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

REPORT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The
      Board
      of Directors and Stockholders 

      Covenant
      Transport, Inc.: 

We
      have
      audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management s
      Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting set forth in Item 9A of
      Covenant Transport, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
      December 31, 2005, that Covenant Transport, Inc. and subsidiaries
      maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December
      31, 2005, based on criteria established in   
      Internal Control Integrated Framework    issued
      by
      the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
      The
      Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
      over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
      control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
      on
      management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s
      internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 

We
      conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
      internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
      respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
      over
      financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating
      the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
      such
      other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
      that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

A
      company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control
      over
      financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
      to
      the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
      reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
      provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
      permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
      accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
      being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
      of
      the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
      detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
      assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because
      of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
      not
      prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In
      our
      opinion, management's assessment that Covenant Transport, Inc. and subsidiaries
      maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December
      31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria
      established in   
      Internal Control Integrated Framework    issued
      by
      the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
      Also, in our opinion, Covenant Transport, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained,
      in
      all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
      as of
      December 31, 2005, based on   criteria
      established in    Internal
      Control Integrated Framework    issued
      by
      the Committee   of
      Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO)  . 

We
      also
      have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Covenant
      Transport, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the
      related Consolidated Statements of Operations, Stockholders  Equity and
      Comprehensive Income, and Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year
      period ended December 31 2005, and our report dated March 31, 2006,       expressed
      an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements   .  

KPMG
      LLP 

/s/
      KPMG
      LLP 

Atlanta,
      Georgia 

      March
      31,
      2006 

45 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

See
      accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements  . 

46 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

See
      accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements  .    

47 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

COVENANT
      TRANSPORT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

       CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY  

       AND
      COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  

       FOR
      THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004, AND 2003  

       (In
      thousands)  

See
      accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements  . 

48 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

COVENANT
      TRANSPORT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

       CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

       FOR
      THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004, AND 2003  

       (In
      thousands)  

See
      accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements  . 

49 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

COVENANT
      TRANSPORT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

       DECEMBER
      31, 2005, 2004, AND 2003  

1.      SUMMARY
      OF
      SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Nature
      of
      Business - Covenant Transport, Inc. (the "Company") is a holding company for
      subsidiaries that offer transportation services to customers throughout the
      United States. The Company's current operations comprise a single segment for
      financial reporting purposes. 

Principles
      of Consolidation - The consolidated financial statements include the accounts
      of
      the Company, a holding company incorporated in the state of Nevada in 1994,
      and
      its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Covenant Transport, Inc., a Tennessee
      corporation; Harold Ives Trucking Co., an Arkansas corporation; ("Harold Ives");
      Southern Refrigerated Transport, Inc., an Arkansas corporation; ("SRT");
      Covenant.com, Inc., a Nevada corporation; Covenant Asset Management, Inc.,
      a
      Nevada corporation; CIP, Inc., a Nevada corporation; CVTI Receivables Corp.,
      a
      Nevada corporation; ("CRC"); and Volunteer Insurance Limited, a Cayman Islands
      company; ("Volunteer"). Tony Smith Trucking, Inc. and Terminal Truck Broker,
      Inc., both Arkansas corporations, were dissolved in December 2004 and September
      2003, respectively. All significant intercompany balances and transactions
      have
      been eliminated in consolidation. 

Revenue
      Recognition - Revenue, drivers' wages and other direct operating expenses are
      recognized on the date shipments are delivered to the customer. The Company
      includes fuel surcharges in total revenue in its statements of operations.
      The
      Company also reports freight revenue, which is total revenue excluding fuel
      surcharge revenue because the Company believes that fuel surcharges tend to
      be a
      volatile source of revenue, and the exclusion of fuel surcharges affords a
      more
      consistent basis for comparing the results of operations from period to period.

Cash
      and
      Cash Equivalents - The Company considers all highly liquid investments with
      a
      maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. 

Inventories
      and supplies - Inventories and supplies consist of parts, tires, fuel, and
      supplies. Tires on new revenue equipment are capitalized as a component of
      the
      related equipment cost when the tractor or trailer is placed in service and
      recovered through depreciation over the life of the vehicle. Replacement tires
      and parts on hand at year end are recorded at the lower of cost or market with
      cost determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Replacement tires
      are expensed when placed in service. 

Property
      and Equipment - Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over
      the estimated useful lives of the assets. Revenue equipment is generally
      depreciated over five to ten years with salvage values ranging from 4% to 39%.
      The salvage value, useful life, and annual depreciation of tractors and trailers
      are evaluated annually based on the current market environment and on the
      Company's recent experience with disposition values. Any change could result
      in
      greater or lesser annual expense in the future. Gains or losses on disposal
      of
      revenue equipment are included in depreciation in the consolidated statements
      of
      operations.  

Impairment
      of Long-Lived Assets - The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived
      assets by analyzing the operating performance and future cash flows for those
      assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
      amounts of such assets may not be recoverable. Impairment can be impacted by
      the
      Company's projection of the actual level of future cash flows, the level of
      actual cash flows and salvage values, the methods of estimation used for
      determining fair values and the impact of guaranteed residuals. Any changes
      in
      management's judgments could result in greater or lesser annual depreciation
      expense or additional impairment charges in the future. 

Intangible
      and Other Assets - The Company periodically evaluates the net realizability
      of
      the carrying amount of intangible assets. Non-compete agreements are amortized
      over the life of the agreement, and deferred loan costs are amortized over
      the
      life of the loan. 

50 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Goodwill
      - The Company utilizes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS")
      No.
      142,    Goodwill
      and Other Intangible Assets   ,
      which
      requires the Company to evaluate goodwill and other intangible assets with
      indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis, with any resulting
      impairment losses being recorded as a component of income from operations in
      the
      consolidated statements of operations. Goodwill that was acquired in purchase
      business combinations completed before July 1, 2001, has not been amortized
      since January 1, 2002. During the second quarter of each year, the Company
      completes its annual evaluation of its goodwill for impairment and determined
      that there was no impairment. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company
      had approximately $11.5 million of goodwill.  

Fair
      Value of Financial Instruments - The Company's financial instruments consist
      primarily of cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and long term debt.
      The carrying amount of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable
      approximates their fair value because of the short term maturity of these
      instruments. Interest rates that are currently available to the Company for
      issuance of long term debt with similar terms and remaining maturities are
      used
      to estimate the fair value of the Company's long term debt. The carrying amount
      of the Company's short and long term debt at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was
      approximately $80.3 million and $52.2 million, respectively, including
      the accounts receivable securitization borrowings and approximates the estimated
      fair value, due to the variable interest rates on these
      instruments. 

Capital
      Structure - The shares of Class A and B common stock are substantially identical
      except that the Class B shares are entitled to two votes per share while
      beneficially owned by David Parker or certain members of his immediate family
      and Class A shares are entitled to one vote per share. The terms of any future
      issuances of preferred shares will be set by the Board of
      Directors. 

Insurance
      and Claims - The Company's insurance program for liability, property damage,
      and
      cargo loss and damage, involves self-insurance with high retention levels.
      Under
      the casualty program, the Company is self-insured for personal injury and
      property damage claims for varying amounts depending on the date the claim
      was
      incurred. The insurance retention also provides for an additional self-insured
      aggregate amount, with a limit per occurrence until an aggregate threshold
      is
      reached. The deductible amount increased from $250,000 in 2001 to
      $2.0 million in 2005, subject to aggregate thresholds. For the years ended
      December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company was self-insured for personal
      injury and property damage claims for amounts up to $2.0 million per
      occurrence, subject to an additional $2.0 million self-insured aggregate
      amount, which results in the total self-insured retention of up to
      $4.0 million per occurrence until the $4.0 million aggregate threshold
      is reached. For cargo loss and damage claims, the Company is self-insured for
      amounts up to the first $1.0 million per occurrence. The Company maintains
      a workers' compensation plan and group medical plan for its employees with
      a
      deductible amount of $1.0 million for each workers' compensation claim and
      a per claim limit amount of $275,000 for each group medical claim. The Company
      accrues the estimated cost of the retained portion of incurred claims. These
      accruals are based on an evaluation of the nature and severity of the claim
      and
      estimates of future claims development based on historical trends. Insurance
      and
      claims expense will vary based on the frequency and severity of claims, the
      premium expense, and self-insured retention levels. 

The
      Company recorded an aggregate $19.6 million pre-tax adjustment to its
      claims reserves during the fourth quarter of 2004. The adjustment included
      an
      $18.0 million increase to the Company's casualty reserve, which was
      reflected in insurance and claims on its consolidated statement of operations,
      and a $1.5 million increase to the Company's workers' compensation reserve,
      which was reflected in salaries, wages, and benefits on its consolidated
      statement of operations. 

Concentrations
      of Credit Risk - The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its
      customers and does not require collateral for its accounts receivable. The
      Company maintains reserves which management believes are adequate to provide
      for
      potential credit losses. The Company's customer base spans the continental
      United States with a diverse customer base that results in a lack of a
      concentration of credit risk for the year ended December 31, 2005. However,
      during 2004, three of the Company's customers, which were autonomously managed
      and operated, were wholly owned subsidiaries of a public entity, when added
      together amounted to approximately 9% of revenue in 2004 and approximately
      11%
      of revenue in 2003.  

Use
      of
      Estimates - The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
      accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
      requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
      amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
      liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
      of
      revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ
      from those estimates. 

51 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Income
      Taxes - Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method.
      Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
      consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
      carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
      bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
      expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
      differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred
      tax
      assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in
      the
      period that includes the enactment date. 

Derivative
      Instruments and Hedging Activities - The Company engages in activities that
      expose it to market risks, including the effects of changes in interest rates
      and fuel prices. Financial exposures are evaluated as an integral part of the
      Company's risk management program, which seeks, from time to time, to reduce
      potentially adverse effects that the volatility of the interest rate and fuel
      markets may have on operating results. The Company does not regularly engage
      in
      speculative transactions, nor does it regularly hold or issue financial
      instruments for trading purposes.  

All
      derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair values. On the
      date the derivative contract is entered into, the Company designates the
      derivative a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash
      flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ("cash
      flow hedge"). The Company formally documents all relationships between hedging
      instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objective and
      strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process includes
      linking all derivatives that are designated as cash-flow hedges to specific
      assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific firm commitments
      or
      forecasted transactions.  

The
      Company also formally assesses, both at the hedge's inception and on an ongoing
      basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly
      effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
      Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and that
      is
      designated and qualifies as a fair-value hedge, along with the loss or gain
      on
      the hedged asset or liability or unrecognized firm commitment of the hedged
      item
      that is attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in earnings. Changes
      in
      the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and that is designated
      and qualifies as a cash-flow hedge are recorded in other comprehensive income,
      until earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows or unrecognized
      firm commitment of the designated hedged item.  

The
      Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when it is determined that
      the derivative is no longer effective in offsetting changes in the fair value
      or
      cash flows of the hedged item: the derivative expires or is sold, terminated,
      or
      exercised; the derivative is undesignated as a hedging instrument, because
      it is
      unlikely that a forecasted transaction will occur; a hedged firm commitment
      no
      longer meets the definition of a firm commitment; or management determines
      that
      designation of the derivative as a hedging instrument is no longer
      appropriate. 

When
      hedge accounting is discontinued because it is determined that the derivative
      no
      longer qualifies as an effective fair-value hedge, the Company continues to
      carry the derivative on the balance sheet at its fair value, and no longer
      adjusts the hedged asset or liability for changes in fair value. The adjustment
      of the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability is accounted for in
      the
      same manner as other components of the carrying amount of that asset or
      liability. When hedge accounting is discontinued because the hedged item no
      longer meets the definition of a firm commitment, the Company continues to
      carry
      the derivative on the balance sheet at its fair value, removes any asset or
      liability that was recorded pursuant to recognition of the firm commitment
      from
      the balance sheet, and recognizes any gain or loss in earnings. When hedge
      accounting is discontinued because it is probable that a forecasted transaction
      will not occur, the Company continues to carry the derivative on the balance
      sheet at its fair value, and gains and losses that were accumulated in other
      comprehensive income are recognized immediately in earnings. In all other
      situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued, the Company continues
      to
      carry the derivative at its fair value on the balance sheet and recognizes
      any
      changes in its fair value in earnings. 

Effect
          of
          New Accounting Pronouncements - Effective December 31, 2005, the Company
          adopted
          FIN 47,    Accounting
          for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations   ,
          which
          clarifies that the term conditional asset retirement obligation as used
          in SFAS
          No. 143,    Accounting
          for Asset Retirement Obligations   ,
          refers
          to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which
          the
          timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event
          that may
          or may not be within the control of the entity. The obligation to perform
          the
          asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists
          about
          the timing and (or) method of settlement. Accordingly, an entity is required
          to
          recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement
          obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
          Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional
          asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of
          the
          liability when sufficient information exists. FIN 47 also clarifies when
          an
          entity would have sufficient information to  

52 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

reasonably
        estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. The adoption of
        FIN
        47 impacted the Company's accounting for the conditional obligation to remove
        company decals and other identifying markings from certain tractors and trailers
        under operating leases at the end of the lease terms. Upon adoption of this
        standard, the Company recorded an increase to other assets of $0.8 million
        and accrued expenses of $1.6 million, in addition to recognizing a non-cash
        pre-tax cumulative effect charge of $0.8 million ($0.5 million on an after
        tax-basis, or $0.03 per diluted share). 

Had
        the
        adoption of FIN 47 occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented,
        the Company's results of operations and earnings per share would have been
        affected as follows: 

The
        value
        of the conditional asset retirement obligation liability calculated on a
        pro
        forma basis as if the standard had been retrospectively applied to all periods
        presented are as follows: 

In
        December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,   Share-Based
        Payments   ,
        revising SFAS No. 123,    Accounting
        for Stock Based Compensation   ;
        superseding Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25,    Accounting
        for Stock Issued to Employees    and
        its
        related implementation guidance; and amending SFAS No. 95,    Statement
        of Cash Flows   .
        SFAS
        123R requires companies to recognize the grant date fair value of stock options
        and other equity-based compensation issued to employees in its income statement.
        SFAS 123R was to be effective for most public companies as of the first interim
        or annual period beginning after June 15, 2005. In April 2005, the SEC delayed
        the effective date, requiring companies to apply SFAS 123R in the first annual
        period beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company adopted SFAS 123R effective
        January 1, 2006. The Company's adoption of SFAS 123R will impact its results
        of
        operations by increasing salaries, wages, and related  expenses for
        options granted in periods subsequent to the effective date of January 1,
        2006.
        The financial impact for the unvested     options     outstanding
        as of December 31, 2005 will be de minimis.    

In
      May
      2005, the FASB issued SFAS Statement No. 154,   
      Accounting Changes and Error Corrections   . 
      SFAS 154 replaces APB No. 20,   
      Accounting Changes   ,
      and
      SFAS Statement No. 3,   
      Reporting Changes in Interim Financial Statements   . 
      SFAS 154 changes the accounting for, and reporting of, a change in accounting
      principle.  SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods 
financial statements of voluntary changes in accounting principle and changes
      required by new accounting standards when the standard does not include specific
      transition provisions, unless it is impracticable to do so.   SFAS 154
      is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors in fiscal years
      beginning after December 15, 2005.  Early application is permitted for
      accounting changes and corrections of errors during fiscal years beginning
      after
      June 1, 2005. The Company     adopted
      this statement effective January 2006.  

Earnings
        per Share ("EPS") - The Company applies the provisions of SFAS No.
        128   ,
        Earnings per Share   ,
        which
        requires companies to present basic EPS and diluted EPS. Basic EPS excludes
        dilution and is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders
        by
        the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
        Diluted
        EPS reflects the dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts
        to
        issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted
        in
        the issuance of common stock that then shared in the earnings of the Company.

53 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

The
        following table sets forth for the periods indicated the weighed average
        shares
        outstanding used in the calculation of net income per share included in the
        Company's consolidated statements of operations: 

At
      December 31, 2005, the Company had four stock-based compensation plans, which
      are described more fully in Note 11. The Company accounted for those plans
      under
      the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25,    Accounting
      for Stock Issued to Employees,    and
      related Interpretations. No stock-based compensation cost was reflected in
      net
      income, as all options granted under those plans had an exercise price equal
      to
      the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. The
      following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share
      if
      the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of FASB Statement
      No. 123,    Accounting
      for Stock-Based Compensation,    to
      stock-based compensation. 

On
      August
      31, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors
      approved the acceleration of the vesting of all outstanding unvested stock
      options. As a result, the vesting of approximately 170,000 previously unvested
      stock options granted under the Company's Incentive Stock Plan (Amended and
      Restated as of May 17, 2001) and the Company's 2003 Incentive Stock Plan was
      accelerated and all such options became fully exercisable as of August 31,
      2005.
      This acceleration of vesting did not result in any compensation expense for
      the
      Company during 2005. Under the fair value method of SFAS 123, the Company
      would have recorded $2.2 million, net of tax, which represents the pro
      forma compensation expense as well as the effect of the acceleration of the
      stock options that would be recorded as compensation expense.  

Because
      most of these stock options had exercise prices significantly in excess of
      the
      Company s then current stock price, the Company believes that the future charge
      to earnings that would be required under SFAS 123R for the remaining original
      fair value of the stock options would not have been an accurate reflection
      of
      the economic value to the employees holding them and that the options were
      not
      fully achieving their original objectives of employee retention and
      satisfaction. The Company also believes that the reduction in the Company s
      stock option compensation expense for fiscal years 2007 and 2008 will enhance
      comparability of the Company s financial statements with those of prior and
      subsequent years, since stock options are expected to represent a smaller
      portion of total compensation for the foreseeable future.  

54 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Reclassifications
        - Certain prior period financial statement balances have been reclassified
        to
        conform to the current period's classification. 

2.      INVESTMENT
        IN
        TRANSPLACE  

Effective
        July 1, 2000, the Company combined its logistics business with the logistics
        businesses of five other transportation companies into a company called
        Transplace, Inc. Transplace operates a global transportation logistics service.
        In the transaction, Covenant contributed its logistics customer list, logistics
        business software and software licenses, certain intellectual property,
        intangible assets totaling approximately $5.1 million, and
        $5.0 million in cash for the initial funding of the venture, in exchange
        for 12.4% ownership. Upon completion of the transaction, Covenant ceased
        operating its own transportation logistics and brokerage business. The Company
        accounts for its investment using the cost method of accounting, with the
        investment included in other assets.  

During
        the first quarter of 2005, the Company loaned Transplace approximately $2.7
        million. The 6% interest-bearing note matures January 2007.  

3.      PROPERTY
      AND
      EQUIPMENT  

A
        summary
        of property and equipment, at cost, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 is as
        follows: 

Depreciation
        expense amounts were $39.7 million, $41.2 million, and
        $43.7 million in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.  

4.      OTHER
      ASSETS  

A
      summary
      of other assets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 is as
      follows: 

55 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

5.      LONG-TERM
          DEBT  

Long-term
          debt consists of the following at December 31, 2005 and 2004: 

In
          December 2004, the Company entered into a credit agreement with a group
          of
          banks, (the "Credit Facility"). The facility matures in December 2009.
          Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are based on the banks' base rate,
          which
          floats daily, or LIBOR, which accrues interest based on one, two, three,
          or six
          month LIBOR rates plus an applicable margin that is adjusted quarterly
          between
          0.75% and 1.25% based on cash flow coverage (the applicable margin was
          1.0% at
          December 31, 2005). At December 31, 2005, the Company had only LIBOR
          borrowings totaling $33.0 million outstanding, with a weighted average
          interest rate of 5.4%. The Credit Agreement is guaranteed by the Company
          and all
          of the Company's subsidiaries except CRC and Volunteer. 

           The
          Credit Agreement has a maximum borrowing limit of $150.0 million with an
          accordion feature which permits an increase up to a maximum borrowing limit
          of
          $200.0 million. Borrowings related to revenue equipment are limited to the
          lesser of 90% of net book value of revenue equipment or the maximum borrowing
          limit. Letters of credit are limited to an aggregate commitment of
          $75.0 million. The Credit Agreement is secured by a pledge of the stock of
          most of the Company's subsidiaries. A commitment fee, that is adjusted
          quarterly
          between 0.15% and 0.25% per annum based on cash flow coverage, is due on
          the
          daily unused portion of the Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2005, the
          Company had approximately $21.6 million of available borrowing capacity. At
          December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, the Company had undrawn
          letters of credit outstanding of approximately $73.9 million and
          $65.4 million, respectively. 

The
        Company's $33.0 million of long-term debt as of December 31, 2005 will
        mature in 2009. The Credit Agreement contains certain restrictions and covenants
        relating to, among other things, dividends, tangible net worth, cash flow,
        acquisitions and dispositions, and total indebtedness and are cross-defaulted
        with the Company's securitization facility. At December 31, 2005, the
        Company was in compliance with the Credit Agreement
        covenants. 

6.      ACCOUNTS
      RECEIVABLE SECURITIZATION AND ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL
      ACCOUNTS  

In
      December 2000, the Company entered into an accounts receivable securitization
      facility (the "Securitization Facility"). On a revolving basis, the Company
      sells its interests in its accounts receivable to CRC, a wholly-owned,
      bankruptcy-remote, special-purpose subsidiary incorporated in Nevada. CRC sells
      a percentage ownership in such receivables to an unrelated financial entity.
      The
      Company can receive up to $62.0 million of proceeds, subject to eligible
      receivables and pay a service fee recorded as interest expense, based on
      commercial paper interest rates plus an applicable margin of 0.44% per annum
      and
      a commitment fee of 0.10% per annum on the daily unused portion of the Facility.
      The net proceeds under the Securitization Facility are required to be shown
      as a
      current liability because the term, subject to annual renewals, is 364 days.
      As
      of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, the Company had
      $47.3 million and $44.1 million outstanding, respectively, with
      weighted average interest rates of 4.4% and 2.4%, respectively. CRC does not
      meet the requirements for off-balance sheet accounting; therefore, it is
      reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements. 

The
      Securitization Facility contains certain restrictions and covenants relating
      to,
      among other things, dividends, tangible net worth, cash flow coverage,
      acquisitions and dispositions, and total indebtedness. As of December 31,
      2005, the Company was in compliance with the Securitization Facility
      covenants. 

56 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

The
          activity in allowance for doubtful accounts (in thousands) is as
          follows: 

7.      LEASES  

The
          Company has operating lease commitments for office and terminal properties,
          revenue equipment, and computer and office equipment, exclusive of
          owner/operator rentals and month-to-month equipment rentals, summarized
          for the
          following fiscal years (in thousands): 

A
        portion
        of the Company's operating leases of tractors and trailers contain residual
        value guarantees under which the Company guarantees a certain minimum cash
        value
        payment to the leasing company at the expiration of the lease. The Company
        estimates that the residual guarantees are approximately $47.4 million and
        $55.6 million at December 31, 2005 and
        December 31, 2004, respectively. The Company expects its residual
        guarantees to approximate the expected market value at the end of the lease
        term. 

Rental
      expense is summarized as follows for each of the three years ended December
      31: 

8.      INCOME
      TAXES

Income
      tax expense from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2005,
      2004, and 2003 is comprised of: 

57 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

Income
        tax expense from continuing operations varies from the amount computed by
        applying the federal corporate income tax rate of 35% to income before income
        taxes for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 as
        follows: 

The
        temporary differences and the approximate tax effects that give rise to the
        Company's net deferred tax liability at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as
        follows: 

Based
        upon the expected reversal of deferred tax liabilities and the level of
        historical and projected taxable income over periods in which the deferred
        tax
        assets are deductible, the Company's management believes it is more likely
        than
        not that the Company will realize the benefits of the deductible differences
        at
        December 31, 2005.  

In
        connection with an audit of our 2001 and 2002 tax returns, the IRS proposed
        to
        disallow three of our tax strategies. We met with Internal Revenue Service
        ("IRS") Appeals Division during the fourth quarter of 2005 and have proposed
        a
        settlement agreement. At this time, we have not received the executed IRS
        response to the agreement. In April 2004, we submitted a $5.0 million cash
        bond to the IRS to prevent any future interest expense in the event of an
        unsuccessful defense of the strategies. In addition, we have accrued amounts
        that we believe are appropriate given our expectations concerning the ultimate
        resolution of the strategies. The IRS is currently auditing our 2003 and
        2004
        tax returns and has proposed two disallowances totaling approximately $350,000
        for the 2003 and 2004 years related to the November 2003 stock offering.
        We have
        responded to the IRS with a settlement offer. At this time, the IRS has not
        responded to the offer. The amount ultimately paid upon resolution of the
        issue
        raised may differ from the amount accrued.  

In
      the
      normal course of business, the Company is also subject to audits by the state
      and local tax authorities. The Company believes that its liability for state
      and
      local taxes is adequately accrued at December 31, 2005. However, should the
      Company s tax positions be challenged, different outcomes could result and have
      an impact on the amounts reported in the Company s consolidated financial
      statements. 

58 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

9.      STOCK
        REPURCHASE PLAN  

In
        May
        2005, the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan for up to
        1.3
        million Company shares to be purchased in the open market or through negotiated
        transactions subject to criteria established by the Board. During 2005, the
        Company purchased a total of 720,800 shares with an average price of $16.17.
        The
        stock repurchase plan expires June 30, 2006 and replaced the stock repurchase
        program adopted in 2004.  

10.   
 DEFERRED
        PROFIT SHARING
        EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN  

The
        Company has a deferred profit sharing and savings plan that covers substantially
        all employees of the Company with at least six months of service. Employees
        may
        contribute a percentage of their annual compensation up to the maximum amount
        allowed by the Internal Revenue Code. The Company may make discretionary
        contributions as determined by a committee of the Board of Directors. The
        Company contributed approximately $1.1 million, $0.9 million, and
        $0.8 million in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively, to the profit sharing
        and savings plan. 

11.      STOCK
      OPTION
      PLANS  

The
      Company has adopted stock plans for employees and directors. Awards may be
      stock
      options or other forms. The Company has reserved approximately 2,300,000 shares
      of Class A common stock for distribution at the discretion of the Board of
      Directors. The following table details the activity of the incentive stock
      option plan: 

The
      Company accounts for its stock-based compensation plans under APB No. 25, under
      which no compensation expense has been recognized because all employee and
      outside director stock options have been granted with the exercise price equal
      to the fair value of the Company's Class A common stock on the date of grant.
      Under SFAS No. 123, fair value of options granted are estimated as of the date
      of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the following weighted
      average assumptions: risk-free interest rates ranging from 2.3% to 4.3%;
      expected life of 5 years; dividend rate of zero percent; and expected volatility
      of 42.2% for 2005, 50.7% for 2004, and 52.2% for  

59 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

2003. Using these assumptions, the fair value of the employee
      and outside director stock options which would have been expensed in 2005,
      2004,
      and 2003 is $2.2 million, $1.2 million, and $1.7 million,
      respectively.  

12.      RELATED
        PARTY
        TRANSACTIONS  

Transactions
        involving related parties are as follows: 

The
        Company from time to time utilizes outside legal services from two members
        of
        the Company's Board of Directors. During 2005, 2004, and 2003, the Company
        paid
        approximately $332,000, $196,000 and $434,000, respectfully, for legal and
        consulting services to a firm that employs a member of the Company's Board
        of
        Directors. Also, during 2003, the Company paid approximately $138,000 for
        legal
        services to another firm that employs another member of the Company's Board
        of
        Directors. 

The
      Company provides transportation services to Transplace. During 2005, 2004,
      and
      2003, gross revenue from services provided to Transplace was approximately
      $14.1 million, $15.0 million and $9.6 million, respectively. The
      accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2005 was approximately $2.2
      million. During the first quarter of 2005, the Company loaned Transplace
      approximately $2.7 million, bearing interest at 6% and matures January 2007.

A
      company
      wholly owned by a relative of a significant shareholder and executive officer
      operates a "company store" on a rent-free basis in the Company's headquarters
      building, and uses Covenant service marks on its products at no cost. The
      Company pays fair market value for all supplies that are purchased which totaled
      approximately $373,000, $512,000 and $350,000 in 2005, 2004, and 2003
      respectively.  

In
      2003,
      the Company purchased equipment from Tenn-Ga Truck Sales, Inc., a corporation
      wholly owned by a significant shareholder for approximately $286,000. Also
      in
      2003, the Company was retained to repair certain equipment owned by Tenn-Ga
      Truck Sales for approximately $223,000.  

13.      DERIVATIVE
      INSTRUMENTS   

The
      Company adopted SFAS No. 133 effective January 1, 2001 but had no instruments
      in
      place on that date. In 2001, the Company entered into two $10 million
      notional amount cancelable interest rate swap agreements to manage the risk
      of
      variability in cash flows associated with floating-rate debt. Due to the
      counter-parties' imbedded options to cancel, these derivatives did not qualify,
      and are not designated, as hedging instruments under SFAS No. 133. Consequently,
      these derivatives are marked to fair value through earnings, in other expense
      in
      the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. At December 31,
      2005 and 2004, the fair value of these interest rate swap agreements was a
      liability of approximately $13,000 and $0.4 million, respectively, which
      are included in accrued expenses on the consolidated balance
      sheets. 

The
      derivative activity as reported in the Company's consolidated financial
      statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 is summarized in
      the
      following: 

From
      time
      to time, the Company enters into fuel purchase commitments for a notional amount
      of diesel fuel at prices which are determined when fuel purchases
      occur. 

60 

TABLE
            OF CONTENTS  

14.      COMMITMENTS
        AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES  

The
        Company, in the normal course of business, is party to ordinary, routine
        litigation, most of which involves claims for personal injury and property
        damage incurred in connection with the transportation of freight. The Company
        maintains insurance to cover liabilities arising from the transportation
        of
        freight for amounts in excess of certain self-insured retentions. In the
        opinion
        of management, the Company's potential exposure under pending legal proceedings
        is adequately provided for in the accompanying consolidated financial
        statements. Currently, the Company is involved in the significant personal
        injury claim described below. 

On
        March
        7, 2003, an accident occurred in Wisconsin involving a vehicle and one of
        the
        Company's tractors. Two adult occupants of the vehicle were killed in the
        accident. The only other occupant of the vehicle was a child, who survived
        with
        little apparent injury. Suit was filed in the United States District Court
        in
        Minnesota by heirs of one of the decedents against the Company and its driver
        under the style:    Bill
        Kayachitch and Susan Kayachitch as co-trustees for the heirs and next of
        kin of
        Souvorachak Kayachitch, deceased, vs. Julie Robinson and Covenant Transport,
        Inc.   
        The case
        was settled on October 10, 2005 at a level below the aggregate coverage limits
        of the   Company's
        insurance policies and was formally dismissed in February 2006. Representatives
        of the child may file an additional suit against the Company.

Financial
      risks which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk
      consist of deposits in banks in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance
      Corporation limits. The Company's sales are generally made on account without
      collateral. Repayment terms vary based on certain conditions. The Company
      maintains reserves which management believes are adequate to provide for
      potential credit losses. The majority of the Company's customer base spans
      the
      United States. The Company monitors these risks and believes the risk of
      incurring material losses is remote. 

The
      Company uses purchase commitments through suppliers to reduce a portion of
      its
      cash flow exposure to fuel price fluctuations. At December 31, 2005, the
      notional amount for purchase commitments for 2006 is approximately 45 million
      gallons.  

15.      QUARTERLY
      RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)  

61 

(1) 

Includes
                  a $485 net of tax adjustment for the cumulative effect of a change
                  in
                  accounting principle. 

(2) 

Includes
                  a $19,600 pre-tax adjustment to claims
                  reserves. 

62 

TABLE
          OF CONTENTS  

<EX-21>
 3
 exhibit21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21 (SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT)

Exhibit 21 (Subsidiaries of the Registrant)

Exhibit
      21  

SUBSIDIARIES
      OF THE REGISTRANT 

CIP,
      Inc., a Nevada corporation 

CVTI
      Receivables Corp., a Nevada corporation 

Covenant
      Asset Management, Inc., a Nevada corporation 

Covenant.com,
      Inc., a Nevada corporation 

Covenant
      Transport, Inc., a Tennessee corporation 

Harold
      Ives Trucking Co., an Arkansas corporation 

Southern
      Refrigerated Transport, Inc., an Arkansas corporation 

Volunteer
      Insurance Limited, a Cayman Islands company 

        Back
      to Form 10-K  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 exhibit23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23 (KPMG CONSENT)

Exhibit 23 (KPMG Consent)

Exhibit
      23  

CONSENT
        OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The
      Board
      of Directors and Stockholders 

      Covenant
      Transport, Inc. 

We
        consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements
        on Form
        S-8 (Nos. 33-88686, 333-2654, 333-67559, 333-37356, 333-50174, 333-88486,
        and
        333-105880) of Covenant Transport, Inc. of our reports dated March 31, 2006,
        relating to the consolidated balance sheets of Covenant Transport, Inc. and
        subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
        statements of operations, stockholders  equity and comprehensive income and cash
        flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005,
        management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
        reporting as of December 31, 2005, and the effectiveness of internal control
        over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, which reports appear in
        the
        2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K of Covenant Transport, Inc., and refers to
        a
        change in method of accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations
        in
        2005.  

/s/
      KPMG
      LLP 

Atlanta,
      Georgia 

      March
      31,
      2006 

        Back
      to Form 10-K  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 exhibit311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1 (CERTIFICATION-DAVID PARKER)

Exhibit 31.1 (Certification-David Parker)

Exhibit
      31.1  

CERTIFICATIONS  

I,
      David
      R. Parker, certify that: 

1.           I
      have
      reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Covenant Transport,
      Inc.; 

2.           Based
      on my
      knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact
      or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
      light
      of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with
      respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.           Based
      on my
      knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
      in
      this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
      periods presented in this report; 

4.           The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
      and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
      have: 

a.           Designed
      such
      disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this annual report is being prepared; 

b.           Evaluated
      the
      effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      annual report based on such evaluation; 

c.           Evaluated
      the
      effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and  

d.           Disclosed
      in
      this annual report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
      quarter (the registrant's fourth quarter in the case of an annual report) that
      has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.           The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
      directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a.           All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and 

b.           Any
      fraud,
      whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
      a
      significant role in the registrant's internal controls over financial
      reporting. 

Date:     March
                31, 2006 

/s/
                David R. Parker 

David
                R. Parker 

Chief
                Executive Officer 

Back
      to Form 10-K   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 exhibit312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2 (CERTIFICATION-JOEY HOGAN)

Exhibit 31.2 (Certification-Joey Hogan)

Exhibit
      31.2  

CERTIFICATIONS  

I,
      Joey
      B. Hogan, certify that: 

1.           I
      have
      reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Covenant Transport,
      Inc.; 

2.           Based
      on my
      knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact
      or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
      light
      of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with
      respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.           Based
      on my
      knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
      in
      this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
      periods presented in this report; 

4.           The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
      and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
      have: 

a.           Designed
      such
      disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this annual report is being prepared; 

b.           Evaluated
      the
      effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      annual report based on such evaluation; 

c.           Evaluated
      the
      effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and  

d.           Disclosed
      in
      this annual report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
      quarter (the registrant's fourth quarter in the case of an annual report) that
      has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.           The
      registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
      directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a.           All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and 

b.           Any
      fraud,
      whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
      a
      significant role in the registrant's internal controls over financial
      reporting. 

Back
      to
      Form 10-K   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 exhibit321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1 (906 CERTIFICATION-DAVID PARKER)

Exhibit 32.1 (906 Certification-David Parker)

Exhibit
      32.1  

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 AS ADOPTED  

       PURSUANT
      TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In
      connection with the Annual Report of Covenant Transport, Inc. (the  Company ) on
      Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities
      and
      Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned hereby
      certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350 (as adopted pursuant to   906 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) that he is the Chief Executive Officer of the
      Company and that:  

(1)           The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  

(2)           The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
      the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date:     March
                31, 2006 

/s/
                David R. Parker 

David
                R. Parker 

Chief
                Executive Officer 

A
      signed
      original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided
      to
      Covenant Transport, Inc. and will be retained by Covenant Transport, Inc. and
      furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon
      request. 

Back
      to Form
      10-K  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 exhibit322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2 (906 CERTIFICATION-JOEY HOGAN)

Exhibit 32.2 (906 Certification-Joey Hogan)

Exhibit
      32.2  

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 AS ADOPTED  

       PURSUANT
      TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In
      connection with the Annual Report of Covenant Transport, Inc. (the  Company ) on
      Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities
      and
      Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned hereby
      certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350 (as adopted pursuant to   906 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) that he is the Chief Financial Officer of the
      Company and that:  

(1)           The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  

(2)           The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
      the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

A
      signed
      original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided
      to
      Covenant Transport, Inc. and will be retained by Covenant Transport, Inc. and
      furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon
      request. 

Back
      to Form
      10-K  

</EX-32.2>

