<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_945384_0000945384-06-000009_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2409423</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>421583</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>42461</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1580463</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>64</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000945384-06-000009.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331153154
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000945384-06-000009
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LEVEL 8 SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000945384
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES [7371]
		IRS NUMBER:				112920559
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-26392
		FILM NUMBER:		06728566

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 REGENCY PARKWAY
		CITY:			CARY
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			27511
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9194612577

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 REGENCY PARKWAY
		CITY:			CARY
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			27511

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ACROSS DATA SYSTEMS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19950517

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JIQTpw+9A01q9yl9DW07/PGa0VnENAfnuyVcmnnt7FVw2iPkqtQhZ9gbgy/7N3A2
 OKIzAgFw+EbAZnAVBssozw==

 0000945384-06-000009.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 level82005.htm
 LEVEL 8 SYSTEMS 2005 10-K

Level 8 Systems 2005 10-K

UNITED
      STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

       Washington,
      D.C. 20549  

FORM
      10-K  

[    X    ]
      ANNUAL
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 

      OF
      THE
      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

      For
      the
      fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. 

[_]
      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 

      OF
      THE
      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED] 

      For
      the
      transition period from      
      to

Commission
      File Number: 0-26392 

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

      (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its character) 

_____________ 

Securities
                registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

NONE  

Securities
                registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  

Common
                Stock, $.001 par value   

_____________ 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   Yes
      [ ]
      No [X] 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the above Act.   Yes
      [ ]
      No [X] 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
      to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
      for
      the past 90 days.  

      Yes
      [    X    ]
      No
      [_] 

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of the Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
      this
      Form 10-K. [   X   ] 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
      filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
      one):  

Large
      accelerated filer  [_]    Accelerated
      filer  [_]    Non-accelerated
      filer  [    X    ] 

Aggregate
      market value of the outstanding voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
      Registrant as of June 30, 2005 was approximately $2,153,345.  

There
      were 48,039,947 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of March 28, 2006.

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

Annual
      Report on Form 10-K 

      For
      the
      Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005 

Item 

                Number 

Page 

                Number 

PART
                I 

1.

Business 

1 

2. 

Properties 

10 

3. 

Legal
                Proceedings 

10 

4. 

Submission
                of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

11 

PART
                II 

5. 

Market
                for Level 8 Common Stock and Related Shareholder Matters 

12 

6. 

Selected
                Financial Data 

13 

7. 

Management's
                Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
                Operations 

13 

7A. 

Quantitative
                and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

25 

8. 

Financial
                Statements and Supplementary Data 

25 

9. 

Changes
                in Accountants 

25 

9A. 

Controls
                and Procedures 

25 

9B. 

Other
                Information 

25 

PART
                III 

10. 

Directors
                and Executive Officers of Level 8 

26 

11.

Executive
                Compensation 

30 

12. 

Security
                Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 

31 

13. 

Certain
                Relationships and Related Transactions 

34 

14. 

Principal
                Accountant Fees and Services 

37 

PART
                IV 

15. 

Index
                Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form
                8-K 

39 

SIGNATURES 

45 

INDEX
                TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

F-1 

PART
      I  

Item
      1.       
      Business  

Overview  

Level
      8 Systems, Inc. (the  Company  or  Level 8 ) is a provide   r
      of
      business integration software, known as Cicero, which enables organizations
      to
      integrate new and existing information and processes at the desktop. Our Cicero
      business integration software addresses the emerging need for companies 
information systems to deliver enterprise-wide views of their business
      information processes.       In
      addition to software products, Level 8 also provides technical support, training
      and consulting services as part of its commitment to providing its customers
      with industry-leading integration solutions. Level 8 s consulting team has
      in-depth experience in developing successful enterprise-class solutions as
      well
      as valuable insight into the business information needs of customers in the
      Global 5000. 

The
      Company s focus is on the growing desktop integration and business process
      automation market with our Cicero       
      product.
      Cicero is a business application integration platform that enhances end-user
      productivity, streamlines business operations and integrates systems and
      applications that would not otherwise work together. Cicero software offers
      a
      proven, innovative departure from traditional, costly and labor-intensive
      enterprise application integration, which occurs at the server level. Cicero
      provides non-invasive application integration at the desktop level. Desktop
      level integration provides the user with a single environment with a consistent
      look and feel for diverse applications across multiple operating environments,
      reduces enterprise integration implementation cost and time, and supports a
      Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA). Cicero s desktop level integration also
      enables clients to transform applications, business processes and human
      expertise into a seamless, cost effective business solution that provides a
      cohesive, task-oriented and role-centric composite interface that works the
      way
      people think. 

By
      using
      Cicero software, companies can decrease their customer management costs,
      increase their customer service level and more efficiently cross-sell the full
      range of their products and services resulting in an overall increase in return
      on their information technology investments. In addition, Cicero software
      enables organizations to reduce the business risks inherent in replacement
      of
      mission-critical applications and extend the productive life and functional
      reach of their application portfolio. 

Cicero
      software is engineered to harness diverse business applications and shape them
      to more effectively serve the people who use them. Cicero provides an intuitive
      integration and development environment, which simplifies the integration of
      complex multi-platform applications. Cicero provides a unique approach that
      allows companies to organize components of their existing applications to better
      align them with tasks and operational processes. In addition, Cicero can
      streamline end-user tasks by providing a single, seamless user interface for
      simple access to multiple systems or be configured to display one or more
      composite applications to enhance productivity. Cicero software enables
      automatic information sharing among line-of-business applications and tools.
      It
      is ideal for deployment in contact centers where its highly productive,
      task-oriented user interface promotes user efficiency. Finally, Cicero software,
      by integrating diverse applications across multiple operating systems, is ideal
      for the financial services, for which Cicero was initially developed, insurance,
      telecommunications, intelligence, security, law enforcement, governmental and
      other industries requiring a cost-effective, proven application integration
      solution. Cicero is also an integration solution for merger and acquisition
      events where the sharing of data and combining of systems is
      imperative. 

Some
      of
      the companies and other users that have implemented or are implementing our
      Cicero software product include Nationwide Financial Services, arvato services
      (a division of Bertelsmann A.G.), Science Applications International
      Corporation, IBM and N.E.W. Customer Service Companies. Since the beginning
      of
      2005, we have experienced interest from intelligence, security, law enforcement
      and other government users. The U.S. Department of Agriculture installed Cicero
      software in January 2005, and the West Windsor Township, New Jersey Police
      Department deployed Cicero software in spring 2005. 

In
      addition to our Cicero product, our Ensuredmail email encryption products
      address information and security compliance requirements from the individual
      to
      the enterprise. The Ensuredmail suite of products includes the Enterprise Email
      Encryption Server, Small Business Email Encryption Server, and Email Encryption
      Desktop for individual use. All of the Ensuredmail products use 3-DES encryption
      technology and are tested and federally certified FIPS 140-1. Ensuredmail
      products are easy to install, use and administer. They also use rules and other
      utilities that allow users to flag messages including attachments for
      encryption. Unlike other secure email encryption software applications,
      Ensuredmail products do not require the recipient to install software or use
      special secure keys to open and read messages and attachments. In conjunction
      with Cicero software, Ensuredmail email encryption technology has been used
      to
      secure information shared in Cicero integration projects. 

1 

Some
      of
      the companies using Ensuredmail server products include the United Postal
      Service, E-Loan, the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives,
      Science Application International Association, Physicians Plus Insurance
      Company, Wilmington Trust, Delta Dental, Truog-Ryding Company, and hundreds
      of
      individual users with the Ensuredmail Email Desktop product. Ensuredmail
      customers use email encryption primarily to secure outbound messages with
      confidential information for compliance (e.g., HIPAA) and security
      purposes. 

Level
      8
      Systems, Inc. was incorporated in New York in 1988, and re-incorporated in
      Delaware in 1999. Our principal executive offices are located to 1433 State
      Highway 34, Building C, Farmingdale, New Jersey 07727 and our telephone number
      is (732) 919-3150. Our web site is located at www.level8.com. 

Strategic
      Realignment   

Historically,
      Level 8 Systems, Inc. has been a global provider of software solutions to help
      companies integrate new and existing applications as well as extends those
      applications to the Internet. This market segment is commonly known as
 Enterprise Application Integration  or  EAI.  Historically, EAI solutions work
      directly at the server or back-office level allowing disparate applications
      to
      communicate with each other.  

Until
      early 2001, we focused primarily on the development, sale and support of EAI
      solutions through our Geneva product suite. After extensive strategic
      consultation with outside advisors and an internal analysis of our products
      and
      services, we recognized that a new market opportunity had emerged. This
      opportunity was represented by the increasing need to integrate applications
      that are physically resident on different hardware platforms, a typical
      situation in larger companies. In most cases, companies with large customer
      bases utilize numerous different, or "disparate," applications that were not
      designed to effectively communicate and pass information. In addition,
      traditional EAI is often times too costly and time-consuming to implement.
      It
      also requires a group of programmers with the necessary skills and ongoing
      invasive changes to application software code throughout the enterprise. With
      Cicero software, which non-invasively integrates the functionality of these
      disparate applications at the desktop, we believe that we have found a unique
      solution to this disparate application problem. We believe that our existing
      experience in and understanding of the EAI marketplace coupled with the unique
      Cicero software solution, which approaches traditional EAI needs in a more
      effective manner, position us to be a competitive provider of business
      integration solutions to the financial services and other industries with large
      deployed call centers, as well as our other target markets. 

We
      originally licensed the Cicero technology and related patents on a worldwide
      basis from Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated in August of
      2000 under a license agreement containing standard provisions and a two-year
      exclusivity period. On January 3, 2002, the license agreement was amended to
      extend our exclusive worldwide marketing, sales and development rights to Cicero
      in perpetuity (subject to Merrill Lynch's rights to terminate in the event
      of
      bankruptcy or a change in control of Level 8) and to grant ownership rights
      in
      the Cicero trademark. Merrill Lynch indemnifies us with regard to the rights
      granted to us by them. Consideration for the original Cicero license consisted
      of 1,000,000 shares of our common stock. In exchange for the amendment, we
      granted an additional 250,000 shares of common stock to MLBC, Inc., a Merrill
      Lynch affiliate and entered into a royalty sharing agreement. Under the royalty
      sharing agreement, we pay a royalty of 3% of the sales price for each sale
      of
      Cicero or related maintenance services. The royalties over the life of the
      agreement are not payable in excess of $20 million. We have completely
      re-implemented the Cicero software to provide increased functionality and much
      more powerful integration capabilities. 

In
      April
      2001, management reassessed the methodology by which Level 8 would make
      operating decisions and allocate resources. Operating decisions and performance
      assessments were based on the following reportable segments: (1) Desktop
      Integration (Cicero), (2) System Integration (Geneva Enterprise Integrator
      and
      Geneva Business Process Automator) and (3) Messaging and Application
      Engineering (Geneva Integration Broker, Geneva Message Queuing, Geneva XIPC
      and
      Geneva AppBuilder). In connection with executing our strategic realignment
      and
      focusing on Cicero, we have restructured our business, reduced our number of
      employees and, in the fourth quarter of 2002, sold the remaining assets
      associated with Geneva Enterprise Integrator and Geneva Business Process
      Automator. We have sold most of the assets comprising the Messaging and
      Application Engineering Products segment and all of the assets in the Systems
      Integration Segment. Level 8 has recognized the Systems Integration segment
      as a
      discontinued business and accordingly, has reclassified those assets and
      liabilities on the accompanying balance sheets for 2002 and 2003 and segregated
      the results of operations under gain or loss from a discontinued business on
      the
      accompanying statement of operations. As such, the Systems Integration segment
      has been eliminated. Geneva Integration Broker is the only current software
      product represented in the Messaging and Application Engineering
      segment. 

2 

The
      Company s future revenues are entirely dependent on acceptance of Cicero which
      has limited success in commercial markets to date. The Company has experienced
      negative cash flows from operations for the past three years and operating
      losses for those three years. At December 31, 2005, the Company had a working
      capital deficiency of approximately $13,894,000. Accordingly, there is
      substantial doubt that the Company can continue as a going concern, and the
      independent auditor s report accompanying our financial statements raises doubt
      about our ability to continue as a going concern. In order to address these
      issues and to obtain adequate financing for the Company s operations for the
      next twelve months, the Company is actively promoting and expanding its product
      line and continues to negotiate with significant customers who have demonstrated
      interest in the Cicero technology. The Company is experiencing difficulty
      increasing sales revenue largely because of the inimitable nature of the product
      as well as customer concerns about the Company s financial viability. Cicero
      software is a new  category defining  product in that most Enterprise
      Application Integration (EAI) projects are performed at the server level and
      Cicero s integration occurs at the desktop level without the need to open and
      modify the underlying code for those applications being integrated. Many
      companies are not aware of this new technology or tend to look toward more
      traditional and accepted approaches. The Company is attempting to solve the
      former problem by improving the market s knowledge and understanding of Cicero
      through increased marketing and leveraging its limited number of reference
      accounts while enhancing its list of resellers and system integrators to assist
      in the sales and marketing process. Additionally, the Company is seeking
      additional equity capital or other strategic transactions in the near term
      to
      provide additional liquidity.  

In
      December 31, 2004, the Company completed a Note and Warrant Offering wherein
      it
      has raised a total of approximately $1,615,000, of which $67,000 was received
      in
      2005. Under the terms of the Offer, warrant holders of Level 8 s common stock
      were offered a one-time conversion of their existing warrants at a conversion
      price of $0.10 per share as part of a recapitalization merger plan. Those
      warrant holders who elected to convert, tendered their conversion price in
      cash
      and received a Note Payable in exchange. In early 2005, the Company announced
      an
      extension to the Note and Warrant offering of which the Company raised an
      additional $944,000, for a total of approximately $2,559,000. Upon approval
      of
      the recapitalization merger at a Shareholders meeting, these Notes would convert
      into common shares of Cicero, Inc., the surviving corporation in the merger.
      The
      Company also entered into several Convertible Bridge Notes with a consortium
      of
      investors. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had raised $1,760,000 of
      Convertible Bridge Notes of which $566,000 was from various members of the
      Company s Board of Directors. Under the terms of these Notes, holders will
      convert their Notes into 62,490,887 shares of Cicero, Inc. common stock upon
      effectiveness of the proposed recapitalization merger.  

The
      Company expects that increased revenues will reduce its operating losses in
      future periods; however, there can be no assurance that management will be
      successful in executing as anticipated or in a timely manner. If these
      strategies are unsuccessful, the Company may have to pursue other means of
      financing that may not be on terms favorable to the Company or its stockholders.
      If the Company is unable to increase cash flow or obtain financing, it may
      not
      be able to generate enough capital to fund operations for the next twelve
      months. At our current rates of expense and assuming revenues for the next
      twelve months at an annualized rate of our revenue for the year ended 2005,
      we
      will be able to fund planned operations with existing capital resources for
      a
      minimum of four months and experience negative cash flow of approximately
      $1,900,000 during the next twelve months to maintain planned operations. The
      accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis,
      which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities
      in the normal course of business. The financial statements presented herein
      do
      not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability of assets and
      classification of liabilities that might be necessary should Level 8 be unable
      to continue as a going concern. 

Products  

Desktop
      Integration Segment   

Cicero    .
      Cicero
      software integrates disparate applications regardless of the platform, enables
      rapid development of effective, simple-to-maintain composite applications,
      accelerates time to value and deploys cost-effective, "best-of-breed" business
      solutions by leveraging existing IT investments. Cicero software helps the
      architect maintain consistent integration project design and implementation
      by
      providing extensible, standardized methods for interacting with Windows
      applications, COM objects, web pages, commercial software packages, legacy
      applications, and Java applications among others. Cicero software can integrate
      applications running on the server or desktop, giving the architect complete
      flexibility in determining where, when, and how application integration occurs.
      Cicero software can also be used to capture and aggregate data from many
      different applications, apply business rules as needed, such as data
      transformation rules, and share that data bi-directionally via a composite
      view.
      An event in one application can cause processing in another unrelated
      application, even if these were implemented using differing technologies, such
      as Windows and Java. 

3 

The
      patented Cicero software technology, as exclusively licensed from Merrill Lynch,
      consists of several components, including the following: The Resource Manager,
      which manages the starting, stopping, and status of applications; the Event
      Manager, a Component Object Model (COM)-based messaging service; the Context
      Manager which administers the  publish and subscribe  protocols; and a Graphical
      User Interface (GUI) manager which allows applications to be presented to the
      user in one or more flexible formats selected by the user organization. In
      2004,
      we released a version of the Cicero product which included our newly developed
      Cicero Studio integration tool, to allow applications to be integrated using
      point-and-click methods. Cicero software incorporates an Application Bus with
      code modules to handle the inter-application connections. There are additional
      tools that provide ancillary functions for the integrator including tools to
      debug, view history and trace logs.  

Cicero
      Studio provides a nontraditional approach to application integration. By
      providing a high level of object-oriented integration, Cicero Studio eliminates
      the need for source code modification. It includes high-level integration
      objects called genes (which translate disparate application interface protocols
      to one common interface used by Cicero software), an event processor, a context
      manager and a publish-subscribe information bus that enables applications to
      share data. It also includes a set of integration wizards that greatly simplify
      the task of application integration. 

Cicero
      Studio is a powerful integration tool that eliminates most of the technical
      complexity associated with application integration. Integrators avoid the high
      cost and complexity of invasive code modifications and extend the scope of
      their
      integration capabilities into new and legacy environments. Cicero Studio
      provides an open architecture that can be extended to incorporate new behaviors
      by adding genes and communicating with COM objects. This enables Cicero software
      to be extended to accommodate new platforms and interface requirements as needed
      and provides a rich paradigm for evolving integration behaviors over time.
      It
      also means that Cicero software can be implemented in both the desktop and
      n-tier server of a service-oriented architecture. 

Cicero
      software runs on Windows NT, Windows XP, and Windows 2000 to organize
      applications in a flexible graphical configuration that keeps all the
      application functionality that the user needs within easy reach. For instance,
      selecting the  memo  tab might cause a Microsoft Word memo-template to be
      created within the Cicero desktop. The end-user need not even know that they
      are
      using Microsoft Word. Moreover, a customer-tracking database can be linked
      with
      a customer relationship management software package. 

Cicero
      software technology provides non-intrusive integration of desktop and web
      applications, portals, third-party business tools, and even legacy mainframe
      and
      client server applications, so all co-exist and share their information
      seamlessly. Cicero software s non-invasive technology means that clients don t
      risk modifying either fragile source code or sensitive application program
      interfaces - and they can easily integrate off-the-shelf products and emerging
      technologies. 

Cicero
      software allows end-users to access applications in the most efficient way
      possible, by only allowing them to use the relevant portions of that
      application. For instance, a contact center customer service representative
      may
      not use 90% of the functionality of Microsoft Word, but might need access to
      a
      memorandum and other custom designed forms as well as basic editing
      functionality. Cicero can be set to control access to only those templates
      and,
      in a sense, turn-off the unused functionality by not allowing the end-user
      direct access to the underlying application. Under the same Cicero
      implementation, however, a different Cicero configuration could allow the
      employees in the Marketing department full access to Word because they have
      need
      of the full functionality. The functionality of the  

4 

applications
      that Cicero integrates can be modulated by the business goals of the ultimate
      client, the parent company. This ability to limit user access to certain
      functions within applications enables companies to reduce their training burden
      by limiting the portions of the applications on which they are required to
      train
      their customer service representatives. 

Messaging
      and Application Engineering Segment    

Ensuredmail     .
         Our
      Ensuredmail products provide encrypted email capabilities such as security,
      proof-of-delivery and non-repudiation of origination. The recipient of an
      Ensuredmail message does not need to be an Ensuredmail licensee or install
      software. When an Ensuredmail user sends a message to another user, the
      recipient receives an email message with an attached encrypted message. The
      recipient opens the attached, which starts their web browser, enters a password,
      and can read the message and attachments. If the recipient replies to the
      message, the message is fully encrypted and sent back securely to the original
      sender. Organizations typically use our server-based Ensuredmail products,
      whereas individuals can use a person-to-person desktop variation. 

Ensuredmail
      is FIPS140-1 certified, and in use by agencies of the Federal Government, in
      addition to private sector organizations. 

Geneva
      Integration Broker     .
         Geneva
      Integration Broker does not represent a significant portion of Level 8 s current
      business or prospects. Geneva Integration Broker is a transport independent
      message broker that enables an organization to rapidly integrate diverse
      business systems regardless of platform, transport, format or protocol. The
      key
      feature of Geneva Integration Broker is its support for XML and other standards
      for open data exchange on the Internet. The product provides a robust platform
      for building eBusiness applications that integrate with existing back-office
      systems. Geneva Integration Broker s support for open data exchange and secure
      Internet transports is used for building Internet-based business-to-business
      solutions.  

Services  

We
      provide a full spectrum of technical support, training and consulting services
      across all of our operating segments as part of our commitment to providing
      our
      customers industry-leading business integration solutions. Experts in the field
      of systems integration with backgrounds in development, consulting, and business
      process reengineering staff our services organization. In addition, our services
      professionals have substantial industry specific backgrounds with extraordinary
      depth in our focus marketplace of financial services. 

Maintenance
      and Support   

We
      offer
      customers varying levels of technical support tailored to their needs, including
      periodic software upgrades, telephone support and twenty-four hour, seven days
      a
      week access to support-related information via the Internet. Cicero and
      Ensuredmail software are frequently used in mission-critical business
      situations, and our maintenance and support services are accustomed to the
      critical demands that must be met to deliver world-class service to our clients.
      Many of the members of our staff have expertise in lights-out mission critical
      environments and are ready to deliver service commensurate with those unique
      client needs. 

Training
      Services   

Our
      training organization offers a full curriculum of courses and labs designed
      to
      help customers become proficient in the use of our products and related
      technology as well as enabling customers to take full advantage of our
      field-tested best practices and methodologies. Our training organization seeks
      to enable client organizations to gain the proficiency needed in our products
      for full client self-sufficiency but retains the flexibility to tailor their
      curriculum to meet specific needs of our clients.  

Consulting
      Services   

We
      offer
      consulting services around our product offerings in project management,
      applications and platform integration, application design and development and
      application renewal, along with expertise in a wide variety of development
      environments and programming languages. We also have an active partner program
      in which we recruit leading IT consulting and system integration firms to
      provide services for the design, implementation and deployment of our solutions.
      Our consulting organization supports third party consultants by providing
      architectural and enabling services. 

5 

Customers  

Our
        customers
        include both end-users to whom we sell our products and services directly
        and
        distributors and other intermediaries who either resell our products to
        end-users or incorporate our products into their own product offerings. Typical
        end-users of our products and services are large businesses with sophisticated
        technology requirements for contact centers, in the financial services,
        insurance and telecommunications industries, and intelligence, security,
        law
        enforcement and other governmental organizations. 

Our
        customers
        are using our solutions to rapidly deploy applications. Some examples of
        customers' uses of our products include:  

Business
        Process Outsourcers   
        - use
        our Cicero solution to provide in contact centers real time integration among
        existing back-office systems, eliminate redundant data entry, shorten call
        times, provide real-time data access and enhance customer service and service
        levels. 

A
        financial institution   
        - uses
        our Cicero solution to provide real-time integration among market data, customer
        account information, existing back-office systems and other legacy applications,
        eliminate redundant data entry, provide real-time data access and processing,
        and enhance customer service and service levels. 

An
        insurance company   
        - uses
        our Cicero solution to integrate their customer information systems with
        over
        thirty software applications including a CRM application. 

A
        law
        enforcement organization   
        - uses
        our Cicero solution to streamline and automate support for arrests and
        investigations while merging federal, state and local systems within a unified
        process. 

Other
        customers are systems integrators, which use our Cicero product to develop
        integration solutions for their customers. 

More
        than
        4,000 Merrill Lynch personnel are currently using Cicero software. We licensed
        the Cicero technology from Merrill Lynch during 2000 and have enhanced it
        to
        license to contact centers and the financial services, insurance and
        telecommunications industries, as well as the intelligence, security, law
        enforcement and other governmental organizations. Our significant customers
        include Nationwide Financial Services, arvato services, a division of
        Bertelsmann A.G., Bank of America, IBM, Science Applications International
        Corporation, N.E.W. Customer Service Companies and the West Windsor Township,
        New Jersey Police Department. 

Bank
        of
        America, Nationwide Financial Services, and Gateway Electronic Medical
        Management Systems (GEMMS) each accounted for more than ten percent (10%)
        of our
        operating revenues in 2003. In 2004, Bank of America, Convergys, IBM, Nationwide
        Financial Services and SAIC each accounted for more than ten percent (10%)
        of
        our operating revenue. In 2005, NEW Customer Service Companies and Innovative
        System Solutions Corporation accounted for more than ten percent (10%) of
        our
        operating revenue. 

Sales
      and Marketing  

Sales   

An
      important element of our sales strategy is to supplement our direct sales force
      by expanding our relationships with third parties to increase market awareness
      and acceptance of our business integration software solutions. As part of these
      relationships, we continue to jointly sell and implement Cicero software
      solutions with strategic partners such as systems integrators and embed Cicero
      along with other products through OEM relationships. We provide training and
      other support necessary to systems integrators and OEMs to aid in the promotion
      of our products. To date we have entered into strategic partnerships with the
      following OEMs, for integrated business solutions: Science Applications
      International Corporation, ThinkCentric, Hewlett Packard, House of Code and
      Titan Systems Corporation. In addition, we have entered into strategic
      partnerships with Silent Systems, Inc., ADPI LLC, arvato services, a division
      of
      Bertelsmann A.G, GEMMS, Genesis Technology Group Inc., Plan B Technologies
      Inc.,
      Pilar Services, Inc., and Gini Corporation. These organizations have
      relationships with existing customers and have access to organizations requiring
      top secret or classified access. In addition, several of these partners can
      bundle Cicero with other software to provide a comprehensive solution to
      customers. We are not materially dependent on any of these organizations.
      Generally, our agreements with such partners provide for price discounts based
      on their sales volume, with no minimum required volume. 

6 

Marketing   

The
      target market for our products and services are large companies operating
      contact centers and in the financial services, insurance and telecommunications
      industries, as well users in the intelligence, security and law enforcement
      communities and other governmental organizations. Increasing competitiveness
      and
      consolidation is driving companies in such businesses to increase the efficiency
      and quality of their customer contact centers. As a result, customer contact
      centers are compelled by both economic necessity and internal mandates to find
      ways to increase internal efficiency, increase customer satisfaction, increase
      effective cross-selling, decrease staff turnover cost and leverage their
      investment in current information technology. 

Our
      marketing staff has an in-depth understanding of the customer contact center
      software marketplace and the needs of these customers, as well as experience
      in
      all of the key marketing disciplines. They also have knowledge of the financial
      services industry and government organizations that have focused on application
      integration solutions to address needs in mergers and acquisitions and homeland
      security. 

Core
      marketing functions include product marketing, marketing communications and
      strategic alliances. We utilize focused marketing programs that are intended
      to
      attract potential customers in our target vertical industries and to promote
      our
      company and our brands. Our marketing programs are specifically directed at
      our
      target markets, and include speaking engagements, public relations campaigns,
      focused trade shows and web site marketing, while devoting substantial resources
      to supporting the field sales team with high quality sales tools and ancillary
      material. As product acceptance grows and our target markets increase, we will
      shift to broader marketing programs.  

The
      marketing department also produces ancillary material for presentation or
      distribution to prospects, including demonstrations, presentation materials,
      white papers, case studies, articles, brochures, and data sheets.  

Research
      and Product Development  

In
      connection with the narrowing of our strategic focus, and in light of the sale
      of our Systems Integration products, we have experienced an overall reduction
      in
      research and development costs. Since Cicero is a new product in a relatively
      untapped market, it is imperative to constantly enhance the feature sets and
      functionality of the product. 

We
      incurred research and development expense of approximately $891,000, $1,111,000
      and $1,017,000 in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The decrease in costs
      in
      2005 reflects the reduction in headcount by two employees, plus associated
      overheads. The increase in research and development costs in 2004 as compared
      with 2003 is attributable to an allocation of certain costs primarily from
      General and Administrative costs.  

The
      markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies,
      evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short
      product life cycles. Our future success will depend to a substantial degree
      upon
      our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce,
      on a
      timely and cost-effective basis, new products and features that meet changing
      customer requirements and emerging and evolving industry standards. 

Our
      budgets for research and development are based on planned product introductions
      and enhancements. Actual expenditures, however, may significantly differ from
      budgeted expenditures. Inherent in the product development process are a number
      of risks. The development of new, technologically advanced software products
      is
      a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well
      as
      the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. 

The
      introduction of new or enhanced products also requires us to manage the
      transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customer
      ordering patterns, as well as ensure that adequate supplies of new products
      can
      be delivered to meet customer demand. There can be no assurance that we will
      successfully develop, introduce or manage the transition to new
      products. 

We
      have
      in the past, and may in the future, experience delays in the introduction of
      our
      products, due to factors internal and external to our business. Any future
      delays in the introduction or shipment of new or enhanced products, the
      inability of such products to gain market acceptance or problems associated
      with
      new product transitions could adversely affect our results of operations,
      particularly on a quarterly basis. 

7 

Competition  

The
        markets in which we compete are highly competitive and subject to rapid change.
        These markets are highly fragmented and served by numerous firms. We believe
        that the competitive factors affecting the markets for our products and services
        include: 

Product
        functionality and features; 

Availability
        and quality of support services; 

Ease
        of product
        implementation; 

Price; 

Product
        reputation;
        and 

Our
        financial stability. 

The
        relative importance of each of these factors depends upon the specific customer
        environment. Although we believe that our products and services can compete
        favorably, we may not be able to increase our competitive position against
        current and potential competitors. In addition, many companies choose to
        deploy
        their own information technology personnel or utilize system integrators
        to
        write new code or rewrite existing applications in an effort to develop
        integration solutions. As a result, prospective customers may decide against
        purchasing and implementing externally developed and produced solutions such
        as
        ours. 

We
        compete with companies that utilize varying approaches to modernize, web-enable
        and integrate existing software applications:  

Portal
                  software offers the ability to aggregate information at a single
                  point,
                  but not the ability to integrate transactions from a myriad of
                  information
                  systems on the desktop. Plumtree is a representative company in
                  the Portal
                  market. 

Middleware
                  software provides integration of applications through messages
                  and data
                  exchange implemented typically in the middle tier of the application
                  architecture. This approach requires modification of the application
                  source code and substantial infrastructure investments and operational
                  expense. Reuters, TIBCO and IBM MQSeries are competitors in the
                  middleware
                  market. 

CRM
                  software offers application tools that allow developers to build
                  product
                  specific interfaces and custom applications. This approach is not
                  designed
                  to be product neutral and is often dependent on deep integration
                  with
                  Level 8 s technology. Siebel is a representative product in the CRM
                  software category. 

Other
        competitors include Above All Software, Attachmate Corporation, Seagull Software
        Ltd. and Oracle. Our Cicero product competes directly with other contact
        center
        solutions offered by Microsoft, Corizon and Jacada. We expect additional
        competition from other established and emerging companies. Furthermore, our
        competitors may combine with each other, or other companies may enter our
        markets by acquiring or entering into strategic relationships with our
        competitors. Many of our current and possible future competitors have greater
        name recognition, a larger installed customer base and greater financial,
        technical, marketing and other resources than we have. 

We
        believe that our ability to compete depends in part on a number of competitive
        factors outside our control, including the ability of our competitors to
        hire,
        retain and motivate senior project managers, the ownership by competitors
        of
        software used by potential clients, the development by others of software
        that
        is competitive with our products and services, the price at which others
        offer
        comparable services and the extent of our competitors  responsiveness to
        customer needs. 

Intellectual
      Property  

Our
      success is dependent upon developing, protecting and maintaining our
      intellectual property assets. We rely upon combinations of copyright, trademark
      and trade secrecy protections, along with contractual provisions, to protect
      our
      intellectual property rights in software, documentation, data models,
      methodologies, data processing  

8 

systems
      and related written materials in the international marketplace. In addition,
      Merrill Lynch holds a patent with respect to the Cicero technology. Copyright
      protection is generally available under United States laws and international
      treaties for our software and printed materials. The effectiveness of these
      various types of protection can be limited, however, by variations in laws
      and
      enforcement procedures from country to country. We use the registered trademarks
       Level 8 Systems ,  Cicero ,  Ensuredmail , and the trademarks  Level 8 ,  Level
      8 Technologies , and  Geneva Integration Broker .  

All
      other
      product and company names mentioned herein are for identification purposes
      only
      and are the property of, and may be trademarks of, their respective
      owners. 

There
      can
      be no assurance that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation
      of
      our technology, and such protections do not preclude competitors from developing
      products with functionality or features similar to our products. Furthermore,
      there can be no assurance that third parties will not independently develop
      competing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our
      technologies. Additionally, with respect to the Cicero line of software
      products, there can be no assurance that Merrill Lynch will protect its patents
      or that we will have the resources to successfully pursue infringers.

Although
      we do not believe that our products infringe the proprietary rights of any
      third
      parties, there can be no assurance that infringement claims will not be asserted
      against our customers or us in the future. In addition, we may be required
      to
      indemnify our distribution partners and end users for similar claims made
      against them. Furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against third
      parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity
      of our proprietary rights. Litigation, either as a plaintiff or defendant,
      would
      cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management resources from
      productive tasks whether or not said litigation is resolved in our favor, which
      could have a material adverse effect on our business operating results and
      financial condition.  

As
      the
      number of software products in the industry increases and the functionality
      of
      these products further overlaps, we believe that software developers and
      licensors may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any such
      claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to defend
      and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial
      condition. 

Employees  

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, we employed 20 employees. Our employees are not represented
      by a union or a collective bargaining agreement. 

We
      believe that to fully implement our business plan we will be required to enhance
      our ability to work with the Microsoft Windows NT, Windows XP, and Windows
      2000
      operating systems as well as the Linux operating system by adding additional
      development personnel as well as additional direct sales personnel to complement
      our sales plan. Although we believe that we will be successful in attracting
      and
      retaining qualified employees to fill these positions, no assurance can be
      given
      that we will be successful in attracting and retaining these employees now
      or in
      the future. 

Available
      Information  

Our
      web
      address is www.level8.com. We make available free of charge through our Web
      site
      our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
      on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
      practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to
      the
      Securities Exchange Commission. 

Forward
      Looking and Cautionary Statements  

Certain
      statements contained in this Annual Report may constitute "forward looking
      statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
      Act
      of 1995 ("Reform Act"). We may also make forward looking statements in other
      reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials
      delivered to shareholders, in press releases and in other public statements.
      In
      addition, our representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking
      statements. Forward looking statements provide current expectations of future
      events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not
      directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as "anticipates,"
      "believes," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar
      expressions, may identify such forward looking statements. In accordance with
      the Reform Act, set forth below are cautionary statements that accompany those
      forward looking statements. Readers should carefully review these cautionary
      statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual
      results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and
      from historical trends. The following cautionary statements are not

9 

exclusive
      and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in our filings with
      the
      Securities and Exchange Commission and in materials incorporated therein by
      reference: there may be a question as to our ability to operate as a going
      concern, our future success depends on the market acceptance of the Cicero
      product and successful execution of the new strategic direction; general
      economic or business conditions may be less favorable than expected, resulting
      in, among other things, lower than expected revenues; an unexpected revenue
      shortfall may adversely affect our business because our expenses are largely
      fixed; our quarterly operating results may vary significantly because we are
      not
      able to accurately predict the amount and timing of individual sales and this
      may adversely impact our stock price; trends in sales of our products and
      general economic conditions may affect investors' expectations regarding our
      financial performance and may adversely affect our stock price; our future
      results may depend upon the continued growth and business use of the Internet;
      we may lose market share and be required to reduce prices as a result of
      competition from our existing competitors, other vendors and information systems
      departments of customers; we may not have the ability to recruit, train and
      retain qualified personnel; rapid technological change could render the
      Company's products obsolete; loss of any one of our major customers could
      adversely affect our business; our business is subject to a number of risks
      associated with doing business abroad including the effect of foreign currency
      exchange fluctuations on our results of operations; our products may contain
      undetected software errors, which could adversely affect our business; because
      our technology is complex, we may be exposed to liability claims; we may be
      unable to enforce or defend its ownership and use of proprietary technology;
      because we are a technology company, our common stock may be subject to erratic
      price fluctuations; and we may not have sufficient liquidity and capital
      resources to meet changing business conditions.  

Market
      Risk   

The
      Company was delisted from the NASDAQ SmallCap market effective January 23,
      2003.
      The Company s common stock presently is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin
      Board. 

Item
      2.        Properties  

Our
      corporate headquarters are located in approximately 1,300 square feet of office
      space in Farmingdale, New Jersey, pursuant to a twelve-month sublease from
      one
      of our resellers that expired in August, 2005. We are continuing to occupy
      such
      premises on a month-to-month basis. The United States operations group and
      administrative functions are based in offices of approximately 2,956 square
      feet
      in our Cary, North Carolina office pursuant to a lease expiring in 2007. The
      research and development and customer support groups are located in the
      Farmingdale, New Jersey and Cary, North Carolina facilities. 

Item
      3.        Legal
      Proceedings  

Various
      lawsuits and claims have been brought against us in the normal course of our
      business. In January 2003, an action was brought against us in the Circuit
      Court
      of Loudon County, Virginia, for a breach of a real estate lease. The case was
      settled in August 2003. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we agreed
      to assign a note receivable with recourse equal to the unpaid portion of the
      note should the note obligor default on future payments. The unpaid balance
      of
      the note was $545,000, of which the current unpaid principal portion is
      approximately $247,000 and it matures in December 2007. We assessed the
      probability of liability under the recourse provisions using a weighted
      probability cash flow analysis and have recognized a long-term liability in
      the
      amount of $131,000.  

In
      October 2003, we were served with a summons and complaint in Superior Court
      of
      North Carolina regarding unpaid invoices for services rendered by one of our
      subcontractors. The amount in dispute was approximately $200,000 and is included
      in accounts payable. Subsequent to March 31, 2004, we settled this litigation.
      Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we agreed to pay a total of
      $189,000 plus interest over a 19-month period ending November 15, 2005. The
      Company is in the process of negotiating a series of payments for the remaining
      liability of approximately $80,000. 

In
      March
      2004, we were served with a summons and complaint in Superior Court of North
      Carolina regarding a security deposit for a sublease in Virginia. The amount
      in
      dispute is approximately $247,000. In October 2004, we reached a settlement
      agreement wherein we agreed to pay $160,000 over a 24-month period ending
      October 2006. 

In
      August
      2004, we were notified that we were in default under an existing lease agreement
      for office facilities in Princeton, New Jersey. The amount of the default is
      approximately $65,000. Under the terms of the lease agreement, we may be liable
      for future rents should the space remain vacant. We have reached a settlement
      agreement with the landlord which calls for a total payment of $200,000 over
      a
      20-month period ending July 2006.  

10 

In
      April
      2005, we were notified that Critical Mass Mail, Inc. had filed a claim against
      us for failure to pay certain liabilities under an Asset Purchase Agreement
      dated January 9, 2004. We in turn filed that Critical Mass Mail, Inc. failed
      to
      deliver certain assets and other documents under the same Asset purchase
      agreement. We had already reserved the potential liability under the Agreement
      as part of the asset purchase accounting. On March 1, 2006, Critical Mass Mail
      amended their complaint and is seeking damages of approximately $600,000 for
      our
      failure to timely register the underlying securities issued in the Asset
      Purchase. We believe that the probability of an unfavorable outcome is remote
      and accordingly, we have not reserved for this contingency. 

Under
      the
      indemnification clause of the Company s standard reseller agreements and
      software license agreements, the Company agrees to defend the reseller/licensee
      against third party claims asserting infringement by the Company s products of
      certain intellectual property rights, which may include patents, copyrights,
      trademarks or trade secrets, and to pay any judgments entered on such claims
      against the reseller/licensee.  

Item
      4.        Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

None. 

11 

PART
      II  

Item
      5.       Market
      For Registrant's Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
      of Equity Securities.   

Our
      common stock has been traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol
      ''LVEL  from 1996 until December 23, 2002. From December 24, 2002, until January
      23, 2003, our common stock traded on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. As of January
      23, 2003, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market and
      is
      currently quoted on the over-the-counter bulletin board. We have never declared
      or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We anticipate that all of our
      earnings will be retained for the operation and expansion of our business and
      do
      not anticipate paying any cash dividends for common stock in the foreseeable
      future. The chart below sets forth the high and low stock prices for the
      quarters of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.  

The
      closing price of the common stock on December 31, 2005 was $0.02 per share.
      As
      of March 13, 2006 we had 205 registered shareholders of record.  

Recent
      Sales of Unregistered Securities  

In
      2004,
      the Company announced a Note and Warrant Offering in which warrant holders
      of
      Level 8 s common stock were offered a one-time conversion of their existing
      warrants at a conversion price of $0.10 per share as part of a recapitalization
      merger plan.       The
      senior secured notes issued in the aggregate principal amount of $2,559,000
      to
      holders of warrants of Level 8 who loaned to Level 8 the exercise price of
      their
      warrants and other investors who lent funds to Level 8 in exchange for Senior
      Reorganization Notes and additional warrants, pursuant to note and warrant
      offerings in December 2004 ($1,615,000, of which $67,000 was received in 2005)
      and March 2005 ($944,000) (the  Note and Warrant Offerings ), will be cancelled
      and the existing warrants in respect of which the exercise price was loaned
      to
      Level 8, as evidenced by the Senior Reorganization Notes, will be exercised.
      Such warrant holders were offered a special one-time exercise price of the
      lesser of $0.10 per share and the original exercise price as part of the merger
      agreement. The exercise price of the warrants at that time ranged from $0.07
      to
      $0.60. 

As
      part
      of the Note and Warrant Offering Level 8 will issue Additional Warrants to
      Senior Reorganization Noteholders in connection with their loans to Level 8,
      such warrants exercisable at $0.002 per share in the event of the consummation
      of the merger agreement, these warrants will automatically be deemed
      exercised, by applying the accrued interest on their Senior Reorganization
      Notes
      and by cashless exercise to the extent of the balance of the exercise price,
      upon the consummation of the recapitalization merger. The shares issuable upon
      exercise of the Additional Warrants will convert into an aggregate of 19,360,959
      shares of Cicero common stock in the recapitalization merger (less the number
      of
      shares to be applied to the cashless exercise). 

Senior
      Reorganization Noteholders who loaned Level 8 the first $1,000,000 in respect
      of
      the exercise price of their warrants pursuant to the Note and Warrant Offering
      will receive warrants of Level 8 ( Early Adopter Warrants ) at a ratio of 2:1
      for shares issuable upon exercise of each existing warrant exercised at the
      special exercise price (before adjustment by the merger exchange ratio) of
      $0.10
      per share, as part of the recapitalization merger. In the recapitalization
      merger, Early Adopter Warrants will convert into warrants of Cicero for an
      aggregate of 1,005,562 shares of Cicero, and the exercise price increased to
      $2.00 per share. 

These
      securities were issued under the exemption offered by Rule 506 of Regulation
      D
      under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933.  

In
      2005,
      the Company entered into several Convertible Bridge Notes with a consortium
      of
      investors. These notes bear interest at 10% and mature at various dates
      beginning on September 15, 2005. The Notes are convertible into shares of
      Cicero, Inc. common stock upon effectiveness of the proposed recapitalization
      merger at a conversion rate of $0.025. As of December 31, 2005, the Company
      has
      raised $1,760,000 of Convertible Bridge Notes of  

12 

which
      $566,000 was from various members of the Company s Board of Directors. If the
      merger proposal is not approved, the Notes will immediately become due and
      payable. These securities were issued under the exemption offered by Rule 506
      of
      Regulation D of the Securities Act of 1933. 

The
      Company has not repurchased any shares of its stock.  

Item
      6.       Selected
      Financial Data.   

The
      following selected financial data is derived from the consolidated financial
      statements of the Company. The data should be read in conjunction with the
      consolidated financial statements, related notes, and other financial
      information included herein.  

See
      Item
      7 for a discussion of the entities included in operations (in
      thousands). 

Item
      7.             Management's
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
      (dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts)   .

General
      Information   

Level
      8
      Systems is a global provider of business integration software that enables
      organizations to integrate new and existing information and processes at the
      desktop with our Cicero software product. Business integration software
      addresses the emerging need for a company's information systems to deliver
      enterprise-wide views of the company's business information processes. The
      Company also provides email encryption products that address information and
      security compliance from the individual to the enterprise. 

In
      addition to software products, Level 8 also provides technical support, training
      and consulting services as part of its commitment to providing its customers
      industry-leading integration solutions. Level 8 s consulting team has in-depth
      experience in developing successful enterprise-class solutions as well as
      valuable insight into the business information needs of customers in the Global
      5000. Level 8 offers services around our integration and encryption software
      products.     

This
      discussion contains forward-looking statements relating to such matters as
      anticipated financial performance, business prospects, technological
      developments, new products, research and development activities, liquidity
      and
      capital resources and similar matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform
      Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. In order
      to
      comply with the terms of the safe harbor, the Company notes that a variety
      of
      factors could cause its actual results to differ materially from the anticipated
      results or other expectations expressed in the Company's forward-looking
      statements. See ''Item 1. Business Forward Looking and Cautionary Statements.''

13 

Business
      Strategy     

Management
      makes operating decisions and assesses performance of Level 8 s operations based
      on the following reportable segments: (1) Desktop Integration and (2) Messaging
      and Application Engineering.  

The
      Desktop Integration segment is comprised of the Cicero product. Cicero is a
      business integration software product that maximizes end-user productivity,
      streamlines business operations and integrates disparate systems and
      applications, while renovating or rejuvenating older legacy systems by making
      them usable in the business processes. 

The
      products that comprise the Messaging and Application Engineering segment are
      Geneva Integration Broker and Ensuredmail. Geneva Integration Broker is a
      transport independent message broker that enables an organization to rapidly
      integrate diverse business systems regardless of platform, transport, format
      or
      protocol. Ensuredmail is an encrypted email technology that can reside on either
      the server or the desktop. 

Results
      of Operations  

The
      following table sets forth, for the years indicated, the Company's results
      of
      continuing operations expressed as a percentage of revenue and presents
      information for our three categories of revenue. 

14 

The
      following table sets forth data for total revenue for continuing operations
      by
      geographic origin as a percentage of total revenue for the periods
      indicated: 

The
      table
      below present s information about reported segments for the twelve months ended
      December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 (in thousands): 

A
      reconciliation of segment operating expenses to total operating expense follows
      (numbers are in thousands): 

A
      reconciliation of total segment profitability to net loss for the fiscal years
      ended December 31(in thousands): 

Years
      Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003   

Revenue
      and Gross Margin.   
      The
      Company has three categories of revenue: software products, maintenance, and
      services. Software products revenue is comprised primarily of fees from
      licensing the Company's proprietary  

15 

software
      products. Maintenance revenue is comprised of fees for maintaining, supporting,
      and providing periodic upgrades to the Company's software products. Services
      revenue is comprised of fees for consulting and training services related to
      the
      Company's software products.  

The
      Company's revenues vary from quarter to quarter, due to market conditions,
      the
      budgeting and purchasing cycles of customers and the effectiveness of the
      Company s sales force. The Company does not have any material backlog of
      unfilled software orders and product revenue in any period is substantially
      dependent upon orders received in that quarter. Because the Company's operating
      expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels and are relatively fixed over
      the short term, variations in the timing of the recognition of revenue can
      cause
      significant variations in operating results from period to period. Fluctuations
      in operating results may result in volatility of the price of the Company's
      common stock.  

Total
      revenues increased slightly, or 1% from $775,000 in 2004 to $785,000 in 2005.
      Revenues increased 46% from $530,000 in 2003 to $775,000 in 2004. During 2003,
      2004, and 2005 the Company was unable to secure significant large scale
      contracts but did secure several smaller installations from several different
      companies. Gross profit margin (loss) was (51)%, (658)%, and (925)% for 2005,
      2004, and 2003, respectively.  

The
      Desktop Integration segment had a gross margin (loss) of (56)% for the year
      ended December 31, 2005, (701)% for the year ended December 31, 2004 and a
      gross
      margin (loss) of (1,053)% for the year ended December 31, 2003. At each balance
      sheet date, the Company reassesses the recoverability of the Cicero technology
      in accordance with SFAS 86,  Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be
      Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed    .   
      This
      assessment was completed due to the Company s continued operating losses and the
      limited software revenue generated by the Cicero technology over the prior
      periods. The Company had been in negotiations with numerous customers to
      purchase licenses, which would have a significant impact on the cash flows
      from
      the Cicero technology and the Company. Since the negotiations had been in
      process for several months and expected completion of the transactions had
      been
      delayed, the Company reduced its cash flow projections. Historical cash flows
      generated by the Cicero technology did not support the long-lived asset and
      accordingly the Company impaired the excess of the unamortized book value of
      the
      technology in excess of the expected net realizable value as of June 30, 2004,
      September 30, 2003 and at December 31, 2003. These charges, in the amount of
      $2,844,000, $745,000 and $248,000 respectively, have been recorded as cost
      of
      software revenue.  

The
      Messaging and Application Engineering segment gross margin for the year ended
      December 31, 2005 was 100%, and the gross margin (loss) was (213%) for the
      year
      ended December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the Messaging
      and
      Application Engineering segment had a gross margin 3%. In January 2004 the
      Company acquired substantially all of the assets and certain liabilities of
      Critical Mass Mail, Inc., d/b/a Ensuredmail, a federally certified encryption
      software company. The total purchase price of the assets being acquired plus
      certain liabilities assumed was $750,000. The purchase price was allocated
      to
      the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the Company s estimates of
      fair value at the acquisition date. The Company assessed the net realizable
      value of the Ensuredmail software technology acquired and determined the
      purchase price exceeded the amounts allocated to the software technology
      acquired less liabilities assumed by approximately $587,000. This excess of
      the
      purchase price over the fair values of the assets acquired less liabilities
      assumed was allocated to goodwill, and, because it was deemed impaired, charged
      to the Statement of Operations for the period ended March 31, 2004. The Company
      completed an assessment of the recoverability of the Ensuredmail product
      technology, as of June 30, 2004 in accordance with SFAS 86,  Accounting for the
      Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed . This
      assessment was completed due to the Company s revised cash flow projections from
      software revenue. These revised cash flow projections did not support the
      long-lived asset and accordingly the Company impaired the excess of the
      unamortized book value of the technology in excess of the expected net
      realizable value as of June 30, 2004. This charge, in the amount of $154,000,
      was recorded as software amortization for the period ended June 30,
      2004. 

Software
      Products   .
      Software product revenue increased approximately 70% in 2005 from those results
      achieved in 2004 and increased 134% in 2004 as compared to 2003. The increase
      in
      software revenues in 2005 and 2004 is attributed to the successful deployment
      of
      a few small integration engagements, which were non-existent in 2003.

The
      gross
      margin (loss) on software products was 96%, (1,773)%, and (3,971)% for the
      2005,
      2004 and 2003 years ended, respectively. Cost of software is composed primarily
      of amortization of software product technology, amortization of capitalized
      software costs for internally developed software, impairment of software product
      technology, and royalties to third parties, and to a lesser extent, production
      and distribution costs. All software costs have been fully amortized as of
      December 31, 2004. The Cicero software technology and related patents was
      licensed by Level 8 on a worldwide basis from Merrill Lynch in August of 2000
      under a license agreement containing standard provisions and a two-year
      exclusivity period. On January 3, 2002, the license agreement was

16 

amended
      to extend Level 8 s exclusive worldwide marketing, sales and development rights
      to Cicero in perpetuity (subject to Merrill Lynch s rights to terminate in the
      event of bankruptcy or a change in control of Level 8) and to grant ownership
      rights in the Cicero trademark. Level 8 is indemnified by Merrill Lynch with
      regard to the rights granted to Level 8 by them. It is a condition to
      consummation of the recapitalization merger that the license agreement be
      amended so that the recapitalization merger would not give rise to a right
      of
      Merrill Lynch to terminate the license. Consideration for the original Cicero
      license consisted of 1,000,000 shares of Level 8 common stock. In exchange
      for
      the amendment, Level 8 granted an additional 250,000 shares of common stock
      to
      MLBC, Inc., a Merrill Lynch affiliate and entered into a royalty sharing
      agreement. Under the royalty sharing agreement, Level 8 pays a royalty of 3%
      of
      the sales price for each sale of Cicero software or related maintenance
      services. The royalties over the life of the agreement are not payable in excess
      of $20,000,000.  

The
      software product gross margin (loss) for the Desktop Integration segment was
      96%
      in 2005, (1,950)% in 2004, and (3,971)% in 2003. The software product gross
      margin (loss) on the Messaging and Application Engineering segment was 100%
      for
      2005, (587)% for 2004, and 0 for 2003. 

The
      Company expects to see significant increases in software sales related to the
      Desktop Integration segment coupled with improving margins on software products
      as Cicero gains acceptance in the marketplace. The Company s expectations are
      based on its review of the sales cycle that has developed around the Cicero
      product since being released by the Company, its review of the pipeline of
      prospective customers and their anticipated capital expenditure commitments
      and
      budgeting cycles, as well as the status of in-process proof of concepts or
      beta
      sites with select corporations. The Messaging and Application Engineering
      segment revenue is expected to increase marginally with on-line sales of its
      products. 

Maintenance.
         Maintenance
      revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005       decreased
      by approximately 52% or $159,000 from 2004. The decline in maintenance revenues
      in 2005 as compared to 2004 is primarily due to the non-renewal of one
      maintenance contract for the Cicero product within the Desktop Integration
      segment. Maintenance revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004       decreased
      by approximately 3% or $10,000 from 2003. The decline in maintenance revenues
      in
      2004 as compared to 2003 is the result of one maintenance contract not being
      renewed.  

The
      Desktop Integration segment accounted for approximately 88% of total maintenance
      revenue and the Messaging and Application Engineering segment accounted for
      approximately 12% of total maintenance revenues in 2005. 

Cost
      of
      maintenance is comprised of personnel costs and related overhead and the cost
      of
      third-party contracts for the maintenance and support of the Company s software
      products. The Company experienced a gross margin (loss) on maintenance products
      of (138)% for 2005. Gross margin (loss) on maintenance products for 2004 and
      2003 were (25)% and (18)% respectively. 

Maintenance
      revenues are expected to increase, primarily in the Desktop Integration segment,
      as a result of our expected increase in sales of the Cicero product. The
      Messaging and Application Engineering segment is now composed of the new
      Ensuredmail encryption technology and maintenance revenues should increase
      as
      the product achieves market acceptance. The cost of maintenance should increase
      slightly for the Desktop Integration segment. 

Services.
         Services
      revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 were approximately the same as
      in
      2004. Services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased by
      approximately 105% or $118,000 over the same period in 2003. The increase in
      service revenues as compared to 2003 is attributable to the pilot engagements
      that were incurred during the past two years.  

Cost
      of
      services primarily includes personnel and travel costs related to the delivery
      of services. Services gross margin (loss) was (256)%, (341)%, and (711)% for
      the
      years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 

Services
      revenues are expected to increase for the Desktop Integration segment as the
      Cicero product gains acceptance. The Messaging and Application Engineering
      segment service revenues will continue to be deminimus as the new products
      that
      comprise that segment do not require substantial service oriented work.

Sales
      and Marketing.    Sales
      and
      marketing expenses primarily include personnel costs for salespeople, marketing
      personnel, travel and related overhead, as well as trade show participation
      and
      promotional expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased by 42% or
      approximately $461,000 in 2005 and decreased by 35% or approximately $592,000
      in
      2004 due to a continued reduction in the Company s sales and marketing
      workforce, decreased promotional activities and a change in the sales
      compensation structure. Specifically, the Company changed the compensation
      structure to lower fixed costs and increase variable success-based
      costs.      

17 

Sales
      and
      marketing expenses are expected to increase slightly as the Company adds
      additional direct sales personnel and supports the sales function with
      collateral marketing materials. The Company's emphasis for the sales and
      marketing groups will be the Desktop Integration segment. 

Research
      and Development.    Research
      and development expenses primarily include personnel costs for product authors,
      product developers and product documentation and related overhead. Research
      and
      development expense decreased by 20% or $220,000 in 2005 as compared to 2004.
      The decrease in costs in 2005 reflects the reduction in headcount by two
      employees, plus associated overheads. Research and development expense increased
      by 9% or $94,000 in 2004 as compared to 2003. The increase in research and
      development spending is attributable to an allocation of certain costs primarily
      from general and administrative costs.  

The
      Company intends to continue to make a significant investment in research and
      development while enhancing efficiencies in this area. 

General
      and Administrative.    General
      and administrative expenses consist of personnel costs for the executive, legal,
      financial, human resources, IT and administrative staff, related overhead,
      and
      all non-allocable corporate costs of operating the Company. General and
      administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased by 25%
      or
      $385,000 over the prior year. In fiscal 2004, general and administrative
      expenses decreased by 41% or $1,036,000 as compared to 2003. The sharp decline
      in general and administrative costs in 2005 and 2004 reflects the general
      downsizing conducted by the Company in both years.  

General
      and administrative expenses are expected to slightly increase going forward
      as
      the Company s revenues increase. 

Write-Off
      of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.    Write-off
      of goodwill was $0 for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2003, and $587,000
      for the year ended December 31, 2004. During 2004, the Company acquired
      substantially all of the assets and certain liabilities of Critical Mass Mail,
      Inc., d/b/a Ensuredmail, a federally certified encryption software company.
      The
      total purchase price of the assets being acquired plus certain liabilities
      assumed was $750,000. The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired
      and liabilities assumed based on the Company s estimates of fair value at the
      acquisition date. The Company assessed the net realizable value of the
      Ensuredmail software technology acquired and determined the purchase price
      exceeded the amounts allocated to the software technology acquired less
      liabilities assumed by approximately $587,000. This excess of the purchase
      price
      over the fair values of the assets acquired less liabilities assumed was
      allocated to goodwill, and, because it was deemed impaired, charged to the
      Statement of Operations for the period ended March 31, 2004. At December 31,
      2005, 2004 and 2003, there was no remaining goodwill on the Company s balance
      sheet. 

Restructuring.
         As
      of
      December 31, 2002, the Company s accrual for restructuring was $772,000, which
      was primarily comprised of excess facility costs. As more fully discussed in
      Note 21 Contingencies, in 2003 the Company settled litigation relating to these
      excess facilities. Accordingly, the Company has reversed the restructuring
      balance. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, the Company agreed to
      assign the note receivable from the sale of Geneva to EM Software Solutions,
      Inc., with recourse equal to the unpaid portion of the note receivable should
      the note obligor, EM Software Solutions, Inc., default on future payments.
      The
      current unpaid principal portion of the note receivable assigned is
      approximately $247,000 and matures in December 2007. The Company assessed the
      probability of liability under the recourse provisions using a probability
      weighted cash flow analysis and has recognized a long-term liability in the
      amount of $131,000. 

Warrants
      Liability.    The
      Company has issued warrants to Series A3 and Series B3 preferred stockholders
      which contain provisions that allow the warrant holders to force a cash
      redemption for events outside the control of the Company. The fair value of
      the
      warrants is accounted for as a liability and is re-measured at each balance
      sheet date. As of December 31, 2005, the warrant liability had a fair value
      of
      $0 and the Company had recorded the change in the fair value of the warrant
      liability of $198,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 in the consolidated
      statements of operations. 

Provision
      for Taxes.    The
      Company s effective income tax rate for continuing operations differs from the
      statutory rate primarily because an income tax benefit was not recorded for
      the
      net loss incurred in 2005, 2004 or 2003. Because of the Company s inconsistent
      earnings history, the deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation
      allowance.  

Impact
      of Inflation.    Inflation
      has not had a significant effect on the Company s operating results during the
      periods presented. 

18 

Liquidity
      and Capital Resources   

Operating
      and Investing Activities   

The
      Company utilized cash of $78,000 for the year ended December 31,
      2005. 

Operating
      activities utilized approximately $2,564,000 in cash, which was primarily
      comprised of the loss from operations of $3,681,000, offset by non-cash charges
      for depreciation and amortization of approximately $11,000, and stock
      compensation expense of $149,000. In addition, the Company had a reduction
      in
      accounts receivable of $146,000, as well as a reduction of prepaid expenses
      and
      other assets of $55,000. The Company generated approximately $804,000 in cash
      through an increase in its amount owing its creditors. The Company had a
      decrease of $29,000 in assets and liabilities of discontinued operations, a
      decrease in $12,000 for credit of uncollectible accounts, and a decrease of
      $7,000 in deferred revenue.  

The
      Company utilized approximately $6,000 in cash in the purchase of updating the
      Company s network equipment. 

The
      Company generated approximately $2,487,000 of cash during the year from
      financing activities of the extension to its Note and Warrant offering of
      $944,000 and $1,615,000 of financing from its Convertible bridge notes offset
      by
      repayments of the Company s short-term debt in the amount of $55,000.

By
      comparison, the Company generated cash of $88,000 for the year ended December
      31, 2004. 

Operating
      activities utilized approximately $3,365,000 in cash, which was primarily
      comprised of the loss from operations of $9,761,000, offset by non-cash charges
      for depreciation and amortization of approximately $4,287,000, an impairment
      of
      intangible assets of $587,000, stock compensation expense of $635,000, offset
      by
      a non-cash decrease in the fair value of its warrant liability of $198,000.
      In
      addition, the Company utilized cash through an increase in accounts receivable
      of $143,000 as well as through a reduction of prepaid expenses and other assets
      of $216,000 and generated approximately $884,000 in cash through an increase
      in
      its amount owing its creditors, and an increase in assets and liabilities of
      discontinued operations of $86,000.  

The
      Company generated approximately $3,455,000 of cash during the year from
      financing activities as a result of proceeds from a private placement of common
      stock and warrants in the amount of $1,250,000 and cash proceeds from warrant
      exercises of $112,000. In addition, the Company generated approximately
      $1,483,000 as a result of its Note and Warrant Offering which expired on
      December 31, 2004. In addition, the Company incurred gross borrowings of
      $1,057,000 and repaid $447,000 against those borrowings. 

Financing
      Activities   

The
      Company funded its cash needs during the year ended December 31, 2005 with
      cash
      on hand from December 31, 2004, through the use of proceeds from borrowings
      under convertible debt agreements as well as the proceeds from a Note and
      Warrant Offering.  

The
      Company has a $1,971,000 term loan bearing interest at LIBOR plus 1.5%
      (approximately 5.26% at December 31, 2005), which is payable quarterly. There
      are no financial covenants and the term loan is guaranteed by Liraz Systems,
      Ltd., the Company s former principal shareholder. During 2000, the loan and
      guaranty were amended to extend the due date from May 31, 2001 to November
      30,
      2003 and to provide the Company with additional borrowings. In exchange for
      the
      initial and amended guarantees, the Company issued Liraz a total of 170,000
      shares of the Company s common stock. Based upon fair market value at the time
      of issuance, the Company recorded total deferred costs of $4,013,000 related
      to
      the guaranty. These costs were amortized in the statement of operations as
      a
      component of interest expense over the term of the guaranty. In November 2003,
      the Company and Liraz Systems Ltd. agreed to extend its guaranty on the
      Company s term loan and with Bank Hapoalim, the note holder, to extend the
      maturity date on the loan to November 8, 2004. Under the terms of the agreement
      with Liraz, the Company agreed to issue 300,000 shares of its common stock.
      In
      September 2004, The Company and Liraz Systems Ltd. agreed to extend its guaranty
      on the term loan with Bank Hapoalim, and to extend the maturity date on the
      loan
      to November 3, 2005. Under the terms of the agreement with Liraz, the Company
      agreed to issue 3,942,000 shares of its common stock. In November 2005, The
      Company and Liraz Systems Ltd. agreed to extend its guaranty on the term loan
      with Bank Hapoalim, and to extend the maturity date on the loan to November
      15,
      2006. Under the terms of the agreement with Liraz, the Company agreed to issue
      2,400,000 shares of its common stock and granted a warrant to purchase an
      additional 3,600,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.002
      per share. Based upon fair market value at the time of issuance, the Company
      recognized  

19 

$48,000
      as loan amortization costs in the Statement of Operations for the year ended
      December 31, 2005. Because the warrants are contingently issuable upon an event
      outside the control of the Company (the proposed recapitalization merger see
      Note 13), the Company has not recognized any value to these warrants until
      the
      contingency is removed. 

In
      2004,
      the Company announced a Note and Warrant Offering in which warrant holders
      of
      Level 8 s common stock were offered a one-time conversion of their existing
      warrants at a conversion price of $0.10 per share as part of a recapitalization
      merger plan. Under the terms of the Offer, which expired on December 31, 2004,
      warrant holders who elect to convert, would tender their conversion price in
      cash and receive a Note Payable in exchange. As of December 31, 2004 the company
      had raised $1,615,000. Upon approval of the recapitalization merger at a
      Shareholders meeting, these Notes would convert into common shares of Cicero,
      Inc., the surviving corporation in the merger. In addition, those warrant
      holders who elected to convert the first $1 million of warrants would receive
      additional replacement warrants at a ratio of 2:1 for each warrant converted,
      with a strike price of $0.10 per share. In addition, upon approval of the
      recapitalization merger, each warrant holder would be entitled to additional
      warrants to purchase common stock in Cicero, Inc. In early 2005, the Company
      announced an extension to the Note and Warrant offering and as of December
      31,
      2005, the Company has raised an additional $944,000 for a total of approximately
      $2,559,000. 

From
      July
      through December 2005, the Company entered into several Convertible Bridge
      Notes
      with a consortium of investors. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had raised
      $1,760,000 of Convertible Bridge Notes of which $566,000 was from various
      members of the Company s Board of Directors. Under the terms of these Notes,
      holders will convert their Notes into 62,490,887 shares of Cicero, Inc. common
      stock upon effectiveness of the proposed recapitalization merger. If the merger
      proposal is not approved, the Notes will immediately become due and
      payable. 

The
      Company believes that the recapitalization merger will have a positive impact
      on
      the future operations of the Company and its ability to raise additional capital
      that it will need to continue operations, however, there can be no assurance
      that management will be successful in executing as anticipated or in a timely
      enough manner. If these strategies are unsuccessful, the Company may have to
      pursue other means of financing that may not be on terms favorable to the
      Company or its stockholders. If the Company is unable to increase cash flow
      or
      obtain financing, it may not be able to generate enough capital to fund
      operations for the next twelve months. We do not believe that we currently
      have
      sufficient cash on hand to finance operations for the next twelve months. At
      our
      current rates of expense and assuming revenues for the next twelve months at
      the
      annualized rate of revenue for the year ended 2005, we will be able to fund
      planned operations with existing capital resources for a minimum of four months
      and experience negative cash flow of approximately $1.9 million during the
      next
      twelve months to maintain planned operations. The accompanying financial
      statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates
      the
      realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course
      of business. The financial statements presented herein do not include any
      adjustments relating to the recoverability of assets and classification of
      liabilities that might be necessary should Level 8 be unable to continue as
      a
      going concern. 

In
      April
      2005, the Company borrowed $30,000 from a member of the Company s Board of
      Directors pursuant to a convertible loan agreement. Under the term of this
      agreement, the loan bears interest at 1% per month and is convertible upon
      the
      option of the note holder into 428,571 shares of our common stock at a
      conversion price of $0.07 per share. 

In
      January 2004, the Company completed a common stock financing round wherein
      it
      raised $1,247,000 of capital from several new investors as well as certain
      investors of Critical Mass Mail, Inc. The Company sold 3,369,192 shares of
      common stock at a price of $0.37 per share. As part of the financing, the
      Company has also issued warrants to purchase 3,369,192 shares of the Company s
      common stock at an exercise price of $0.37. The warrants expire three years
      from
      the date of grant.  

On
      March
      19, 2003, the Company completed a $3.5 million private placement of Series
      D
      Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock ( Series D Preferred Stock ), convertible
      at a conversion ratio of $0.32 per share of common stock into an aggregate
      of
      11,031,250 shares of common stock. As part of the financing, the Company has
      also issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 4,158,780 shares of common
      stock at an exercise price of $0.07 per share ( Series D-1 Warrants ). On
      October 10, 2003, the Company, consistent with its obligations, also issued
      warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,665,720 shares of common stock at an
      exercise price the lesser of $0.20 per share or market price at the time of
      exercise ( Series D-2 Warrants ). The Series D-2 Warrants became exercisable on
      November 1, 2003, because the Company failed to report $6 million in gross
      revenues for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2003. Both existing
      and
      new investors participated in the financing. The Company also agreed to register
      the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series D Preferred Stock and
      exercise of the warrants for resale under the Securities Act of 1933, as
      amended. Under the terms of the financing agreement, a redemption

20 

event
      may
      occur if any one person, entity or group shall control more than 35% of the
      voting power of the Company s capital stock. The Company allocated the proceeds
      received from the sale of the Series D Preferred Stock and warrants to the
      preferred stock and detachable warrants on a relative fair value basis,
      resulting in the allocation of $2,890,000 to the Series D Preferred Stock and
      $640,000 to the detachable warrants. Based upon the allocation of the proceeds,
      the Company determined that the effective conversion price of the Series D
      Preferred Stock was less than the fair value of the Company s common stock on
      the date of issuance. The beneficial conversion feature was recorded as a
      discount on the value of the Series D Preferred Stock and an increase in
      additional paid-in capital. Because the Series D Preferred Stock was convertible
      immediately upon issuance, the Company fully amortized such beneficial
      conversion feature on the date of issuance. 

As
      part
      of the financing, the Company and the lead investors agreed to form a joint
      venture to exploit the Cicero technology in the Asian market. The terms of
      the
      agreement required that the Company deposit $1 million of the gross proceeds
      from the financing into escrow to fund the joint venture. The escrow agreement
      allowed for the immediate release of funds to cover organizational costs of
      the
      joint venture. During the quarter ended March 31, 2003, $225,000 of escrowed
      funds was released. Since the joint venture was not formed and operational
      on or
      by July 17, 2003, the lead investors had the right, but not the obligation,
      to
      require the Company to purchase $1 million in liquidation value of the Series
      D
      Preferred Stock at a 5% per annum premium, less their pro-rata share of
      expenses. On October 21, 2004, the Company received notification from the lead
      investors of their intent to redeem the escrow balance and surrender the
      equivalent amount of Series D preferred shares. This redemption was completed
      in
      November 2004.  

Another
      condition of the financing required the Company to place an additional $1
      million of the gross proceeds into escrow, pending the execution of a definitive
      agreement with Merrill Lynch providing for the sale of all right, title and
      interest to the Cicero technology. Since a transaction with Merrill Lynch for
      the sale of Cicero was not consummated by May 18, 2003, the lead investors
      had
      the right, but not the obligation, to require the Company to purchase $1 million
      in liquidation value of the Series D Preferred Stock at a 5% per annum premium.
      In addition, the Company and the lead investor agreed to extend the escrow
      release provisions until the end of July 2003 when all remaining escrow monies
      were released to the Company.  

In
      connection with the sale of Series D Preferred Stock, the holders of the
      Company s Series A3 Preferred Stock and Series B3 Preferred Stock (collectively,
      the  Existing Preferred Stockholders ), entered into an agreement whereby the
      Existing Preferred Stockholders have agreed to waive certain applicable price
      protection anti-dilution provisions. Under the terms of the waiver agreement,
      the Company is also permitted to issue equity securities representing aggregate
      proceeds of up to an additional $4.9 million following the sale of the Series
      D
      Preferred Stock. Additionally, the Existing Preferred Stockholders have also
      agreed to a limited lock-up restricting their ability to sell common stock
      issuable upon conversion of their preferred stock and warrants and to waive
      the
      accrual of any dividends that may otherwise be payable as a result of the
      Company s delisting from Nasdaq. As consideration for the waiver agreement, the
      Company has agreed to issue on a pro rata basis up to 1,000,000 warrants to
      all
      the Existing Preferred Stockholders on a pro rata basis at such time and from
      time to time as the Company closes financing transactions that represent
      proceeds in excess of $2.9 million, excluding the proceeds from the Series
      D
      Preferred Stock transaction and any investments made by a strategic investor
      in
      the software business. Such warrants will have an exercise price that is the
      greater of $0.40 or the same exercise price as the exercise price of the
      warrant, or equity security, that the Company issues in connection with the
      Company s financing or loan transaction that exceeds the $2.9 million
      threshold. 

In
      October 2003, the Company completed a common stock financing round wherein
      it
      raised $853,000 of capital. The offering closed on October 15, 2003. The Company
      sold 1,894,444 shares of common stock at a price of $0.45 per share for a total
      of $853,000 in proceeds and issued warrants to purchase 473,611 shares of the
      Company s common stock at an exercise price of $0.45. The warrants expire three
      years from the date of grant. As part of an agreement with Liraz Systems Ltd,
      the guarantor of the Company s term loan, the Company used $200,000 of the
      proceeds to reduce the principal outstanding on the term loan to
      $1,971,000. 

The
      Company incurred loss of approximately $3,681,000 for the year ended December
      31, 2005 in addition to losses from continuing operations of approximately
      $19,605,000 for the previous two fiscal years. The Company has experienced
      negative cash flows from operations for the past three years. At December 31,
      2005, the Company had a working capital deficiency of approximately $13,894,000.
      The Company s future revenues are entirely dependent on acceptance of Cicero,
      which has limited success in commercial markets to date. Accordingly, there
      is
      substantial doubt that the Company can continue as a going concern and the
      independent auditor s report accompanying our financial statements raises doubts
      about our ability to continue as a going concern.. In order to address these
      issues and to obtain adequate financing for the Company s operations for the
      next twelve months, the Company is actively promoting and expanding its product
      line and continues to negotiate with significant customers  who
      have
      demonstrated interest in the Cicero software technology .  The
      Company is experiencing difficulty increasing sales revenue largely because
      of
      the unique nature of the product as well as customer concerns about

21 

the
      financial viability of the Company. Cicero software is a new  category defining 
product in that most Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) projects are
      performed at the server level and Cicero s integration occurs at the desktop
      level without the need to open and modify the underlying code for those
      applications being integrated. Many companies are not aware of this new
      technology or tend to look toward more traditional and accepted approaches.
      The
      Company is attempting to solve the former problem by improving the market s
      knowledge and understanding of Cicero software through increased marketing
      and
      leveraging our limited number of reference accounts, while enhancing our list
      of
      resellers and systems integrators to assist in the sales and marketing process.
      Additionally, we must seek additional equity capital or other strategic
      transactions in the near term to provide additional liquidity.  

Contractual
      Obligations   

Future
      minimum payments for all contractual obligations for years subsequent to
      December 31, 2005 are as follows (in thousands): 

Short
      and
      long-term debt, including interest payments includes approximately $992,000
      of
      convertible notes and $2,559,000 of short term debt related to the Note and
      Warrant Offering and $1,760,000 of Convertible Bridge Notes. Upon approval
      of
      the recapitalization merger, these amounts will convert into equity in the
      surviving company. 

Under
      the
      employment agreement between the Company and Mr. Pizi effective January 1,
      2005,
      the Company is to pay Mr. Pizi an annual base salary of $200,000, and a
      performance bonus in cash of up to $400,000 per annum based upon certain revenue
      goals, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
      of
      the Company, in its discretion. In August 2005, Mr. Pizi voluntarily reduced
      his
      annual salary to $150,000 for the year. Upon termination of Mr. Pizi's
      employment by the Company without cause, the Company has agreed to pay Mr.
      Pizi
      (a) a lump sum payment of one year of Mr. Pizi's then base salary within thirty
      (30) days of termination, (b) all then outstanding but unvested stock options
      shall vest one hundred percent (100%), and (c) two hundred thousand (200,000)
      shares of the Company's common stock. 

Under
      the
      employment agreement between the Company and Mr. Broderick effective January
      1,
      2005, the Company pays Mr. Broderick a base salary of $200,000 and a performance
      bonus of cash up to 50% of Mr. Broderick s base salary. In August 2005, Mr.
      Broderick voluntarily reduced his annual salary to $150,000 for the year. Upon
      termination of Mr. Broderick's employment by the Company without cause, the
      Company has agreed to provide Mr. Broderick with salary continuation of six
      months of Mr. Broderick's then base salary beginning on the first payday after
      the date of termination. 

Off
      Balance Sheet Arrangements   

The
      Company does not have any off balance sheet arrangements. We have no
      subsidiaries or other unconsolidated limited purpose entities, and we have
      not
      guaranteed or otherwise supported the obligations of any other entity.

Significant
      Accounting Policies and Estimates   

The
      policies discussed below are considered by us to be critical to an understanding
      of our financial statements because they require us to apply the most judgment
      and make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Specific
      risks for these critical accounting policies are described in the following
      paragraphs. With respect to the policies discussed below, we note that because
      of the uncertainties inherent in forecasting, the estimates frequently require
      adjustment. 

Our
      financial statements and related disclosures, which are prepared to conform
      to
      accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America,
      require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
      of
      assets, liabilities, revenues and accounts receivable and expenses during the
      period reported.  

22 

We
      are
      also required to disclose amounts of contingent assets and liabilities at the
      date of the financial statements. Our actual results in future periods could
      differ from those estimates. Estimates and assumptions are reviewed
      periodically, and the effects of revisions are reflected in the Consolidated
      Financial Statements in the period they are determined to be
      necessary. 

We
      consider the most significant accounting policies and estimates in our financial
      statements to be those surrounding: (1) revenue recognition; (2) allowance
      for
      doubtful trade accounts receivable; and (3) valuation of deferred tax assets.
      These accounting policies, the basis for any estimates and potential impact
      to
      our Consolidated Financial Statements, should any of the estimates change,
      are
      further described as follows: 

Revenue
      Recognition.    Our
      revenues are derived principally from three sources: (i) license fees for the
      use of our software products; (ii) fees for consulting services and training;
      and (iii) fees for maintenance and technical support. We generally recognize
      revenue from software license fees when a license agreement has been signed
      by
      both parties, the fee is fixed or determinable, collection of the fee is
      probable, delivery of our products has occurred and no other significant
      obligations remain. For multiple-element arrangements, we apply the  residual
      method . According to the residual method, revenue allocated to the undelivered
      elements is allocated based on vendor specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) of
      fair value of those elements. VSOE is determined by reference to the price
      the
      customer would be required to pay when the element is sold separately. Revenue
      applicable to the delivered elements is deemed equal to the remainder of the
      contract price. The revenue recognition rules pertaining to software
      arrangements are complicated and certain assumptions are made in determining
      whether the fee is fixed and determinable and whether collect ability is
      probable. For instance, in our license arrangements with resellers, estimates
      are made regarding the reseller s ability and intent to pay the license fee. Our
      estimates may prove incorrect if, for instance, subsequent sales by the reseller
      do not materialize. Should our actual experience with respect to collections
      differ from our initial assessment, there could be adjustments to future
      results. 

Revenues
      from services include fees for consulting services and training. Revenues from
      services are recognized on either a time and materials or percentage of
      completion basis as the services are performed and amounts due from customers
      are deemed collectible and non-refundable. Revenues from fixed price service
      agreements are recognized on a percentage of completion basis in direct
      proportion to the services provided. To the extent the actual time to complete
      such services varies from the estimates made at any reporting date, our revenue
      and the related gross margins may be impacted in the following
      period. 

Allowance
      for Doubtful
      Trade Accounts Receivable   .
      In
      addition to assessing the probability of collection in conjunction with revenue
      arrangements, we continually assess the collectability of outstanding invoices.
      Assumptions are made regarding the customer s ability and intent to pay and are
      based on historical trends, general economic conditions, and current customer
      data. Should our actual experience with respect to collections differ from
      our
      initial assessment, there could be adjustments to bad debt expense. 

Capitalization
      and
      Valuation of Software Product Technology.   
      Our
      policy on capitalized software costs determines the timing of our recognition
      of
      certain development costs. In addition, this policy determines whether the
      cost
      is classified as development expense or cost of software revenue. Management
      is
      required to use professional judgment in determining whether development costs
      meet the criteria for immediate expense or capitalization. Additionally, we
      review software product technology assets for net realizable value at each
      balance sheet date. Should we experience reductions in revenues because our
      business or market conditions vary from our current expectations, we may not
      be
      able to realize the carrying value of these assets and will record a write
      down
      at that time. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a
      write
      down of software product technology totaling $3,585,000 and as of December
      31,
      2005 the Company had $0 in capitalized software product technology.

Valuation
      of Deferred Tax Assets.   
      Income
      taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax
      assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences
      attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts
      of
      existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating
      loss and tax credit carry forwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities
      are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in
      the
      years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or
      settled. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities of a change
      in
      tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment
      date. A valuation allowance is established to the extent that it is more likely
      than not, that we will be unable to utilize deferred income tax assets in the
      future. At December 31, 2005, we had a valuation allowance of $96,454,000
      against $96,454,000 of gross deferred tax assets. We considered all of the
      available evidence to arrive at our position on the net deferred tax asset;
      however, should circumstances change and alter our judgment in this regard,
      it
      may have an impact on future operating results. 

23 

At
      December 31, 2005, the Company has net operating loss carryforwards of
      approximately $230,926,000, which may be applied against future taxable income.
      These carryforwards will expire at various times between 2006 and 2025. A
      substantial portion of these carryforwards is restricted to future taxable
      income of certain of the Company s subsidiaries or limited by Internal Revenue
      Code Section 382. Thus, the utilization of these carryforwards cannot be
      assured. 

Restructuring
      Reserves.   
      At
      December 31, 2002, the Company s restructuring liabilities totaled $772,000
      which represented estimated excess facilities costs. In August 2003, the Company
      settled litigation relating to these excess facilities. Accordingly, the Company
      has reversed the restructuring balance. Under the terms of the settlement
      agreement, the Company agreed to assign the note receivable from the sale of
      Geneva to EM Software Solutions, Inc., with recourse equal to the unpaid portion
      of the note receivable should the note obligor, EM Software Solutions, Inc.,
      default on future payments. The current unpaid principal portion of the note
      receivable at assignment is approximately $247,000 and matures December 2007.
      The Company assessed the probability of liability under the recourse provisions
      using a probability weighted cash flow analysis and has recognized a long-term
      liability in the amount of $131,000. 

Recent
      Accounting Pronouncements:  

In
      December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based
      Payment, (SFAS 123R).  SFAS 123R addresses the accounting for share-based
      payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options.  Under
      the new standard, companies will no longer be able to account for share-based
      compensation transactions using the intrinsic method in accordance with APB
      Opinion No. 25,  Accounting For Stock Issued To Employees .  Instead,
      companies will be required to account for such transactions using a fair-value
      method and recognize the expense in the consolidated statement of income. 
SFAS 123R will be effective for periods beginning after June 15, 2005 and
      allows, but does not require, companies to restate the full fiscal year of
      2005
      to reflect the impact of expensing share-based payments under SFAS 123R. 
The Company has not yet determined which fair-value method and transitional
      provision it will follow.  However, the Company expects that the adoption
      of SFAS 123R will have a significant impact on its results of operations. 
The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS 123R will impact its overall
      financial position.  See Stock-Based Compensation in Note 1 for the pro
      forma impact on net income and net income per share from calculating stock-based
      compensation costs under the fair value alternative of SFAS 123.  However,
      the calculation of compensation cost for share-based payment transactions after
      the effective date of SFAS 123R may be different from the calculation of
      compensation cost under SFAS 123, but such differences have not yet been
      quantified. 

In
      January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 or FIN 46  Consolidation of
      Variable Interest Entities , an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin
      No. 51,  Consolidated Financial Statements .   In
      October 2003, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position FIN 46-6,  Effective Date of
      FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities 
deferring the effective date for applying the provisions of FIN 46 for public
      entities  interests in variable interest   entities  
      or
      potential variable interest entities created before February 1, 2003 for
      financial statements of interim or annual periods that end after December 15,
      2003.       FIN
      46
      establishes accounting guidance for consolidation of variable interest entities
      that function to support the activities of the primary beneficiary.   In
      December 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46 (revised December 2003),  Consolidation of
      Variable Interest Entities.  This revised interpretation is effective for all
      entities no later than the end of the first reporting period that ends after
      March 15, 2004.   The
      Company has no investment in or contractual relationship or other business
      relationship with a variable interest entity and therefore the adoption of
      this
      interpretation did not have any impact on its consolidated financial position
      or
      results of operations. However, if the Company enters into any such arrangement
      with a variable interest entity in the future or an entity with which we have
      a
      relationship is reconsidered based on guidance in FIN 46 to be a variable
      interest entity, the Company s consolidated financial position or results of
      operations might be materially impacted. 

In
      May
      2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150,  Accounting for Certain Financial
      Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity . SFAS No. 150
      establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain
      financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity.
      It
      requires that an issuer classify a financial instrument that is within its
      scope
      as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). Many of those instruments
      were previously classified as equity. Some of the provisions of this Statement
      are consistent with the current definition of liabilities in FASB Concepts
      Statement No. 6,  Elements of Financial Statements . The adoption of this
      statement did not have a material impact on the Company s results of operations
      and financial       condition.

24 

Item
      7a.       Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

As
      the
      Company has sold most of its European based business and has closed several
      European sales offices, the majority of revenues are generated from US sources.
      The Company expects that trend to continue for the next year. As such, there
      is
      minimal foreign currency risk at present. Should the Company continue to develop
      a reseller presence in Europe and Asia, that risk will be increased.

Item
      8.       Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data  

The
      information required by this item appears beginning on page F-1 of this report.

Item
      9.       Changes
      in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure  

During
      the two most recent fiscal years there were no changes in or disagreements
      with
      the Company s independent public accountants.  

Item
      9A.        Controls
      and Procedures   

The
      Company, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company s
      management, including the Company s Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief
      Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation of
      the
      effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s disclosure controls
      and procedures (the  Evaluation ) as of the end of the period covered by this
      Report. Based upon the Evaluation, the Company s Chief Executive Officer,
      President and Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
      that
      the Company s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that
      information required to be disclosed in our periodic reports filed with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission is recorded, processed, summarized and
      reported as and when required. In addition, they concluded that there were
      no
      significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal controls which could significantly affect the Company s ability to
      record, process, summarize and report financial information. It should be noted
      that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide
      only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system
      will be met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part
      upon
      certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these
      and
      other inherent limitations of control systems, there is only reasonable
      assurance that the Company s controls will succeed in achieving their stated
      goals under all potential future conditions.  

In
      addition, the management of the Company, with the participation of the Company's
      Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated whether
      any change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (as
      defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) occurred
      during the Company's fourth fiscal quarter. Based on that evaluation, the
      Company's Chief Executive Officer and Acting Chief Financial 

      Officer
      have concluded that there has been no change in the Company's internal control
      over financial reporting during the fourth fiscal quarter that has materially
      affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal
      control over financial reporting. 

Item
      9B.        Other
      Information  

The
      following disclosure has been filed on Form 8-K under the heading  Item 5.02.
      Departure of Directors or Principal Officers, Election of Directors, Appointment
      of Principal Officers. 

On
      March
      10, 2005, Level 8 Systems reported the election of Mr. Ralph Martino as Chairman
      of the Board of Directors replacing Mr. Anthony Pizi who remains as a
      director. 

On
      June
      3, 2005, the Company reported the resignation of Mr. Ralph Martino as Chairman
      of the Board of Directors. 

On
      June
      6, 2005 the Company reported the election of Mr. Charles B. Porciello to the
      Board of Directors. 

On
      July
      27, 2005, the Company reported the resignations of Nicholas Hatalski and Kenneth
      Nielsen as members of the Board of Directors and the appointments of Mark
      Landis, Bruce Miller, Fredric Mack and John Broderick as members to the
      Company s Board of Directors. 

25 

On
      January 10, 2006, Mr. Bruce Percelay was elected by the Board of Directors
      to
      serve as a member of the Board of Directors of Level 8 Systems,
      Inc. 

On
      March
      9, 2006, the Company reported the resignation of Mr. Fredric Mack from the
      Board
      of Directors. 

26 

PART
      III  

Item
      10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant  

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company consisted Mark Landis,
      Fredric Mack, Bruce Miller, John Broderick, Charles B. Porciello, Anthony Pizi,
      Bruce Hasenyager and Jay Kingley. On January 10, 2006 Bruce Percelay was elected
      to the Board of Directors by vote of existing Directors. Messrs. Pizi, Kingley,
      and Hasenyager were elected at the 2003 Special Meeting of Stockholders and
      Messrs. Landis, Mack, Miller, Broderick, and Porciello were elected by unanimous
      vote of the board of directors, to serve until the election and qualification
      of
      their successors or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. On March
      7, 2005 the board of directors elected by unanimous vote Mr. Ralph Martino
      to
      serve on the board until the next special meeting of stockholders. On May 31,
      2005, Mr. Martino resigned from the board. Mr. Nicholas Hatalski and Mr. Kenneth
      Nielsen resigned from the board in July 2005. On March 7, 2006 Mr. Fredric
      Mack
      resigned from the Board of Directors. Messrs. Martino s, Hatalski s, Nielsen s,
      and Mack s resignations were not the result of a disagreement with Level 8 or
      its management.  

Set
      forth
      below with respect to each director is his name, age, principal occupation
      and
      business experience for the past five years and length of service as a director
      of the Company.  

Mark
      Landis   

      Director
      since July 2005. Age: 64 

Mr.
      Mark
      Landis is the Senior Managing Member of the Security Growth Fund, a newly
      established private equity firm focused on the electronic security industry.
      Prior to joining the Security Growth Fund and since 2003, Mr. Landis was the
      Executive in Residence of The Jordan Company, a private equity firm based in
      New
      York. Mr. Landis retired from being President of the North American Security
      Division of Siemens Building Technologies, Inc. in July of 2003, having spent
      16
      years with the company.  

Anthony
      C. Pizi  

      Director
      since August 2000. Age: 46 

Mr.
      Pizi
      has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors from December 1, 2000 until
      March 7, 2005 and from June 1, 2005 until July 22, 2005. Mr. Pizi currently
      is
      Chief Information Officer. He served as Chief Executive Officer and Chief
      Technology Officer from February 1, 2001 to July 22, 2005. Mr. Pizi has been
      a
      director since August 2000. Until December 2000, he was First Vice President
      and
      Chief Technology Officer of Merrill Lynch s Private Client Technology
      Architecture and Service Quality Group. Mr. Pizi s 16 years with Merrill Lynch
      included assignments in Corporate MIS, Investment Banking and Private Client.
      Mr. Pizi earned his B.S. in Engineering from West Virginia University.

Bruce
      W. Hasenyager   

      Director
      since October 2002. Age: 63 

Mr.
      Hasenyager has been a director of Level 8 since October 2002. Since November
      2004, Mr. Hasenyager has served as Principal of Bergen   Webster Executive
      Communications. Prior to that, he served as Director of Business and Technology
      Development at the Hart eCenter at Southern Methodist University (SMU) and
      Chief
      Operating Officer of the Guildhall at SMU. From April 1996 to April 2002, Mr.
      Hasenyager was a founder and served as Senior Vice President of Technology
      and
      Operations and Chief Technology Officer at MobilStar Network Corporation. Prior
      to April 1996, Mr. Hasenyager held executive and senior management positions
      in
      information technology at Chemical Bank, Merrill Lynch, Kidder Peabody, and
      Citibank. 

Jay
      R. Kingley   

      Director
      since November 2002. Age: 44 

Mr.
      Kingley has been a director of Level 8 since November 2002. Mr. Kingley is
      currently the Chief Executive Officer of Kingley Institute LLC, a medical
      wellness company. Prior to that, Mr. Kingley has served as CEO of Warren
      Partners, LLC, a software development and consultancy company. Mr. Kingley
      was
      Managing Director of a business development function of Zurich Financial
      Services Group from 1999-2001. Prior to joining Zurich Financial Services Group,
      Mr. Kingley was Vice President of Diamond Technology Partners, Inc., a
      management-consulting firm. 

27 

Charles
      B. Porciello   

      Director
      since June 2005. Age: 70 

Mr.
        Porciello has been a director since June 6, 2005.  
        Mr.
        Porciello graduated from the U.S. Military Academy with a B.S. in Engineering
        and received his Masters Degree in Management from the University of Nebraska.
        Mr. Porciello is the Chief Executive Officer of Pilar Services, Inc. Prior
        to
        that, Mr. Porciello served as Chief Operating Officer for Enterprise Integration
        Corporation until 2003. Mr. Porciello was Vice President of Capstone Corporation
        from 1998 to 2000. Mr. Porciello retired from the U.S. Air Force in 1982
        after
        serving his country for twenty five years.  

Bruce
      Miller   

      Director
      since July 2005. Age: 55 

Mr.
      Bruce
      Miller is a General Partner of Delphi Partners, Ltd. a privately-owned
      investment partnership since 1989. He is a director of American Season
      Corporation. Mr. Miller has served as a consultant for various entities
      including a long-standing association with Cape Air/Nantucket Airlines, Inc.
      Mr.
      Miller sits on the board of the Nantucket Historical Association and is involved
      in other non-profit activities. Mr. Miller received his B.S. in Finance from
      Lehigh University and subsequently earned an M.B.A. from Lehigh. 

Bruce
      A. Percelay   

      Director
      since January 2006. Age: 50  

Mr.
      Percelay has been a director since January 10, 2006.  
      Mr.
      Percelay is the Founder and Chairman of the Mount Vernon Company, a real estate
      investment company specializing in the acquisition and renovation of
      multi-family and commercial properties in Greater Boston Communities. Since
      2000
      Mr. Percelay has been President of the Board of Habitat for Humanity in Greater
      Boston. Mr. Percelay is currently Chairman of the Board of Make-A-Wish
      Foundation of Greater Boston and Eastern Massachusetts. Since 2002 Mr. Percelay
      has been a Board Member of the Nantucket Historic Association. Mr. Percelay
      received his B.S. from Boston University School of Management, and a BA in
      Business and Economics from City of London Polytechnic, Special Studies in
      Economics. 

John
      P. Broderick         

      Director
      since July 2005. Age: 56 

Mr.
      Broderick is currently the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
      of Level 8. Mr. Broderick has served as the Chief Operating Officer of Level
      8
      since June 2002, as the Chief Financial Officer of Level 8 since April 2001,
      and
      as Corporate Secretary since August 2001. Prior to joining our Company, Mr.
      Broderick was Executive Vice President of Swell Inc., a sports media e-commerce
      company where he oversaw the development of all commerce operations and served
      as the organization's interim Chief Financial Officer. Previously, Mr. Broderick
      served as chief financial officer for Programmer's Paradise, a publicly held
      (NASDAQ: PROG) international software marketer. Mr. Broderick received his
      B.S.
      in accounting from Villanova University. 

Compensation
      Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  

The
      Compensation Committee for 2005 was comprised of Messrs. Kingley and Porciello.
      Messrs. Neilsen and Hatalski served on the Committee until their resignation
      from the Board in July 2005. None of the current members of the Compensation
      Committee has served as an executive officer of the Company, and no executive
      officer of the Company has served as a member of the Compensation Committee
      of
      any other entity of which Messrs. Kingley and Porciello have served as executive
      officers. Mr. Porciello is the Chief Executive Office of Pilar Services Inc.,
      a
      reseller partner of the Company. The Company has not recognized any revenues
      with Pilar to date. There were no interlocking relationships between the
  Company
      and other entities that might affect the determination of the compensation
      of
      the directors and executive officers of the Company. 

Director
      Compensation  

In
      May
      1999, stockholders of the Company approved the Outside Director Stock Incentive
      Plan of the Company. Under this plan, the outside directors may be granted
      an
      option to purchase 12,000 shares of common stock at a price equal to the fair
      market value of the common stock as of the grant date. In January 2002, the
      board of directors approved an amendment to the Outside Director Stock Incentive
      Plan to provide an increase in the number of options to be granted to outside
      directors to 24,000. These options vest over a three-year period in equal
      increments upon the eligible director s election to the Board, with the initial
      increment vesting on the date of grant. The Outside Director Stock Incentive
      Plan also permits eligible directors to receive partial payment of director
      fees

28 

in
      common
      stock in lieu of cash, subject to approval by the board of directors. In
      addition, the plan permits the board of directors to grant discretionary awards
      to eligible directors under the plan.   None
      of
      the Company s directors received additional monetary compensation for serving on
      the board of directors of the Company in 2001, other than reimbursement of
      reasonable expenses incurred in attending meetings. 

In
      October 2002, the board of directors approved an amendment to the stock
      incentive plan for all non-management directors. Under the amendment, each
      non-management director will receive 100,000 options to purchase common stock
      of
      the Company at the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant.
      These shares will vest in three equal increments with the initial increment
      vesting on the date of grant. The option grant contains an acceleration of
      vesting provision should the Company incur a change in control. A change in
      control is defined as a merger or consolidation of the Company with or into
      another unaffiliated entity, or the merger of an unaffiliated entity into the
      Company or another subsidiary thereof with the effect that immediately after
      such transaction the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to the
      transaction hold less than fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power of
      all
      securities generally entitled to vote in the election of directors, managers
      or
      trustees of the entity surviving such merger or consolidation. Under the
      amendment, there will be no additional compensation awarded for committee
      participation. The shares allocated to the board of directors are being issued
      out of the Level 8 Systems, Inc. 1997 Employee Stock Plan. 

Executive
      Officers  

The
      Company s current executive officers are listed below, together with their age,
      position with the Company and business experience for the past five
      years. 

Anthony
      C. Pizi.    Age:
      46 

Mr.
      Pizi
      currently serves as the Chief Information Officer of Level 8. He served as
      the
      Chief Executive Officer and Chief Technology Officer of Level 8 from February
      1,
      2001 until July 22, 2005. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Pizi  
      was
      First Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of Merrill Lynch s Private
      Client Technology Architecture and Service Quality Group. Mr. Pizi s 16 years
      with Merrill Lynch included assignments in Corporate MIS, Investment Banking
      and
      Private Client. Mr. Pizi earned his B.S. in Engineering from West Virginia
      University.  

John
      P. Broderick.    Age:
      56 

Mr.
      Broderick serves as the Chief Executive Officer since July 22, 2005 and as
      the
      Chief Financial Officer of Level 8 since April 2001. He has served as the Chief
      Operating Officer of Level 8 since June 2002 and as Corporate Secretary since
      August 2001. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Broderick was Executive Vice
      President of Swell Inc., a sports media e-commerce company where he oversaw
      the
      development of all commerce operations and served as the organization's interim
      Chief Financial Officer. Previously, Mr. Broderick served as chief financial
      officer for Programmer's Paradise, a publicly held (NASDAQ: PROG) international
      software marketer. Mr. Broderick received his B.S. in accounting from Villanova
      University. 

Audit
      Committee  

The
      Board
      of Directors has determined that the members of the Audit Committee are
      independent as defined in Rule 4200(a)(15) of the National Association of
      Securities Dealers  listing standards. Mr. Frank Artale was designated the
 audit committee financial expert  as defined in Item 401(h) of Regulation S-K.
      Following the resignation of Mr. Artale in January 2004, the Company has not
      appointed a replacement  audit committee financial expert  and continues to look
      for a candidate to fill this role on the board or directors and the Audit
      Committee. 

Code
      of Ethics and Conduct  

Our
      Board
      of Directors has adopted a code of ethics and a code of conduct that applies
      to
      all of our directors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and
      employees. We will provide copies of our code of conduct and code of ethics
      without charge upon request. To obtain a copy of the code of ethics or code
      of
      conduct, please send your written request to Level 8 Systems, Suite 542, 8000
      Regency Pkwy, Cary, North Carolina 27511,  
      Attn:
      Corporate Secretary. The code of ethics is also available on the Company s
      website at    www.level   8.com.

C    ompliance         with
          S    ection    
      16(    a)
      of the     E    xchange    
      A    ct  

Section
      16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, requires the Company s
      officers, directors and persons who own more than ten percent of the Company s
      Common Stock (collectively,  Reporting Persons )  

29 

to
      file
      reports of ownership and changes in ownership with the SEC and Nasdaq. Reporting
      Persons are required by SEC regulations to furnish the Company with copies
      of
      all Section 16(a) reports they file. Based solely on its review of the copies
      of
      such reports received by it and written representations all Section 16(a)
      reports were filed in a timely manner.  

Item
      11. Executive Compensation.  

The
      following summary compensation table sets forth the compensation earned by
      all
      persons serving as the Company s executive officers during fiscal year
      2005,       serving
      or having served at the end of fiscal 2004 whose salary and bonus exceeded
      $100,000 for services rendered to the Company during the fiscal year 2005.
      The
      table reflects compensation earned for each of the last three years or for
      such
      shorter period of service as an executive officer as is reflected below. For
      the
      principal terms of the options granted during fiscal 2005, see  Option Grants in
      Fiscal 2005.  

Summary
      Compensation Table  

30 

The
      Company did not award any grants of stock options to the Named Executives during
      fiscal 2005. The Company did not award any stock appreciation rights ( SARs )
      during fiscal 2005. 

The
      following table sets forth information concerning the options exercised during
      fiscal 2005 and held at December 31, 2005 by the Named Executives.  

Fiscal
      2005 Year-End Option Holdings and Values  

Employment
      Agreements, Termination of Employment and Change-In-Control
      Arrangements  

Under
      the
      employment agreement between the Company and Mr. Pizi effective January 1,
      2005,
      the Company is to pay Mr. Pizi an annual base salary of $200,000 and a
      performance bonus in cash of up to $400,000 per annum based upon certain revenue
      goals, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
      of
      the Company, in its discretion. Upon termination of Mr. Pizi s employment by the
      Company without cause, the Company has agreed to pay Mr. Pizi (a) a lump sum
      payment of one year of Mr. Pizi s then base salary within thirty (30) days of
      termination and (b) two hundred thousand (200,000) shares of the Company s
      common stock. In the event there occurs a substantial change in Mr. Pizi s job
      duties, there is a decrease in or failure to provide the compensation or vested
      benefits under the employment agreement or there is a change in control of
      the
      Company, the Company has agreed to grant Mr. Pizi five hundred thousand
      (500,000) shares of the Company s common stock. If Mr. Pizi s employment is
      terminated for any reason, Mr. Pizi has agreed that, for one (1) year after
      such
      termination, he will not directly or indirectly solicit or divert business
      from
      the Company or assist any business in attempting to do so or solicit or hire
      any
      person who was an employee of the Company during the term of his employment
      agreement or assist any business in attempting to do so.  

Under
      the
      employment agreement between the Company and Mr. Broderick effective January
      1,
      2005, the Company pays Mr. Broderick a base salary of $200,000 and a performance
      bonus of cash up to $100,000 per annum based upon certain revenue goals, as
      determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the
      Company, in its discretion. Upon termination of Mr. Broderick s employment by
      the Company without cause, the Company has agreed to provide Mr. Broderick
      with
      salary continuation of six months of Mr. Broderick s then base salary beginning
      on the first payday after the date of termination. In the event there occurs
      a
      substantial change in Mr. Broderick s job duties, there is a decrease in or
      failure to provide the compensation or vested benefits under the employment
      agreement or there is a change in control of the Company, the Company has agreed
      to pay Mr. Broderick (a) a lump sum payment of one year of Mr. Broderick s then
      base salary within thirty (30) days of termination and (b) two hundred fifty
      thousand (250,000) shares of the Company s common stock and immediately vest all
      unvested stock options held by Mr. Broderick. Mr. Broderick will have thirty
      (30) days from the date written notice is given about either a change in his
      duties or the announcement and closing of a transaction resulting in a change
      in
      control of the Company to resign and execute his rights under this agreement.
      If
      Mr. Broderick s employment is terminated for any reason, Mr. Broderick has
      agreed that, for one (1) year after such termination, he will not directly
      or
      indirectly solicit or divert business from the Company or assist any business
      in
      attempting to do so or solicit or hire any person who was an employee of the
      Company during the term of his employment agreement or assist any business
      in
      attempting to do so.  

31 

Item
      12.        Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.  

The
        following  
      table
      sets forth information as of December 31, 2005 with respect to beneficial
      ownership of shares by (i) each person known to the Company to be the
      beneficial owner of more than 5% of the outstanding common stock, (ii) each
      of the Company s directors, (iii) the executive officers of the Company
      named in the Summary Compensation Table (the  Named Executives ) and
      (iv) all current directors and executive officers of the Company as a
      group. Unless otherwise indicated, the address for each person listed is c/o
      Level 8 Systems, Inc., 1433 State Highway 34, Farmingdale, New Jersey 07727.

The
      named
      person has furnished stock ownership information to the Company. Beneficial
      ownership as reported in this section was determined in accordance with
      Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and includes shares as to which
      a
      person possesses sole or shared voting and/or investment power and shares that
      may be acquired on or before December 31, 2005 upon the exercise of stock
      options as well as exercise of warrants. The chart is based on 48,039,947 common
      shares outstanding as of December 31, 2005. Except as otherwise stated in the
      footnotes below, the named persons have sole voting and investment power with
      regard to the shares shown as beneficially owned by such persons. 

Represents
                less than one percent of the outstanding
                shares. 

32 

7. 

The
                address of Fredric H. Mack is 2115 Linwood Avenue, Fort Lee, New
                Jersey
                07024.   Fredric
                H. Mack, trustee of 4-30-92 Trust, Fred Mack Trust - Hailey Mack,
                and Fred
                Mack Trust - Jason Mack, exercises sole or shared voting or dispositive
                power with respect to the securities held by 4-30-92 Trust, Fred
                Mack
                Trust - Hailey Mack, and Fred Mack Trust  
                -
                Jason Mack.  

12. 

Consists
                of 101,372 shares of Level 8 common stock issuable upon the exercise
                warrants. The exercise price of the warrants range from $0.37 to
                the lower
                of $0.20 or the trading price of Level 8 s common stock at the time of
                exercise. Includes 300,000 shares of common stock upon the conversion
                of
                $21,000 principal amount of convertible promissory note issued on
                April
                25, 2005 at a conversion price of $0.07 per share. Mr. Miller has
                sole or
                shared voting or dispositive power with respect to the securities
                held by
                Delphi Partners, Ltd., which holds a senior promissory note in the
                amount
                of $10,203.49 which bears interest at 10% per annum. Delphi Partners,
                Ltd.
                also owns 128,571 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion
                of
                $9,000 principal amount of convertible promissory note issued on
                April 25,
                2005 at a conversion price of $0.07. Delphi Partners owns 175,686
                shares
                of common stock issuable upon the exercise of warrants. The exercise
                price
                of the warrants range from $0.45 to the lower of $0.20 or the trading
                price of Level 8 s common stock at the time of exercise.

13. 

Includes
                shares issuable upon exercise of options and warrants exercisable
                within
                sixty (60) days as described in Notes 5-12 to our financial
                statements. 

33 

EQUITY
      COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION  

The
      following table sets forth certain information as of December 31, 2005, about
      shares of Common Stock outstanding and available for issuance under the
      Company s existing equity compensation plans: the Level 8 Systems, Inc. 1997
      Stock Option Incentive Plan, the 1995 Non-Qualified Option Plan and the Outside
      Director Stock Option Plan. All of the Company s Equity Compensation Plans were
      approved by the Company s stockholders. 

Plan
                Category  

Number
                of Securities to     be
                issued upon exercise   

                 of

outstanding  

                  options  

Weighted-average  

                 exercise

price

of  

                      outstanding

options  

Number
                of securities  

                 remaining
                available under     equity
                compensation plans  

                 (excluding
                securities reflected     in
                the first column)  

Equity
                compensation plans approved by stockholders    

5,900,897 

$ 

1.30 

2,413,010 

Equity
                compensation plans not approved by stockholders (1)    

-- 

-- 

-- 

Total 

5,900,897 

$ 

1.30 

2,413,010 

(1)
      The
      Company does not have any Equity Compensation Plans that were not approved
      by
      stockholders. 

Item
      13.       Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions.  

Loan
      from Related Parties  

During
      200  5,
      the
      Company entered into short term notes       payable
      with Anthony Pizi, the Company s former Chief Executive Officer, and current
      Chief Information Officer, for various working capital needs. The Notes bear
      interest at 1% per month and are unsecured. At December 31, 2005, the Company
      was indebted to Mr. Pizi in the amount of $9,000.  

Convertible
      Promissory Notes   .
      Directors and executive officers made the following loans to us for convertible
      promissory notes: In June 2004, the Company entered into a convertible
      promissory note with Mr. Pizi.   The
      note,
      in the face amount of $112,000, bears interest at 1% per month and is
      convertible into 560,000 shares of the Company s common stock and warrants to
      purchase 560,000 shares of our common stock at $0.20 per share. Also in June
      2004, Mr. Pizi entered into a second convertible promissory note in the face
      amount of $15,000 which is convertible into 90,118 shares of the Company s
      common stock and warrants to purchase 90,118 shares of the Company s common
      stock at $0.17 per share.  

On
      April
      12, 2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Mr. Pizi.
      The note, in the face amount of $100,000, bears interest at 1% per month and
      is
      convertible into common stock of the Company at a conversion rate of $0.37
      per
      share. In addition, Mr. Pizi was granted 270,270 warrants to purchase the
      Company s common stock at $0.37 per share.  

In
      October 2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Mr.
      and Mrs. Landis in the amount of $100  ,000  .
      Under
      the terms of the agreement, the loan bears interest at 1% per month and is
      convertible into 1,000,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase
      2,000,000 shares of the Company s common stock exercisable at $0.10   per
      share  .

In
      June
      2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Mr. and Mrs.
      Landis in the amount of $125  ,000  .
      Under
      the terms of the note, the loan bears interest at 1% per month and is
      convertible into 781,250 shares of Level 8 common stock and warrants to purchase
      781,250 shares of Level 8 common stock exercisable at $0.16   per
      share  .

In
      March
      2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Mr. and Mrs.
      Landis in the amount of $125,000. Under the terms of the note, the loan bears
      interest at 1% per month, and is convertible into  

34 

446,429
      shares of Level 8 common stock and warrants to purchase 446,429 shares of Level
      8 common stock exercisable at $0.28 per share.  

In
      June
      2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Fredric Mack,
      a former director of Level 8, in the amount of $125,000. Under the terms of
      the
      note, the loan bears interest at 1% per month, and is convertible into 390,625
      shares of Level 8 common stock and warrants to purchase 390,625 shares of Level
      8 common stock exercisable at $0.32 per share.  

In
      April
      2005, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Bruce Miller,
      a director of Level 8, in the amount of $30,000. Under the terms of the note,
      the loan bears interest at 1% per month and is convertible into 428,571 shares
      of Level 8 common stock. 

In
      July
      2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Nicholas
      Hatalski, who until July 22, 2005 (during the period when the terms of the
      recapitalization merger were being negotiated and at the time of approval of
      the
      recapitalization merger by our board of directors), was a director of Level
      8,
      in the amount of $25,000. Under the terms of the note, the loan bears interest
      at 1.5% per month and is convertible into 78,125 shares of Level 8 common stock
      and warrants to purchase 78,125 shares of Level 8 common stock exercisable
      at
      $0.32 per share.  

All
      of
      such warrants expire three years from date of grant. 

Senior
      Reorganization    Notes.
      From March 2004 to April 2005, directors and executive officers made the
      following loans to us for Senior Reorganization Notes: Mr. Pizi holds $423,333
      of Senior Reorganization Notes, which may be converted into warrants to purchase
      an additional 57,165,993 shares of Level 8 common stock at a purchase price
      of
      $0.002 per share.      

Mr.
      Landis holds $327,860 of Senior Reorganization Notes, which may be converted
      into warrants to purchase an additional 44,234,523 shares of Level 8 common
      stock at an exercise price of $0.002 per share.  

Mr.
      Mack
      holds, together with his affiliates, $88,122 of Senior Reorganization Notes,
      which may be converted into warrants to purchase an additional 44,234,523 shares
      of Level 8 common stock at a purchase price of $0.002 per share.  

Mr.
      Miller holds, together with his affiliates, $77,706 of Senior Reorganization
      Notes, which may be converted into warrants to purchase an additional 11,459,727
      shares of Level 8 common stock at a purchase price of $0.002.  

John
      Broderick, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Level 8,
      holds
      $2,300 of Senior Reorganization Notes, which may be converted into warrants
      to
      purchase 333,333 shares of Level 8 common stock at a purchase price of $0.002
      per share, and options to purchase 1,099,200 shares of common stock under the
      Level 8 stock option plan that will convert into options to purchase Cicero
      common stock.  

Such
      warrants are only issuable upon approval of the recapitalization merger, and
      are
      to be automatically exercised in connection with the consummation of the
      recapitalization merger.  

Convertible
      Bridge Notes   .
      From
      July to December 2005, directors and executive officers made the following
      loans
      to us for Convertible Bridge Notes:  

Mr.
      Pizi
      holds $85,000 of Convertible Bridge Notes which bear interest at 10% and mature
      on September 15, 2005. Upon consummation of the recapitalization merger, these
      notes will automatically convert into 3,400,000 shares of Cicero common stock.

Mr.
      Landis holds $213,000 of Convertible Bridge Notes which bear interest at 10%
      and
      mature on September 15, 2005. Upon consummation of the recapitalization merger,
      these notes will automatically convert into 8,520,000 shares of Cicero common
      stock.  

Mr.
      Mack
      holds, together with his affiliates, $74,000 of Convertible Bridge Notes which
      bear interest at 10% and mature on September 15, 2005. Upon consummation of
      the
      recapitalization merger, these notes will automatically convert into 2,960,000
      shares of Cicero common stock.  

Mr.
      Miller holds, together with his affiliates, $90,000 of Convertible Bridge Notes
      which bear interest at 10% and mature on September 15, 2005. Upon consummation
      of the recapitalization merger, these notes will automatically convert into
      3,600,000 shares of Cicero common stock.  

35 

Bruce
      Hasenyager, a member of our Board of Directors, holds $4,061 of Convertible
      Bridge Notes which bear interest at 10% and mature on September 15, 2005. Upon
      consummation of the recapitalization merger, these notes will automatically
      convert into 162,425 shares of Cicero common stock. 

Bruce
      Percelay, a member of our Board of Directors, holds $100,000 of Convertible
      Bridge Notes which bear interest at 10% and mature on December 15, 2005. Upon
      consummation of the recapitalization merger, these notes will automatically
      convert into 4,000,000 shares of Cicero common stock. 

Transactions
      with Merrill Lynch   

On
      January 3, 2002, the Company entered into a Purchase Agreement with MLBC, Inc.,
      an affiliate of Merrill Lynch. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Company
      issued 250,000 shares of its common stock to MLBC and entered into a royalty
      sharing agreement for sales of Cicero. Under the royalty sharing agreement,
      the
      Company is obligated to pay a royalty of 3% of the sales price for each sale
      of
      Cicero or related maintenance services. The royalties are not payable in excess
      of $20 million. As consideration for the issuance of the shares and the royalty
      payments, Merrill Lynch has entered into an amendment to the Cicero license
      agreement, which extends our exclusive worldwide marketing, sales, and
      development rights to Cicero and granted us certain ownership rights in the
      Cicero trademark. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Company also entered
      into a Registration Rights Agreement granting MLBC certain rights to have the
      shares of common stock it received under the Purchase Agreement registered
      under
      the Securities Act. 

Preferred
      Stock and Warrant Exchange  

On
      March
      19, 2003, Level 8 Systems, Inc. completed a $3.5 million private placement
      of
      Series D Convertible Preferred Stock ( Series D Preferred Stock ), convertible
      at a conversion ratio of $0.32 per share of common stock into an aggregate
      of
      11,031,250 shares of common stock. As part of the financing, the Company has
      also issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 4,158,780 shares of common
      stock at an exercise price of $0.07 per share ( Series D-1 Warrants ). On
      October 10, 2003, the Company, consistent with its obligations, also issued
      warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,665,720 shares of common stock at an
      exercise price the lesser of $0.20 per share or market price at the time of
      exercise ( Series D-2 Warrants ). The Series D-2 Warrants became exercisable on
      November 1, 2003, because the Company failed to report $6 million in gross
      revenues for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2003. Both existing
      and
      new investors participated in the financing. The Company also agreed to register
      the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series D Preferred Stock and
      exercise of the warrants for resale under the Securities Act of 1933, as
      amended. Under the terms of the financing agreement, a redemption event may
      occur if any one person, entity or group shall control more than 35% of the
      voting power of the Company s capital stock. The Company allocated the proceeds
      received from the sale of the Series D Preferred Stock and warrants to the
      preferred stock and detachable warrants on a relative fair value basis,
      resulting in an allocation of $2,890,000 to the Series D Preferred Stock and
      $640,000 to the detachable warrants. Based upon the allocation of the proceeds,
      the Company determined that the effective conversion price of the Series D
      Preferred Stock was less than the fair value of the Company s common stock on
      the date of issuance. The beneficial conversion feature was recorded as a
      discount on the value of the Series D Preferred Stock and an increase in
      additional paid-in capital. Because Series D Preferred Stock was convertible
      immediately upon issuance, the Company fully amortized such beneficial
      conversion feature on the date of issuance. 

On
      October 25, 2002, we effected an exchange of all of our outstanding shares
      of
      Series A2 Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock ( Series A2 Preferred Stock )
      and Series B2 Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock ( Series B2 Preferred
      Stock ) and related warrants for an equal number of shares of newly created
      Series A3 Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock ( Series A3 Preferred Stock )
      and Series B3 Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock ( Series B3 Preferred
      Stock ) and related warrants. This exchange was made to correct a deficiency in
      potential conversion price adjustments from the prior exchange of Series A1
      and
      B1 Preferred Stock and related warrants for Series A2 and B2 Preferred Stock
      and
      related warrants on August 29, 2002. The conversion price for the Series A3
      Preferred Stock and the conversion price for the Series B3 Preferred Stock
      remain the same as the previously issued Series A1 and A2 Preferred Stock and
      Series B1 and B2 Preferred Stock, at $8.333 and $12.531, respectively. The
      exercise price for the aggregate 753,640 warrants relating to the Series A3
      Preferred Stock was increased from $0.38 to $0.40 per share which is a reduction
      from the $1.77 exercise price of the warrants relating to the Series A1
      Preferred Stock. The exercise price for the aggregate 1,047,382 warrants
      relating to the Series B3 Preferred Stock was increased from $0.38 to $0.40
      per
      share which is a reduction from the $1.77 exercise price of the warrants
      relating to the Series B1 Preferred Stock. The adjusted exercise price was
      based
      on the closing price of the Company s Series C Convertible Redeemable Preferred
      Stock and warrants on August 14, 2002, plus $0.02, to reflect accurate current
      market value according to relevant Nasdaq rules. This adjustment was made as
      part of the agreement under which the holders of the Company s Preferred Stock
      agreed to waive their price-protection anti- 

36 

dilution
      protections to allow the Company to issue the Series C Preferred Stock and
      warrants without triggering the price-protection anti-dilution provisions and
      excessively diluting its Common Stock. 

Under
      the
      terms of the agreement, we are authorized to issue equity securities in a single
      or series of financing transactions representing aggregate gross proceeds to
      the
      Company of approximately $5 million, or up to an aggregate 17,500 shares of
      common stock, whichever occurs first, without triggering the price-protection
      anti-dilution provisions in the Series A3 Preferred Stock and B3 Preferred
      Stock
      and related warrants. In exchange for the waiver of these price-protection
      anti-dilution provisions, we repriced the warrants as described above and have
      agreed to issue on a pro rata basis up to 4,600 warrants to the holders of
      Series A3 Preferred Stock and Series B3 Preferred Stock at such time and from
      time to time as the Company closes subsequent financing transactions up to
      the
      $5 million issuance cap or the 17,500 share issuance cap. As a result of the
      Series C Preferred Stock financing which represented approximately $1.6 million
      of the Company s $5 million in allowable equity issuances, the Company is
      obligated to issue an aggregate of 1,462,801 warrants at an exercise price
      of
      $0.40 per share to the existing Preferred Stockholders. Additionally, the
      Company has agreed to issue a warrant to purchase common stock to the existing
      Preferred Stockholders on a pro rata basis for each warrant to purchase common
      stock that the Company issues to a third-party lender in connection with the
      closing of a qualified loan transaction. The above referenced warrants will
      have
      the same exercise price as the exercise price of the warrant, or equity
      security, that the Company issues in connection with the Company s subsequent
      financing or loan transaction or $0.40 per share (adjusted for
      recapitalizations, stock splits and the like), whichever is
      greater. 

As
      a
      result of the Series D preferred Stock financing which represented approximately
      $3.5 million against the allowable equity issuances, the Company was obligated
      to issue an aggregate of 3,048,782 warrants at an exercise price of $0.40 per
      share to the existing Series A3 and Series B3 Preferred shareholders. The
      warrants were issued on October 8, 2003 and had a fair value of $1,062,000
      which
      was recorded as a deemed dividend to preferred stockholders. Additionally,
      the
      Company has agreed to issue a warrant to purchase common stock to the existing
      Preferred Stockholders on a pro rata basis for each warrant to purchase common
      stock that the Company issues to a third-party lender in connection with the
      closing of a qualified loan transaction. The above referenced warrants will
      have
      the same exercise price as the exercise price of the warrant, or equity
      security, that the Company issues in connection with the Company s subsequent
      financing or loan transaction or $0.40, whichever is greater. These warrants
      are
      not classified as a liability under EITF 00-19. 

Borrowings
      and Commitments from Liraz  

Liraz
      Systems Ltd. guarantees certain debt obligations of the Company. In September
      2004, the Company and Liraz agreed to extend the guarantee and with the approval
      of the lender, agreed to extend the maturity of the debt obligation until
      November 3, 2005. The Company issued 3,942,000 shares of common stock to Liraz
      in exchange for this debt extension. In 2003, the Company and Liraz also agreed
      to extend the guarantee and maturity of the debt obligation until November
      2004.
      The Company agreed to issue Liraz 300,000 shares of stock for that extension.
      In
      November 2005, The Company and Liraz Systems Ltd. agreed to extend its guaranty
      on the term loan and with Bank Hapoalim, to extend the maturity date on the
      loan
      to October 30,, 2006. Under the terms of the agreement with Liraz, the Company
      agreed to issue 2,400,000 shares of its common stock and granted a warrant
      to
      purchase an additional 3,600,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise
      price
      of $0.002 per share. Based upon fair market value at the time of issuance,
      the
      Company recognized $48,000 as loan amortization costs in the Statement of
      Operations for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

Item
      14.        Principal
      Accountant Fees and Services  

INDEPENDENT
      REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Margolis
        Company P.C. audited our financial statements for each of the years ended
      December 31, 2005 and 2004.  

AUDIT
      FEES 

Audit
      fees include fees for the audit of the Company s annual financial statements,
      fees for the review of the Company s interim financial statements, and fees for
      services that are normally provided by the Independent Registered Public
      Accounting Firm in connection with statutory and regulatory filings or
      engagements. The aggregate fees billed by Margolis   Company P.C. for
      professional services rendered to our company for the audit of the Company's
      annual financial statements for fiscal years 2005 (and reviews of quarterly
      financial statements on form 10-Q), 2005 and 2004 was $36,000 for each year.

37 

AUDIT-RELATED
      FEES 

Audit-related
      fees include fees for assurance and related services that are reasonably related
      to the performance of the audit or review of the Company s financial statements.
      There were no audit-related fees paid to Margolis   Company P.C. for fiscal
      years 2005 and 2004.  

TAX
      FEES 

Tax
      fees
      include fees for tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning. There were no
      fees
      billed by Margolis   Company P.C. for these services in 2005 and 2004.

OTHER
      FEES 

All
      other
      fees include fees for all services except those described above. The aggregate
      other fees billed by Margolis   Company P.C. was $18,000 related to the
      review of the Company s S-4 filing in 2005, and $6,100 for the Company s S-1
      filing in 2004. In addition, other fees billed by Deloitte   Touche in 2005
      amounted to $27,500. These fees relate to the review of the Company s S-4 filing
      during 2005.  

DETERMINATION
      OF AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE 

The
      Audit
      Committee considered the provision of non-audit services by Margolis  
Company P.C. and determined that the provision of such services was consistent
      with maintaining the independence of Margolis   Company P.C.  

AUDIT
      COMMITTEE'S PRE-APPROVAL POLICIES 

The
      Audit
      Committee has adopted a policy that all audit, audit-related, tax and any other
      non-audit service to be performed by the Company s Independent Registered Public
      Accounting Firm must be preapproved by the Audit Committee. It is the Company s
      policy that all such services be preapproved prior to commencement of the
      engagement. The Audit Committee is also required to preapprove the estimated
      fees for such services, as well as any subsequent changes to the terms of the
      engagement. 

38 

PART
      IV  

Item
      15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form
      8-K.   

(A)
      1.
      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The
      following financial statements of the Company and the related reports of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms thereon are set forth immediately
      following the Index of Financial Statements which appears on page F-1 of this
      report: 

Independent
      Registered Public Accounting Firm Report 

Consolidated
      Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 

Consolidated
      Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
      2003 

Consolidated
      Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
      and 2003 

Consolidated
      Statements of Comprehensive Loss for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
      and
      2003 

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
      2003 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements 

2.
        FINANCIAL
      STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

All
      other
      schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations
      of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related
      instructions or are inapplicable and therefore have been omitted. 

3.
        EXHIBITS 

The
      exhibits listed under Item 15(c) hereof are filed as part of this Annual Report
      on Form 10-K. 

(B) 

REPORTS
                ON FORM 8-K  

On
      December 12, 2005 the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the filing of
      participation in a recapitalization reorganization merger filed on Form S-4/A
      on
      December 9, 2005, an amendment to Form S-4 filed May 13, 2005, subject to
      approval by the stockholders, of a recapitalization reorganization merger of
      the
      Company to Cicero, Inc. 

On
      December 5, 2005, Level 8 Systems filed a Form 8-K reporting the Company reached
      an agreement with Liraz Systems, Ltd. ( Liraz ), the guarantor of the Bank
      Hapoalim term loan, to extend the guaranty and maturity of the Bank Hapoalim
      debt until November 2006. 

On
      March
      10, 2005, Level 8 Systems filed a Form 8-K reporting the election of Mr. Ralph
      Martino as Chairman of the Board of Directors replacing Mr. Anthony Pizi who
      remains as a director. 

On
      June
      3, 2005, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the resignation of Mr. Ralph
      Martino as Chairman of the Board of Directors. 

On
      June
      6, 2005 the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the election of Mr. Charles
      B.
      Porciello to the Board of Directors. 

On
      June
      17, 2005 the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the approval by the Board of
      Directors, subject to approval by the stockholders, of a recapitalization
      reorganization merger of the Company to Cicero, Inc. 

On
      July
      27, 2005, the Company filed a Form 8-K reporting the resignations and
      appointments of members to the Company s Board of Directors. 

39 

On
      February 6, 2004, Level 8 Systems filed a Form 8-K reporting the appointment
      of
      Margolis   Company P.C. as the Company s new Independent Registered Public
      Accounting Firm. 

On
      November 26, 2003, Level 8 Systems filed a Form 8 K reporting the resignation
      of
      Deloitte   Touche LLP as the Company s Independent Registered Public
      Accounting Firm.  

(C)
      EXHIBITS  

40 

41 

42 

43 

*
      Management contract or compensatory agreement. 

44 

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf
      by
      the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

LEVEL
      8
      SYSTEMS, INC. 

By:
         /s/
      John P. Broderick      

        John
      P.
      Broderick 

        Chief
      Executive Officer 

        Date:
      March 31, 2006 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the following
      persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
      indicated have signed this Report below. 

45 

INDEX
      TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

Report
                    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm                         

F-2 

Financial
                    Statements:  

Consolidated
                  Balance Sheets  
                     
                   F-3  

Consolidated
                  Statements of Operations  
                     
                   F-4  

Consolidated
                  Statements of Stockholders' Equity (Deficit)  
                     
                   F-5  

Consolidated
                  Statements of Comprehensive Loss  
                     
                   F-6  

Consolidated
                  Statements of Cash Flows  
                     
                   F-7  

Notes
                  to Consolidated Financial Statements  
                     
                   F-10  

F
          -1 

REPORT
      OF
      INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To
      the
      Board of Directors and Stockholders of 

      Level
      8
      Systems, Inc. 

      Farmingdale,
      New Jersey 

We
      have
      audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Level 8 Systems, Inc.
      and
      subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related
      consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity (deficit), cash
      flows, and comprehensive loss for each of the three years in the period ended
      December 31, 2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
      Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
      financial statements based on our audits. 

We
      conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
      statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
      on a
      test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
      statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
      and
      significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
      financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
      reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In
      our
      opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly,
      in all material respects, the financial position of Level 8 Systems, Inc. and
      subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their
      operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
      December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
      in the United States of America.  

The
      accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming
      that
      the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the
      consolidated financial statements, the Company's recurring losses from
      operations and working capital deficiency raise substantial doubt about its
      ability to continue as a going concern. Management's plans concerning these
      matters are also described in Note 1. The consolidated financial statements
      do
      not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this
      uncertainty.  

/s/
      Margolis  
Company P.C. 

Certified
      Public
      Accountants 

Bala
      Cynwyd, PA 

      March
      23,
      2006 

F
          -2 

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

       CONSOLIDATED
      BALANCE SHEETS   

       (in
      thousands, except share and per share amounts)     

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
      statements.  

F
          -3 

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

       CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  

       (in
      thousands, except per share amounts)  

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
      statements. 

F
          -4 

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

       CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)  

       (in
      thousands)  

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
      statements. 

F
          -5 

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

       CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS  

       (in
      thousands)  

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
      statements. 

F
          -6 

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

       CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

       (in
      thousands)  

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
      statements. 

F
          -7 

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

       CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS - CONTINUED  

Non-Cash
      Investing and Financing Activities  

2005   

During
      2005, the Company issued 961,329 shares of common stock to vendors for
      outstanding liabilities valued at $103,000.  

In
      November 2005, the Company issued 2,400,000 shares of common stock to a
      designated subsidiary of Liraz Systems Ltd. as compensation for extension of
      a
      bank debt guarantee valued at $48,000.  

During
      2005, the Company issued 956,250 shares of Level 8 Systems common stock upon
      conversion of 306 shares of Series D Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock.

During
      2005, 150 shares of Series C Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock were
      converted into 394,737 shares of Level 8 Systems common stock. 

2004   

During
      2004, the Company issued 600,948 shares of common stock to vendors for
      outstanding liabilities valued at $92,000. The Company also issued 466,668
      shares of common stock to contractors for compensation valued at
      $47,000. 

In
      January 2004, the Company acquired substantially all assets and certain
      liabilities of a federally certified encryption software company. The Company
      issued 2,027,027 shares of common stock valued at $750,000. 

During
      2004, the Company issued 4,092,000 shares of common stock to a designated
      subsidiary of Liraz Systems Ltd. as compensation for extension of a bank debt
      guarantee valued at $447,000.  

In
      October 2004, 750 shares of Series D Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock
      were
      redeemed   in
      return
      for $775,000 as a condition of escrow in the event that a joint venture for
      the
      Asian market was not formed or operational by July 17, 2003. Such redemption
      was
      concluded in November 2004 and the escrowed proceeds, including $4,000 of
      interest, were distributed back to the holders of Series D Preferred Stock.
        During
      2004, the Company issued 3,791,999 shares of Level 8 Systems common stock upon
      conversion of 1,213 shares of Series D Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock.

During
      2004, 179 shares of Series C Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock were
      converted into 523,684 shares of Level 8 Systems common stock. 

In
      May
      2004, the Company issued 135,135 shares of common stock on conversion of a
      $50,000 convertible note. 

2003   

During
      2003, the Company issued 161,438 shares of common stock to vendors for
      outstanding liabilities valued at $73,000. Of this total, 66,667 shares or
      $25,000, were issued as part of the 1,894,444 shares issued in the October
      2003
      private placement. 

In
      November 2003, the Company issued 150,000 shares of common stock to a designated
      subsidiary of Liraz Systems Ltd. as compensation for extension of a bank debt
      guarantee valued at $51,000.  

During
      2003, the Company issued 546,875 shares of Level 8 Systems common stock upon
      conversion of 175 shares of Series D Convertible Redeemable Preferred
      Stock. 

In
      October 2003, the Company issued 3,048,782 warrants to holders of the Series
      A3
      Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock and Series B3 Convertible Redeemable
      Preferred Stock under an existing agreement and in consideration for the waiver
      of certain price protection anti-dilution provisions of the Series A3 Preferred
      Stock and Series B3 Preferred Stock agreements. The warrants have a strike
      price
      of $0.40 valued at $1,062,000. (See Note 12.) 

F
          -8 

In
      April
      2003, the Company agreed to exchange the warrants issued in the January 2002
      private placement priced at $2.50 each for new warrants priced at $0.60 each
      and
      has extended the expiration date to until March 2007. This exchange was made
      as
      a result of a waiver by such warrant holders of certain terms and conditions
      that would trigger payments by the Company if the Company did not keep such
      shares registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 

F
          -9 

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

       NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

NOTE
                1.  

SUMMARY
                OF OPERATIONS, SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RECENT ACCOUNTING
                PRONOUNCEMENTS  

Level
      8
      Systems, Inc. (''Level 8'' or the ''Company'') is a global provider of business
      integration software that enables organizations to integrate new and existing
      information and processes at the desktop. Business integration software
      addresses the emerging need for a company's information systems to deliver
      enterprise-wide views of the company's business information processes.

Going
      Concern:  

The
      accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis,
      which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities
      in the normal course of business. The Company has incurred a loss of $3,681,000
      for the year ended December 31, 2005 and has experienced negative cash flows
      from operations for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.
      At
      December 31, 2005, the Company had a working capital deficiency of approximately
      $13,894,000. The Company s future revenues are entirely dependent on acceptance
      of a newly developed and marketed product, Cicero, which has had limited success
      in commercial markets to date. These factors among others raise substantial
      doubt about the Company s ability to continue as a going concern for a
      reasonable period of time. 

The
      financial statements presented herein do not include any adjustments relating
      to
      the recoverability of assets and classification of liabilities that might be
      necessary should Level 8 be unable to continue as a going concern. In order
      to
      address these issues and to obtain adequate financing for the Company s
      operations for the next twelve months, the Company is actively promoting and
      expanding its Cicero-related product line and continues to negotiate with
      significant customers who have expressed interest in the Cicero software
      technology. The Company is experiencing difficulty increasing sales revenue
      largely because of the inimitable nature of the product as well as customer
      concerns about the financial viability of the Company. Cicero software is a
      new
 category defining  product in that most Enterprise Application Integration
      (EAI) projects are performed at the server level and Cicero s integration occurs
      at the desktop without the need to open and modify the underlying code for
      those
      applications being integrated. Many companies are not aware of this new
      technology or tend to look toward more traditional and accepted approaches.
      Level 8 is attempting to solve the former problem by improving the market s
      knowledge and understanding of Cicero software through increased marketing
      and
      leveraging its limited number of reference accounts while enhancing its list
      of
      resellers and system integrators to assist in the sales and marketing process.
      Additionally, the Company is seeking additional equity capital or other
      strategic transactions in the near term to provide additional liquidity. In
      2004, the Company announced a Note and Warrant Offering in which warrant holders
      of Level 8 s common stock were offered a one-time conversion of their existing
      warrants at a conversion price of $0.10 per share as part of a recapitalization
      merger plan. Under the terms of the Offer, warrant holders who elect to convert,
      would tender their conversion price in cash and receive a Note Payable in
      exchange. Upon approval of the recapitalization merger at a Shareholders
      meeting, these Notes would convert into common shares of Cicero, Inc., the
      surviving corporation in the merger. As of December 31, 2005, the Company raised
      a total of $2,559,000 from the Note and Warrant Offering. During 2005, the
      Company also entered into several Convertible Bridge Notes with a consortium
      of
      investors. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had raised $1,760,000 of
      Convertible Bridge Notes. The Convertible Bridge Notes convert into common
      stock
      of Cicero, Inc. upon approval of the recapitalization merger. Management expects
      that it will be able to raise additional capital, post merger, and to continue
      to fund operations and also expects that increased revenues will reduce its
      operating losses in future periods, however, there can be no assurance that
      management s plan will be executed as anticipated. 

Principles
      of Consolidation:  

The
      accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
      Company and its subsidiaries. All of the Company's subsidiaries are wholly-owned
      for the periods presented. 

All
      significant inter-company accounts and transactions are eliminated in
      consolidation.  

F
          -10 

Use
      of Estimates:  

The
      preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principals
      generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make
      estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
      liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
      of
      the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
      during the reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from these estimates.

Financial
      Instruments:  

The
      carrying amount of the Company s financial instruments, representing accounts
      receivable, notes receivable, accounts payable and debt approximate their fair
      value. 

Foreign
      Currency Translation:  

The
      assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars
      at
      the current exchange rate as of the balance sheet date. The resulting
      translation adjustment is recorded in other comprehensive income as a component
      of stockholders' equity. Statements of operations items are translated at
      average rates of exchange during each reporting period.  

Transaction
      gains and losses that arise from exchange rate fluctuations on transactions
      denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are included in
      the
      results of operations as incurred.  

Cash
      and Cash Equivalents:  

Cash
      and
      cash equivalents include all cash balances and highly liquid investments with
      maturity of three months or less from the date of purchase. For these
      instruments, the carrying amount is considered to be a reasonable estimate
      of
      fair value. The Company places substantially all cash and cash equivalents
      with
      various financial institutions in both the United States and several foreign
      countries. At times, such cash and cash equivalents in the United States may
      be
      in excess of FDIC insurance limits.  

Trade
      Accounts Receivable:  

Trade
      accounts receivable are stated in the amount management expects to collect
      from
      outstanding balances. Management provides for probable uncollectible amounts
      through a charge to earnings and a credit to a valuation allowance based on
      its
      assessment of the current status of individual accounts. Balances that are
      still
      outstanding after management has used reasonable collection efforts are written
      off through a charge to the valuation allowance and a credit to trade accounts
      receivable. Changes in the valuation allowance have not been material to the
      financial statements. 

Property
      and Equipment:  

Property
      and equipment purchased in the normal course of business is stated at cost,
      and
      property and equipment acquired in business combinations is stated at its fair
      market value at the acquisition date. All property and equipment is depreciated
      using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives.  

Expenditures
      for repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred. The cost and
      related accumulated depreciation of property and equipment are removed from
      the
      accounts upon retirement or other disposition and any resulting gain or loss
      is
      reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

F
          -11 

Software
      Development Costs   : 

The
      Company capitalizes certain software costs after technological feasibility
      of
      the product has been established. Generally, an original estimated economic
      life
      of three years is assigned to capitalized software costs, once the product
      is
      available for general release to customers. Costs incurred prior to the
      establishment of technological feasibility are charged to research and
      development expense. 

Additionally,
      the Company has recorded software development costs for its purchases of
      developed technology through acquisitions. (See Note 2.)  

Capitalized
      software costs are amortized over related sales on a product-by-product basis
      using the straight-line method over the remaining estimated economic life of
      the
      product. (See Note 7.) 

The
      establishment of technological feasibility and the ongoing assessment of
      recoverability of capitalized software development costs require considerable
      judgment by management with respect to certain external factors, including,
      but
      not limited to, technological feasibility, anticipated future gross revenue,
      estimated economic life and changes in software and hardware technologies.

Long-Lived
      Assets:  

The
      Company reviews the recoverability of long-lived intangible assets when
      circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of assets may not be
      recoverable. This evaluation is based on various analyses including undiscounted
      cash flow projections. In the event undiscounted cash flow projections indicate
      impairment, the Company would record an impairment based on the fair value
      of
      the assets at the date of the impairment. Effective January 1, 2002, the Company
      accounts for impairments under the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB")
      Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144,  Accounting for
      the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets . During 2004 and 2003, the
      Company recorded impairments associated with its Cicero technology and for
      its
      Ensuredmail technology acquired in 2004.  

Revenue
      Recognition:  

The
      Company recognizes license revenue from end-users and third party resellers
      in
      accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA")
      Statement of Position ("SOP") 97-2,  Software Revenue Recognition , as amended
      by SOP 98-9, ''Modification of SOP 97-2, 'Software Revenue Recognition,' with
      Respect to Certain Transactions''. The Company reviews each contract to identify
      elements included in the software arrangement. SOP 97-2 and SOP 98-9 require
      that an entity recognize revenue for multiple element arrangements by means
      of
      the ''residual method'' when (1) there is vendor-specific objective evidence
      (''VSOE'') of the fair values of all of the undelivered elements that are not
      accounted for by means of long-term contract accounting, (2) VSOE of fair value
      does not exist for one or more of the delivered elements, and (3) all revenue
      recognition criteria of SOP 97-2 (other than the requirement for VSOE of the
      fair value of each delivered element) are satisfied. VSOE of the fair value
      of
      undelivered elements is established on the price charged for that element when
      sold separately. Software customers are given no rights of return and a
      short-term warranty that the products will comply with the written
      documentation. The Company has not experienced any product warranty
      returns. 

Revenue
      from recurring maintenance contracts is recognized ratably over the maintenance
      contract period, which is typically twelve months. Maintenance revenue that
      is
      not yet earned is included in deferred revenue. Any unearned receipts from
      service contracts result in deferred revenue.  

Revenue
      from consulting and training services is recognized as services are performed.
      Any unearned receipts from service contracts result in deferred revenue.

Cost
      of Revenue:  

The
      primary components of the Company's cost of revenue for its software products
      are software amortization on internally developed and acquired technology,
      royalties on certain products, and packaging and distribution costs. The primary
      component of the Company's cost of revenue for maintenance and services is
      compensation expense.  

F
          -12 

Advertising
      Expenses:  

The
      Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expenses were
      approximately $16,000, $7,000, and $9,000 for the years ended December 31,
      2005,
      2004 and 2003, respectively.  

Research
      and Product Development:  

Research
      and product development costs are expensed as incurred.  

Income
      Taxes:  

The
      Company uses SFAS No. 109, ''Accounting for Income Taxes'', to account for
      income taxes. This statement requires an asset and liability approach that
      recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax
      consequences of events that have been recognized in the Company's financial
      statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax consequences, all expected
      future events, other than enactments of changes in the tax law or rates, are
      generally considered. A valuation allowance is recorded when it is ''more likely
      than not'' that recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized. (See Note
      11.) 

Discontinued
      Operations:  

During
      the third quarter of 2002, the Company made a decision to dispose of the Systems
      Integration segment and entered into negotiations with potential buyers. The
      Systems Integration segment qualified for treatment as a discontinued operation
      in accordance with SFAS 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
      Long-Lived Assets , and the Company reclassified the results of operations for
      the Systems Integration segment in 2002 to "loss from discontinued operations"
      in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The sale of the Systems
      Integration segment was completed in December 2002.  

Loss
      Per Share:  

Basic
      loss per share is computed based upon the weighted average number of common
      shares outstanding. Diluted loss per share is computed based upon the weighted
      average number of common shares outstanding and any potentially dilutive
      securities. During 2005, 2004, and 2003, potentially dilutive securities
      included stock options, warrants to purchase common stock, and preferred stock.

The
      following table sets forth the potential shares that are not included in the
      diluted net loss per share calculation because to do so would be anti-dilutive
      for the periods presented: 

In
      2005,
      2004 and 2003, no dividends were declared on preferred stock.  

Stock-Based
      Compensation:  

The
      Company has adopted the disclosure provisions of SFAS 123,  Accounting for
      Stock-Based Compensation , and has applied Accounting Principles Board ( APB )
      Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , and related
      Interpretations in accounting for its stock-based compensation plans. Had
      compensation cost for the Company s stock option plans been determined based on
      the fair value at the grant dates for awards under the plans, consistent with
      the method required by SFAS No. 123, the Company s net loss and diluted net loss
      per common share would have been the pro forma amounts indicated below (in
      thousands). 

F
          -13 

The
      fair
      value of the Company's stock-based awards to employees was estimated as of
      the
      date of the grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, using the
      following weighted-average assumptions:  

Warrants
      Liability   : 

The
      Company has issued warrants to Series A3 and Series B3 preferred stockholders
      which contain provisions that allow the warrant holders to force a cash
      redemption for events outside the control of the Company. The fair value of
      the
      warrants are accounted for as a liability and are re-measured through the
      Consolidated Statements of Operations at each balance sheet date. 

Reclassifications:  

Certain
      prior year amounts in the accompanying financial statements have been
      reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation. Such reclassifications had
      no
      effect on previously reported net income or stockholders  equity.  

Recent
      Accounting Pronouncements:  

In
      May
      2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error
      Corrections , which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of
      a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary
      changes in accounting principle as well as to changes required by an accounting
      pronouncement that does not include specific transition provisions. SFAS
      No. 154 requires that changes in accounting principle be retrospectively
      applied. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections
      of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The
      Company does not believe adoption of this statement will have a material impact
      on the Company s financial statements.  

In
      December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based
      Payment, ( SFAS 123R ).  SFAS 123R addresses the accounting for share-based
      payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options.  Under
      the new standard, companies will no longer be able to account for share-based
      compensation transactions using the intrinsic method in accordance with APB
      Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees .  Instead,
      companies will be required to account for such transactions using a fair-value
      method and recognize the expense in the consolidated statements of
      operations.  SFAS 123R will be effective for periods beginning after
      June 15, 2005 and allows, but does not require, companies to restate the
      full fiscal year of 2005 to reflect the impact of expensing share-based payments
      under SFAS 123R.  The Company has not yet determined which fair-value
      method and transitional provision it will follow.  However, the Company
      expects that the adoption of SFAS 123R will have a significant impact on its
      results of operations.  The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS
      123R will impact its overall financial position.  See Stock-Based
      Compensation above for the pro forma impact on net loss and net loss per share
      from calculating stock-based compensation costs under the fair  

F
          -14 

value
      alternative of SFAS 123.  However, the calculation of compensation cost for
      share-based payment transactions after the effective date of SFAS 123R may
      be
      different from the calculation of compensation cost under SFAS 123, but such
      differences have not yet been quantified. 

NOTE
      2.        ACQUISITIONS  

In
      January 2004, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and certain
      liabilities of Critical Mass Mail, Inc., d/b/a Ensuredmail, a federally
      certified encryption software company. Under the terms of the purchase
      agreement, the Company issued 2,027,027 shares of common stock at a price of
      $0.37. The total purchase price of the assets being acquired plus certain
      liabilities assumed was $750,000, and has been accounted for by the purchase
      method of accounting. The Company agreed to register the common stock for resale
      under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  

The
      purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
      based on the Company s estimates of fair value at the acquisition date. The
      Company assessed the net realizable value of the Ensuredmail software technology
      acquired and determined the purchase price exceeded the amounts allocated to
      the
      software technology acquired less liabilities assumed by approximately $587,000.
      This excess of the purchase price over the fair values of the assets acquired
      less liabilities assumed was allocated to goodwill, and, because it was deemed
      impaired, charged to the Statements of Operations for the year ended December
      31, 2004. (See Note 7.) 

NOTE
      3.       DISPOSITIONS  

In
      March
      2003, the Company received notification of the finalization of the bankruptcy
      proceeding in the United Kingdom and recorded a gain on the closure of the
      subsidiary of $216,000 in gain (loss) on disposal of assets.  

In
      December 2003, the Company received notification of the liquidation of the
      Denmark subsidiary and the Company recorded a gain on the closure of the
      subsidiary of $62,000 in gain (loss) on disposal of assets. 

NOTE
      4.       ACCOUNTS
      RECEIVABLE  

Trade
      accounts receivable was composed of the following at December 31 (in
      thousands): 

The
      (credit) provision for uncollectible amounts was ($12,000), ($4,000), and
      ($52,000) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003,
      respectively. Write-offs (net of recoveries) of accounts receivable were ($0)
      for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and ($488,000) for the year
      ended December 31, 2003.  

NOTE
      5.       PROPERTY
      AND EQUIPMENT  

Property
      and equipment was composed of the following at December 31 (in thousands):

Depreciation
      and amortization expense of property and equipment was $11,000, $11,000 and
      $167,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003,
      respectively. 

F
          -15 

NOTE
      6.       NOTES
      RECEIVABLE  

In
      2002,
      the Company disposed of the remaining assets of the Systems Integration segment
      through a sale to EM Software Solutions, Inc. As part of the proceeds, the
      Company received two notes receivable from the purchaser. The first note was
      due
      on February 13, 2003 in the amount of $744,000 and bore interest at prime plus
      2.25%. This note was repaid in February 2003. The second note was in the
      principal amount of $617,000 and bears interest at prime plus 1%. Principal
      and
      interest is payable monthly and the note matures in 2007. Due to the uncertainty
      of the collection of the note at the time, the Company recorded the note net
      of
      an allowance of $494,000. 

As
      more
      fully discussed in Note 21, the Company had been party to litigation for breach
      of a real estate lease. That case was settled in August 2003. Under the terms
      of
      the settlement agreement, the Company agreed to assign the note receivable
      due
      from EM Software Solutions, with recourse equal to the unpaid portion of the
      Note should the Note obligor default on future payments. The principal balance
      outstanding on the Note at the time of assignment was $545,000. The Company
      assessed the probability of liability under the recourse provisions using a
      weighted probability cash flow analysis and has recognized a long-term liability
      in the amount of $131,000. In addition, the Company wrote off the unreserved
      portion of the Note, or $51,000. 

NOTE
      7.       SOFTWARE
      PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY  

In
      accordance with SFAS 86, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to
      Be
      Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed",       the
      Company periodically completed an assessment of the recoverability of the Cicero
      product technology. This assessment was performed during 2004, due to the
      Company s continued operating losses and the limited software revenue generated
      by the Cicero technology over the previous twelve to eighteen months. The
      Company was in negotiations with customers to purchase licenses, which would
      have a significant impact on the cash flows from the Cicero technology and
      the
      Company. Since the negotiations had been in process for several months and
      expected completion of the transactions had been delayed, the Company had
      reduced its cash flow projections. Historical cash flows generated by the Cicero
      technology do not support the long-lived asset and accordingly the Company
      impaired the excess of the unamortized book value of the technology in excess
      of
      the expected net realizable value for the year ended December 31, 2004. This
      charge, in the amount of $2,844,000 was recorded as software amortization for
      the year ended December 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2005, the Company has
      no
      capitalized costs for the Cicero technology. 

Also
      in
      accordance with SFAS 86,       the
      Company completed an assessment of the recoverability of the Ensuredmail product
      technology. This assessment was also completed during 2004, due to the Company s
      revised cash flow projections from software revenue. These revised cash flow
      projections do not support the long-lived asset and accordingly the Company
      has
      impaired the excess of the unamortized book value of the technology in excess
      of
      the expected net realizable value. This charge, in the amount of $154,000,
      was
      recorded as software amortization for the year ended December 31, 2004. As
      of
      December 31, 2005, the Company has no capitalized costs for the Ensuredmail
      software technology.  

Effective
      July 2002, the Company determined that the estimated asset life of the Cicero
      technology has been extended as a result of the January 2002 amended license
      agreement with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated ( Merrill
      Lynch ) wherein the exclusive right to modify, commercialize, and distribute the
      technology was extended in perpetuity. Accordingly, the Company reassessed
      the
      estimated life of the technology and extended it from three years to five years.
      The effect of the change in the estimated life resulted in a reduction of
      $4,608,000 of amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2003.
      The impact on the net loss applicable to common stockholders - basic and diluted
      was $(0.21) per share for December 31, 2003.  

During
      the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company recognized $4,276,000
      of
      which $3,585,000 is an impairment charge, and $3,933,000 of which $993,000
      is an
      impairment charge, respectively, of expense related to the amortization of
      these
      costs, which is recorded as cost of software revenue in the consolidated
      statements of operations. Accumulated amortization of capitalized software
      costs
      was $24,712,000 and $20,436,000 at December 31, 2004 and 2003,
      respectively. 

F
          -16 

NOTE
      8.          SENIOR
      REORGANIZATION DEBT  

In
      2004,
      the Company announced a Note and Warrant Offering in which warrant holders
      of
      Level 8 s common stock were offered a one-time conversion of their existing
      warrants at a conversion price of $0.10 per share as part of a recapitalization
      merger plan. Under the terms of the Offer, which expired on December 31, 2004,
      warrant holders who elect to convert, would tender their conversion price in
      cash and receive a Note Payable in exchange. As of December 31, 2005 the company
      had raised $2,559,000. Upon approval of the recapitalization merger at a
      Shareholders meeting in mid 2006, these Notes would convert into common shares
      of Cicero, Inc., the surviving corporation in the merger. In addition, those
      warrant holders who elected to convert the first $1 million of warrants would
      receive additional replacement warrants at a ratio of 2:1 for each warrant
      converted, with a strike price of $0.10 per share. In addition, upon approval
      of
      the recapitalization merger, each warrant holder would be entitled to additional
      warrants to purchase common stock in Cicero, Inc. If the merger proposal is
      not
      approved, the Notes will immediately become due and payable. 

NOTE
      9. CONVERTIBLE BRIDGE DEBT  

From
      July
      through December 2005, the Company entered into several Convertible Bridge
      Notes
      with a consortium of investors. These notes bear interest at 10% and mature
      at
      various dates beginning on September 15, 2005. The Notes are convertible into
      shares of Cicero, Inc. common stock upon effectiveness of the proposed
      recapitalization merger. Since the Company has not effected the recapitalization
      merger by December 31, 2005, the conversion rates on the Notes is $0.025. As
      of
      December 31, 2005, the Company has raised $1,760,000 of Convertible Bridge
      Notes
      of which $566,000 was from various members of the Company s Board of Directors.
      If the merger proposal is not approved, the Notes will immediately become due
      and payable.  

NOTE
      10.       SHORT
      TERM DEBT AND CONVERTIBLE NOTES  

Notes
      payable, long-term debt, and notes payable to related party consist of the
      following at December 31(in thousands): 

(a) 

The
                Company has a $1,971 term loan bearing interest at LIBOR plus 1.5%
                (approximately 5.26% at December 31, 2005). Interest is payable quarterly.
                There are no financial covenants and the term loan is guaranteed
                by Liraz
                Systems Ltd., the Company s former principal shareholder. The loan matures
                on October 30, 2006. (See Note 18.) 

(b) 

From
                time to time the Company borrowed money from the Company's Chief
                Information Officer. The notes bear interest at 12% per annum. As
                of
                December 31, 2005, the Company is indebted to Anthony Pizi, the Company s
                former Chairman and CEO and current Chief Information Officer, in
                the
                amount of $9,000.  

(c) 

The
                Company does not have a revolving credit facility and from time to
                time
                has issued a series of short term promissory notes with private lenders,
                which provide for short term borrowings both secured and unsecured
                by
                accounts receivable. In addition, the Company has settled certain
                litigation and agreed to a series of promissory notes to support
                the
                obligations. The notes bear interest between 10% and 12% per annum.

(d)     The
      Company entered into convertible notes with private lenders. The notes bear
      interest between 12% and 18% per annum and allow for the conversion of the
      principal amount due into common stock of the Company. In April 2005, the
      Company entered into a convertible loan in the amount of $30,000 with a member
      of the Company s Board of Directors. Under the term of this agreement, the loan
      bears interest at 1% per month and is convertible upon the option of the note
      holder into 428,571 shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $0.07
      per share. In May 2004, the Company entered into convertible loans aggregating
      $185,000 from several investors including a member of the Company s

F
          -17 

Board
      of
      Directors. Under the terms of these agreements, the loans bear interest between
      1% and 1.5% per month and are convertible upon the option of the note holder
      into an aggregate of 578,125 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase
      an aggregate of 578,125 shares of our common stock exercisable at $0.32. The
      warrants expire three years from grant. Also in March 2004, the Company entered
      into a convertible loan in the amount of $50,000. Under the terms of this
      agreement, the loan bears interest at 1% per month and is convertible upon
      the
      option of the note holder into 135,135 shares of our common stock and warrants
      to purchase 135,135 shares of our common stock at an exercisable price of $0.37
      per share. All such warrants expire three years from the date of grant.

(e)     The
      Company entered into convertible promissory notes with Anthony Pizi, the
      Company s Chief Information Officer and Mark and Carolyn Landis, who are related
      by marriage to Anthony Pizi, and Mr. Landis is the Company s Chairman of the
      Board of Directors.  

In
      April
      2004, the Company entered into a convertible loan agreement with Mr. Pizi in
      the
      amount of $100,000. Under the terms of the agreement, the loan bears interest
      at
      1% per month and is convertible upon the option of the note holder into 270,270
      shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 270,270 shares of our common
      stock exercisable at $0.37. The warrants expire in three years from the date
      of
      grant. In June 2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note
      with
      Mr. Pizi in the face amount of $112,000. Under the terms of the agreement,
      the
      loan bears interest at 1% per month and is convertible upon the option of the
      note holder into 560,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase
      560,000 shares of our common stock at $0.20 per share. Also in June 2004, Mr.
      Pizi entered into a second convertible promissory note in the face amount of
      $15,000 which bears interest at 1% per month and is convertible into 90,118
      shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 90,118 shares of our common
      stock at $0.17 per share. All such warrants expire three years from the date
      of
      grant.  

In
      March
      2004, the Company entered into a convertible loan agreement with Mark and
      Carolyn Landis, in the principal amount of $125,000. Under the terms of the
      agreement, the loan bears interest at 1% per month and is convertible upon
      the
      option of the note holder into 446,429 shares of our common stock and warrants
      to purchase 446,429 shares of our common stock exercisable at $0.28. The
      warrants expire in three years from the date of grant. In June 2004, we entered
      into a convertible loan agreement with Mark and Carolyn Landis, in the amount
      of
      $125,000. Under the terms of the agreement, the loan bears interest at 1% per
      month and also is convertible upon the option of the note holder into 781,250
      shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 781,250 shares of our common
      stock exercisable at $0.16. The warrants expire in three years from the date
      of
      grant. In October 2004, the Company entered into a convertible loan agreement
      with Mark and Carolyn Landis in the amount of $100,000. Under the terms of
      the
      agreement, the loan bears interest at 1% per month and is convertible upon
      the
      option of the note holder into 1,000,000 shares of our common stock and warrants
      to purchase 2,000,000 shares of the Company s common stock exercisable at $0.10.
      The warrants expire in three years. In November 2004, the Company entered into
      a
      convertible loan agreement with Mark and Carolyn Landis in the amount of
      $150,000. Under the terms of the agreement, the loan bears interest at 1% per
      month and is convertible upon the option of the note holder into 1,875,000
      shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 1,875,000 shares of the
      Company s common stock exercisable at $0.08. All such warrants expire three
      years from the date of grant.  

NOTE
      1    1.       INCOME
      TAXES  

A
      reconciliation of expected income tax at the statutory federal rate with the
      actual income tax provision is as follows for the years ended December 31 (in
      thousands) : 

F
          -18 

Significant
      components of the net deferred tax asset (liability) at December 31 were as
      follows:  

At
      December 31, 2005, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of
      approximately $230,926,000, which may be applied against future taxable income.
      These carryforwards will expire at various times between 2006 and 2025. A
      substantial portion of these carryforwards are restricted to future taxable
      income of certain of the Company's subsidiaries or limited by Internal Revenue
      Code Section 382. Thus, the utilization of these carryforwards cannot be
      assured. Net operating loss carryforwards include tax deductions for the
      disqualifying dispositions of incentive stock options. When the Company utilizes
      the net operating loss related to these deductions, the tax benefit will be
      reflected in additional paid-in capital and not as a reduction of tax expense.
      The total amount of these deductions included in the net operating loss
      carryforwards is $21,177,000.  

The
      undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries are not subject to
      additional foreign income taxes nor considered to be subject to U.S. income
      taxes unless remitted as dividends. The Company intends to reinvest such
      undistributed earnings indefinitely; accordingly, no provision has been made
      for
      U.S. taxes on those earnings. The determination of the amount of the
      unrecognized deferred tax liability related to the undistributed earnings is
      not
      practicable. 

The
      Company provided a full valuation allowance on the total amount of its deferred
      tax assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004 since management does not believe
      that it is more likely than not that these assets will be realized.

NOTE
      12. SENIOR CONVERTIBLE REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK  

On
      March
      19, 2003, the Company completed a $3.5 million private placement of Series
      D
      Convertible Preferred Stock ( Series D Preferred Stock ), convertible at a
      conversion ratio of $0.32 per share of common stock into an aggregate of
      11,031,250 shares of common stock. As part of the financing, the Company has
      also issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 4,158,780 shares of common
      stock at an exercise price of $0.07 per share ( Series D-1 Warrants ). On
      October 10, 2003, the Company, consistent with its obligations, also issued
      warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,665,720 shares of common stock at an
      exercise price the lesser of $0.20 per share or market price at the time of
      exercise ( Series D-2 Warrants ). The Series D-2 Warrants became exercisable on
      November 1, 2003, because the Company failed to report $6 million in gross
      revenues for the nine month period ended September 30, 2003. Both existing
      and
      new investors participated in the financing. The Company also agreed to register
      the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series D Preferred Stock and
      exercise of the warrants for resale under the Securities Act of 1933, as
      amended. Under the terms of the financing agreement, a redemption event may
      occur if any one person, entity or group shall control more than 35% of the
      voting power of the Company s capital stock. The Company allocated the proceeds
      received from the sale of the Series D Preferred Stock and warrants to the
      preferred stock and detachable warrants on a relative fair value basis,
      resulting in an allocation of $2,890,000 to the Series D Preferred Stock and
      $640,000 to the detachable warrants. Based upon the allocation of the proceeds,
      the Company determined that the effective conversion price of the Series D
      Preferred Stock was less than the fair value of the Company s common stock on
      the date of issuance. The beneficial conversion feature was recorded as a
      discount on the value of the Series D Preferred Stock and an increase in
      additional paid-in capital. Because Series D Preferred Stock was convertible
      immediately upon issuance, the Company fully amortized such beneficial
      conversion feature on the date of issuance. 

F
          -19 

As
      part
      of the financing, the Company and the lead investors have agreed to form a
      joint
      venture to exploit the Cicero technology in the Asian market. The terms of
      the
      agreement require that the Company place $1 million of the gross proceeds from
      the financing into escrow to fund the joint venture. The escrow agreement allows
      for the immediate release of funds to cover organizational costs of the joint
      venture. During the quarter ended March 31, 2003, $225,000 of escrowed funds
      was
      released. Since the joint venture was not formed and operational on or by July
      17, 2003, the lead investors have the right, but not the obligation, to require
      the Company to purchase $1 million in liquidation value of the Series D
      Preferred Stock at a 5% per annum premium, less their pro-rata share of
      expenses. On October 21, 2004, the Company received notification from the lead
      investors of their intent to redeem the escrow balance and surrender the
      equivalent amount of Series D preferred shares. This redemption was completed
      in
      November 2004.  

Another
      condition of the financing requires the Company to place an additional $1
      million of the gross proceeds into escrow, pending the execution of a definitive
      agreement with Merrill Lynch, providing for the sale of all right, title and
      interest to the Cicero technology. Since a transaction with Merrill Lynch for
      the sale of Cicero was not consummated by May 18, 2003, the lead investors
      have
      the right, but not the obligation, to require the Company to purchase $1 million
      in liquidation value of the Series D Preferred Stock at a 5% per annum premium.
      In addition, the Company and the lead investor agreed to extend the escrow
      release provisions until the end of July 2003 when all remaining escrow monies
      were released to the Company. 

NOTE
      1    3.       STOCKHOLDERS 
      EQUITY  

Common
      Stock   : 

In
      January 2004, the Company completed a common stock financing round wherein
      it
      raised $1,247,000 of capital from several new investors as well as certain
      investors of Critical Mass Mail, Inc. The Company sold 3,369,192 shares of
      common stock at a price of $0.37 per share. As part of the financing, the
      Company has also issued warrants to purchase 3,369,192 shares of the Company s
      common stock at an exercise price of $0.37. The warrants expire three years
      from
      the date of grant. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption
      from
      registration under Rule 506 of Regulation D and on the exemption from
      registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 for
      transactions by an issuer not involving a public offering. 

In
      October 2003, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with
      several investors wherein the Company agreed to sell 1,894,444 shares of its
      common stock and issue 473,611 warrants to purchase the Company s common stock
      at a price of $0.45 per share for a total of $853,000 in proceeds. This offering
      closed on October 15, 2003. The warrants expire in three years from the date
      of
      grant. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration
      under Rule 506 of Regulation D and on the exemption from registration provided
      by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 for transactions by an issuer
      not
      involving a public offering. 

In
      January 2002, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with
      several investors wherein the Company agreed to sell up to 3,000,000 shares
      of
      its common stock and warrants. The common stock was valued at $1.50 per share
      and warrants to purchase additional shares were issued with an exercise price
      of
      $2.75 per share. This offering closed on January 16, 2002. Of the 3,000,000
      shares, the Company sold 2,381,952 shares of common stock for a total of
      $3,574,000 and granted 476,396 warrants to purchase the Company s common stock
      at an exercise price of $2.75 per share. The warrants expire in three years
      from
      the date of grant and have a call feature that forces exercise if the Company s
      common stock exceeds $5.50 per share. These shares were issued in reliance
      upon
      the exemption from registration under Rule 506 of Regulation D and on the
      exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act
      of
      1933 for transactions by an issuer not involving a public offering. Under this
      Private Placement, the Company had agreed to certain terms and conditions that
      would trigger payments by the Company if the Company did not keep such shares
      registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In April 2003, in
      exchange for a waiver of such provisions the Company agreed to exchange the
      warrants from the January 2002 Private Placement priced at $2.50 for new
      warrants priced at $0.60 and has extended the expiration date until March 2007.
      Each participant is required to execute a waiver prior to receiving the repriced
      warrants.  

Stock
      Grants   : 

During
      2005 and 2004, no stock awards were made to employees.  

F
          -20 

Stock
      Options   : 

The
      Company maintains two stock option plans, the 1995 and 1997 Stock Incentive
      Plans, which permit the issuance of incentive and nonstatutory stock options,
      stock appreciation rights, performance shares, and restricted and unrestricted
      stock to employees, officers, directors, consultants, and advisors. In July
      2003, stockholders approved a proposal to increase the number of shares reserved
      within these plans to a combined total of 10,900,000 shares of common stock
      for
      issuance upon the exercise of awards and provide that the term of each award
      be
      determined by the Board of Directors. In December 2005, 509,250 remaining
      options under the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan expired. The Company also has a
      stock incentive plan for outside directors and the Company has set aside 120,000
      shares of common stock for issuance under this plan.  

Under
      the
      terms of the Plans, the exercise price of the incentive stock options may not
      be
      less than the fair market value of the stock on the date of the award and the
      options are exercisable for a period not to exceed ten years from date of grant.
      Stock appreciation rights entitle the recipients to receive the excess of the
      fair market value of the Company's stock on the exercise date, as determined
      by
      the Board of Directors, over the fair market value on the date of grant.
      Performance shares entitle recipients to acquire Company stock upon the
      attainment of specific performance goals set by the Board of Directors.
      Restricted stock entitles recipients to acquire Company stock subject to the
      right of the Company to repurchase the shares in the event conditions specified
      by the Board are not satisfied prior to the end of the restriction period.
      The
      Board may also grant unrestricted stock to participants at a cost not less
      than
      85% of fair market value on the date of sale. Options granted vest at varying
      periods up to five years and expire in ten years.  

Activity
      for stock options issued under these plans for the fiscal years ending December
      31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was as follows: 

The
      weighted average grant date fair value of options issued during the years ended
      December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 was equal to $0.09, $0.26, and $0.24 per
      share, respectively. There were no option grants issued below fair market value
      during 2005, 2004 or 2003.  

At
      December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, options to purchase approximately 5,237,432,
      4,775,040, and 2,770,126 shares of common stock were exercisable, respectively,
      pursuant to the plans at prices ranging from $0.12 to $39.32. The following
      table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31,
      2005:  

F
          -21 

Preferred
      Stock   : 

In
      connection with the sale of Series D Preferred Stock, the holders of the
      Company s Series A3 Preferred Stock and Series B3 Preferred Stock (collectively,
      the  Existing Preferred Stockholders ), entered into an agreement whereby the
      Existing Preferred Stockholders have agreed to waive certain applicable price
      protection anti-dilution provisions. Under the terms of the waiver agreement,
      the Company is also permitted to issue equity securities representing aggregate
      proceeds of up to an additional $4.9 million following the sale of the Series
      D
      Preferred Stock. Additionally, the Existing Preferred Stockholders have also
      agreed to a limited lock-up restricting their ability to sell common stock
      issuable upon conversion of their preferred stock and warrants and to waive
      the
      accrual of any dividends that may otherwise be payable as a result of the
      Company s delisting from Nasdaq. As consideration for the waiver agreement, the
      Company has agreed to issue on a pro rata basis up to 1,000 warrants to all
      the
      Existing Preferred Stockholders on a pro rata basis at such time and from time
      to time as the Company closes financing transactions that represent proceeds
      in
      excess of $2.9 million, excluding the proceeds from the Series D Preferred
      Stock
      transaction. Such warrants will have an exercise price that is the greater
      of
      $0.40 or the same exercise price as the exercise price of the warrant, or equity
      security, that the Company issues in connection with the Company s financing or
      loan transaction that exceeds the $2.9 million threshold. 

On
      August
      14, 2002, the Company completed a $1.6 million private placement of Series
      C
      Convertible Preferred Stock ( Series C Preferred Stock ), convertible at a
      conversion ratio of $0.38 per share of common stock into an aggregate of
      4,184,211 shares of common stock. As part of the financing, the Company has
      also
      issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,046,053 shares of common stock
      at
      an exercise price of $0.38 per share. As consideration for the $1.6 million
      private placement, the Company received approximately $1.4 million in cash
      and
      allowed certain debt holders to convert approximately $150,000 of debt and
      $50,000 accounts payable to equity. The Chief Information Officer of the
      Company, Anthony Pizi, converted $150,000 of debt owed to him into shares of
      Series C Preferred Stock and warrants. Both existing and new investors
      participated in the financing. The Company also agreed to register the common
      stock issuable upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock and exercise
      of
      the warrants for resale under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The
      Company allocated the proceeds received from the sale of the Series C Preferred
      Stock and warrants to the preferred stock and the detachable warrants on a
      relative fair value basis, resulting in the allocation $1,271,000 to the Series
      C Preferred Stock and $329,000 to the detachable warrants. Based on the
      allocation of the proceeds, the Company determined that the effective conversion
      price of the Series C Preferred Stock was less than the fair value of the
      Company s common stock on the date of issuance. As a result, the Company
      recorded a beneficial conversion feature in the amount of $329,000 based on
      the
      difference between the fair market value of the Company s common stock on the
      closing date of the transaction and the effective conversion price of the Series
      C Preferred Stock. The beneficial conversion feature was recorded as a discount
      on the value of the Series C Preferred Stock and an increase in additional
      paid-in capital. Because the Series C Preferred Stock was convertible
      immediately upon issuance, the Company fully amortized such beneficial
      conversion feature on the date of issuance   .  

F
          -22 

In
      connection with the sale of Series C Preferred Stock, the Company agreed with
      the existing holders of its Series A1 Convertible Preferred Stock (the  Series
      A1 Preferred Stock ) and the Series B1 Convertible Preferred Stock (the  Series
      B1 Preferred Stock ), in exchange for their waiver of certain anti-dilution
      provisions, to reprice an aggregate of 1,801,022 warrants to purchase common
      stock from an exercise price of $1.77 to $0.38. The Company entered into an
      Exchange Agreement with such holders providing for the issuance of 11,570 shares
      of Series A2 Convertible Preferred Stock ( Series A2 Preferred Stock ) and
      30,000 Series B2 Convertible Preferred Stock ( Series B2 Preferred Stock ),
      respectively. Series A2 Preferred Stock and Series B2 Preferred Stock are
      convertible into an aggregate of 1,388,456 and 2,394,063 shares of the Company s
      common stock at $8.33 and $12.53 per share, respectively. The exchange is being
      undertaken in consideration of the temporary release of the anti-dilution
      provisions of the Series A1 Preferred Stockholders and Series B1 Preferred
      Stockholders. Based on a valuation performed by an independent valuation firm,
      the Company recorded a deemed dividend of $293,000, to reflect the increase
      in
      the fair value of the preferred stock and warrants as a result of the exchange.
      (See  Stock Warrants  for fair value assumptions.) The dividend increased the
      fair value of the warrant liability. As of December 31, 2005, no warrants had
      been exercised. 

On
      October 25, 2002, the Company effected an exchange of all of our outstanding
      shares of Series A2 Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock ( Series A2 Preferred
      Stock ) and Series B2 Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock ( Series B2
      Preferred Stock ) and related warrants for an equal number of shares of newly
      created Series A3 Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock ( Series A3 Preferred
      Stock ) and Series B3 Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock ( Series B3
      Preferred Stock ) and related warrants. This exchange was made to correct a
      deficiency in the conversion price from the prior exchange of Series A1 and
      B1
      Preferred Stock and related warrants for Series A2 and B2 Preferred Stock and
      related warrants on August 29, 2002. The conversion price for the Series A3
      Preferred Stock and the conversion price for the Series B3 Preferred Stock
      remain the same as the previously issued Series A1 and A2 Preferred Stock and
      Series B1 and B2 Preferred Stock, at $8.33 and $12.53, respectively. The
      exercise price for the aggregate 753,640 warrants relating to the Series A3
      Preferred Stock ( Series A3 Warrants ) was increased from $0.38 to $0.40 per
      share which is a reduction from the $1.77 exercise price of the warrants
      relating to the Series A1 Preferred Stock. The exercise price for the aggregate
      1,047,382 warrants relating to the Series B3 Preferred Stock ( Series B3
      Warrants ) was increased from $0.38 to $0.40 per share which is a reduction from
      the $1.77 exercise price of the warrants relating to the Series B1 Preferred
      Stock. The adjusted exercise price was based on the closing price of the
      Company s Series C Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock and warrants on August
      14, 2002, plus $0.02, to reflect accurate current market value according to
      relevant Nasdaq rules. This adjustment was made as part of the agreement under
      which the holders of the Company s Preferred Stock agreed to waive their
      price-protection anti-dilution protections to allow the Company to issue the
      Series C Preferred Stock and warrants without triggering the price-protection
      anti-dilution provisions and excessively diluting its common stock. The Company
      may cause the redemption of the Series A3 Preferred Stock warrants and the
      Series B3 Preferred Stock warrants for $.0001 at any time if the closing price
      of the Company s common stock over 20 consecutive trading days is greater than
      $5.00 and $7.50 per share, respectively. The holders of the Series A3 and Series
      B3 Warrants may cause the warrants to be redeemed for cash at the difference
      between the exercise price and the fair market value immediately preceding
      a
      redemption event as defined in the contract. As such, the fair value of the
      warrants at issuance has been classified as a warrant liability in accordance
      with EITF 00-19,  Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to,
      and Potentially Settled in a Company s Own Stock . As of December 31, 2005, no
      warrants have been exercised and the fair value of the liability is
      $0. 

Under
      the
      terms of the agreement, the Company is authorized to issue equity securities
      in
      a single or series of financing transactions representing aggregate gross
      proceeds to the Company of approximately $5 million, or up to an aggregate
      17,500 shares of common stock, without triggering the price-protection
      anti-dilution provisions in the Series A3 Preferred Stock and B3 Preferred
      Stock
      and related warrants. In exchange for the waiver of these price-protection
      anti-dilution provisions, the Company repriced the warrants as described above
      and have agreed to issue on a pro rata basis up to 4,600 warrants to the holders
      of Series A3 Preferred Stock and Series B3 Preferred Stock at such time and
      from
      time to time as the Company closes subsequent financing transactions up to
      the
      $5 million issuance cap or the 17,500 share issuance cap. As a result of the
      Series C Preferred Stock financing, which represented approximately $1.6 million
      of the Company s $5 million in allowable equity issuances, the Company is
      obligated to issue an aggregate of 1,462,801 warrants at an exercise price
      of
      $0.40 per share to the existing preferred stockholders. The warrants were issued
      on December 31, 2002 and had a fair value of $373,000, which was recorded as
      a
      dividend to, Preferred stockholders. As a result of the Series D preferred
      Stock
      financing which represented approximately $3.5 million against the allowable
      equity issuances, the Company was obligated to issue an aggregate of 3,048,782
      warrants at an exercise price of $0.40 per share to the existing Series A3
      and
      Series B3 preferred shareholders. The warrants were issued on October 8, 2003
      and had a fair value of $1,062,000, which was recorded as a deemed dividend
      to
      preferred stockholders. Additionally, the Company has agreed to issue a warrant
      to purchase common stock to the existing preferred stockholders on a pro rata
      basis for each warrant to purchase common stock that the Company issues to
      a
      third-party lender in connection with the closing of a qualified loan
      transaction. The above referenced warrants will have the same  

F
          -23 

exercise
      price as the exercise price of the warrant, or equity security, that the Company
      issues in connection with the Company s subsequent financing or loan transaction
      or $0.40, whichever is greater. These warrants are not classified as a liability
      under EITF 00-19. 

During
      2005 and 2004 there were 456 shares of preferred stock converted into 1,351,112
      shares of the Company's common stock and 4,686 shares of preferred stock
      converted into 7,037,451 shares of the Company s common stock, respectively.
      There were 1,571 shares of the Series A3 Preferred Stock and 30,000 shares
      of
      Series B3 Preferred Stock, 991 shares of Series C Preferred Stock, and 1,061
      shares of Series D Preferred Stock outstanding at December 31,
      2005. 

Stock
      Warrants:  

The
      Company values warrants based on the Black-Scholes pricing model. Warrants
      granted in 2004, 2003, and 2002 were valued using the following
      assumptions: 

During
      December 2000, the Company issued a commercial lender rights to purchase up
      to
      172,751 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $4.34
      in
      connection with a new credit facility. The warrants were valued at $775,000
      or
      $4.49 per share and were exercisable until December 28, 2004. As of the date
      of
      expiration, no warrants were exercised. 

Increase
      in Capital Stock:  

In
      July
      2003, the stockholders approved a proposal to amend the Amended and Restated
      Certificate of Incorporation to increase the aggregate number of shares of
      Common Stock that the Company is authorized to issue from 60,000,000 to
      85,000,000.  

NOTE
      1    4.       EMPLOYEE
      BENEFIT PLANS  

The
      Company sponsors one defined contribution plan for its U.S. employees - the
      Level 8 Systems 401(k). Under the terms of the Plan, the Company provides a
      50%
      matching contribution up to 6% of an employee s salary. Participants must be
      eligible Level 8 plan participants and employed at December 31 of each calendar
      year to be eligible for employer matching contributions. Matching contributions
      to the Plan included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations totaled
      $30,000, $54,000, and $14,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004,
      and 2003, respectively. On December 1, 2005 the company suspended further
      contributions to the defined contribution plan. 

The
      Company also had employee benefit plans for each of its foreign subsidiaries,
      as
      mandated by each country's laws and regulations. The Company no longer maintains
      foreign subsidiaries.  

F
          -24 

NOTE
      1    5.       SIGNIFICANT
      CUSTOMERS AND CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK  

In
      2005,
      two customers accounted for 52.4% and 13.0% of operating revenues. In 2004,
      five
      customers accounted for 24.6%, 22.4%, 13.5%, 11.8% and 11.4% of operating
      revenues. In 2003, three customers accounted for 42.1%, 19.5% and 12.7% of
      operating revenues.  

NOTE
      16.       FOREIGN
      CURRENCIES  

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, the Company had $0 of U.S. dollar equivalent cash and trade
      receivable balances denominated in foreign currencies.  

The
      Company s net foreign currency transaction losses/ (gains) were $(23,000),
      $13,000, and $31,000 for the years ended 2005, 2004, and 2003,
      respectively. 

NOTE
      17.       SEGMENT
      INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION  

The
      Company makes operating decisions and assesses performance of the Company s
      operations based on the following reportable segments: (1) Desktop Integration
      segment, and (2) Messaging and Application Engineering segment. The Company
      previously had three reportable segments but the Company has reported the
      Systems Integration segment as discontinued operations.  

The
      principal product in the Desktop Integration segment is Cicero. Cicero is a
      business integration software product that maximizes end-user productivity,
      streamlines business operations and integrates disparate systems and
      applications. 

The
      products that comprise the Messaging and Application Engineering segment are
      Ensuredmail, Geneva Integration Broker, CTRC and Star/SQL.  

Segment
      data includes a charge allocating all corporate headquarters costs to each
      of
      its operating segments based on each segment's proportionate share of expenses.
      The Company evaluates the performance of its segments and allocates resources
      to
      them based on earnings (loss) before interest and other income/(expense), taxes,
      in-process research and development, and restructuring.  

The
      table
      below presents information about reported segments for the twelve months ended
      December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands):  

F
          -25 

A
      reconciliation of segment operating expenses to total operating expense follows
      (in thousands): 

A
      reconciliation of total segment profitability to loss before income taxes for
      the fiscal years ended December 31(in thousands): 

The
      following table presents a summary of long-lived assets by segment as of
      December 31 (in thousands): 

The
      following table presents a summary of revenue by geographic region for the
      years
      ended December 31(in thousands): 

Presentation
      of revenue by region is based on the country in which the customer is domiciled.
      As of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, all of the long-lived assets of the
      Company are located in the United States. The Company reimburses the Company s
      foreign subsidiaries for their costs plus an appropriate mark-up for profit.
      Intercompany profits and losses are eliminated in consolidation. 

NOTE
      1    8.       RELATED
      PARTY INFORMATION   

Liraz
      Systems Ltd. guarantees certain debt obligations of the Company. In November
      2005, the Company and Liraz agreed to extend the guarantee and with the approval
      of the lender, agreed to extend the maturity of the debt obligation until
      October 30, 2006. The Company issued 2,400,000 shares of common stock and
      granted a warrant to purchase an additional 3,600,000 shares of our common
      stock
      at an exercise price of $0.002 per share to Liraz in exchange for this debt
      extension. In 2004, the  

F
          -26 

Company
      and Liraz also agreed to extend the guarantee and maturity of the debt
      obligation until November 2005. The Company agreed to issue Liraz 3,942,000
      shares of stock for that extension. (See Note 10.)  

From
      time
      to time during 2005 and 2004, the Company entered into short term notes payable
      with Anthony Pizi, the Company s former Chief Executive Officer and current
      Chief Information Officer. The Notes bear interest at 1% per month and are
      unsecured. At December 31, 2005, the Company was indebted to Mr. Pizi in the
      amount of $9,000.  

Convertible
      Promissory Notes:   
      Directors and executive officers made the following loans to the Company for
      convertible promissory notes:   On
      April
      12, 2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Mr. Pizi.
      The note, in the face amount of $100,000, bears interest at 1% per month and
      is
      convertible into common stock of the Company at a conversion rate of $0.37
      per
      share. In addition, Mr. Pizi was granted 270,270 warrants to purchase the
      Company s common stock at $0.37 per share.  

In
      June
      2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Mr. Pizi.
        The
      note,
      in the face amount of $112,000, bears interest at 1% per month and is
      convertible into 560,000 shares of the Company s common stock and warrants to
      purchase 560,000 shares of our common stock at $0.20 per share. Also in June
      2004, Mr. Pizi entered into a second convertible promissory note in the face
      amount of $15,000 which is convertible into 90,118 shares of the Company s
      common stock and warrants to purchase 90,118 shares of the Company s common
      stock at $0.17 per share.  

In
      March
      2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Mr. and Mrs.
      Mark Landis in the amount of $125,000. Mr. Landis is the Company s Chairman of
      the Board and Mr. and Mrs. Landis   are
      parents-in-law to Mr. Pizi, the Company s Chief Information Officer.
  Under
      the
      terms of the note, the loan bears interest at 1% per month, and is convertible
      into 446,429 shares of Level 8 common stock and warrants to purchase 446,429
      shares of Level 8 common stock exercisable at $0.28 per share.  

In
      June
      2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Mr. and Mrs.
      Landis in the amount of $125  ,000  .
      Under
      the terms of the note, the loan bears interest at 1% per month and is
      convertible into 781,250 shares of Level 8 common stock and warrants to purchase
      781,250 shares of Level 8 common stock exercisable at $0.16   per
      share  .

In
      October 2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Mr.
      and Mrs. Landis in the amount of $100  ,000  .
      Under
      the terms of the agreement, the loan bears interest at 1% per month and is
      convertible into 1,000,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase
      2,000,000 shares of the Company s common stock exercisable at $0.10   per
      share  .

In
      November 2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with
      Mark
      and Carolyn Landis, in the amount of $150  ,000  .
      Under
      the terms of the agreement, the loan bears interest at 1% per month and is
      convertible into 1,875,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase
      1,875,000 shares of the Company s common stock exercisable at $0.08   per
      share  .

In
      June
      2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Fredric Mack,
      a former director of Level 8, in the amount of $125,000. Under the terms of
      the
      note, the loan bears interest at 1% per month, and is convertible into 390,625
      shares of Level 8 common stock and warrants to purchase 390,625 shares of Level
      8 common stock exercisable at $0.32 per share.  

In
      April
      2005, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Bruce Miller,
      a director of Level 8, in the amount of $30,000. Under the terms of the note,
      the loan bears interest at 1% per month and is convertible into 428,571 shares
      of Level 8 common stock. 

In
      July
      2004, the Company entered into a convertible promissory note with Nicholas
      Hatalski, who until July 22, 2005 (during the period when the terms of the
      recapitalization merger were being negotiated and at the time of approval of
      the
      recapitalization merger by our board of directors), was a director of Level
      8,
      in the amount of $25,000. Under the terms of the note, the loan bears interest
      at 1.5% per month and is convertible into 78,125 shares of Level 8 common stock
      and warrants to purchase 78,125 shares of Level 8 common stock exercisable
      at
      $0.32 per share.  

All
      of
      such warrants expire three years from date of grant. 

F
          -27 

Senior
      Reorganization    Notes.
      From March 2004 to April 2005, directors and executive officers made the
      following loans to us for Senior Reorganization Notes: Mr. Pizi holds $423,333
      of Senior Reorganization Notes, which may be converted into warrants to purchase
      an additional 57,165,993 shares of Level 8 common stock at a purchase price
      of
      $0.002 per share.      

Mr.
      Landis holds $327,860 of Senior Reorganization Notes, which may be converted
      into warrants to purchase an additional 44,234,523 shares of Level 8 common
      stock at an exercise price of $0.002 per share.  

Mr.
      Mack
      holds, together with his affiliates, $88,122 of Senior Reorganization Notes,
      which may be converted into warrants to purchase an additional 44,234,523 shares
      of Level 8 common stock at a purchase price of $0.002 per share.  

Mr.
      Miller holds, together with his affiliates, $77,706 of Senior Reorganization
      Notes, which may be converted into warrants to purchase an additional 11,459,727
      shares of Level 8 common stock at a purchase price of $0.002.  

John
      Broderick, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Level 8,
      holds
      $2,300 of Senior Reorganization Notes, which may be converted into warrants
      to
      purchase 333,333 shares of Level 8 common stock at a purchase price of $0.002
      per share, and options to purchase 1,099,200 shares of common stock under the
      Level 8 stock option plan that will convert into options to purchase Cicero
      common stock.  

Such
      warrants are only issuable upon approval of the recapitalization merger, and
      are
      to be automatically exercised in connection with the consummation of the
      recapitalization merger.  

Convertible
      Bridge Notes   .
      From
      July to December 2005, directors and executive officers made the following
      loans
      to the Company for Convertible Bridge Notes:  

Mr.
      Pizi
      holds $85,000 of Convertible Bridge Notes which bear interest at 10% and mature
      on September 15, 2005. Upon consummation of the recapitalization merger, these
      notes will automatically convert into 3,400,000 shares of Cicero common stock.

Mr.
      Landis holds $213,000 of Convertible Bridge Notes as of December 31, 2005,
      which
      bear interest at 10% and mature on September 15, 2005. Upon consummation of
      the
      recapitalization merger, these notes will automatically convert into 8,520,000
      shares of Cicero common stock.  

Mr.
      Mack
      holds, together with his affiliates, $74,000 of Convertible Bridge Notes which
      bear interest at 10% and mature on September 15, 2005. Upon consummation of
      the
      recapitalization merger, these notes will automatically convert into 2,960,000
      shares of Cicero common stock.  

Mr.
      Miller holds, together with his affiliates, $90,000 of Convertible Bridge Notes
      which bear interest at 10% and mature on September 15, 2005. Upon consummation
      of the recapitalization merger, these notes will automatically convert into
      3,600,000 shares of Cicero common stock.  

Bruce
      Hasenyager, a member of our Board of Directors, holds $4,061 of Convertible
      Bridge Notes which bear interest at 10% and mature on September 15, 2005. Upon
      consummation of the recapitalization merger, these notes will automatically
      convert into 162,425 shares of Cicero common stock. 

Bruce
      Percelay, a member of our Board of Directors, holds $100,000 of Convertible
      Bridge Notes which bear interest at 10% and mature on December 15, 2005. Upon
      consummation of the recapitalization merger, these notes will automatically
      convert into 4,000,000 shares of Cicero common stock. 

NOTE
      19.       RESTRUCTURING
      CHARGES  

As
      part
      of the Company s plan to focus on the emerging desktop integration marketplace
      with its new Cicero product, the Company completed substantial restructurings
      in
      2002. At December 31, 2002, the Company s accrual for restructuring was
      $772,000, which was primarily comprised of excess facility costs. As more fully
      discussed in Note 21 Contingencies, subsequent to September 30, 2003, the
      Company settled litigation relating to these excess facilities. Accordingly,
      the
      Company has reversed the restructuring balance, as of September 30, 2003. Under
      the terms of the settlement agreement, the Company agreed to assign the note
      receivable from the sale of Geneva to EM Software Solutions, Inc., with recourse
      equal to  

F
          -28 

the
      unpaid portion of the note receivable should the note obligor, EM Software
      Solutions, Inc., default on future payments. The current unpaid principal
      portion of the note receivable assigned is approximately $247,000 and matures
      December 2007. The Company assessed the probability of liability under the
      recourse provisions using a probability weighted cash flow analysis and has
      recognized a long-term liability in the amount of $131,000. 

NOTE
      20.       COMMITMENTS  

Lease
      Commitments: The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under various
      operating leases. Future minimum lease commitments on operating leases that
      have
      initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year as of
      December 31, 2005 were as follows (in thousands):  

Rent
      expense for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $122,000,
      $197,000, and $586,000, respectively. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the
      Company had no sublease arrangements. Sublease income for the year ended
      December 31, 2003 was $241,000.  

Royalty
      Commitments: The Company is obligated under a royalty sharing agreement with
      Merrill Lynch to pay a royalty of 3% of the sales price for each sale of Cicero
      or related maintenance services. The royalties over the life of the agreement
      are not payable in excess of $20 million.  

NOTE
      21.       CONTINGENCIES     

Various
      lawsuits and claims have been brought against us in the normal course of our
      business. In January 2003, an action was brought against us in the Circuit
      Court
      of Loudon County, Virginia, for a breach of a real estate lease. The case was
      settled in August 2003. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we agreed
      to assign a note receivable with recourse equal to the unpaid portion of the
      note should the note obligor default on future payments. The unpaid balance
      of
      the note was $545,000 and it matures in December 2007. We assessed the
      probability of liability under the recourse provisions using a weighted
      probability cash flow analysis and have recognized a long-term liability in
      the
      amount of $131,000.  

In
      October 2003, we were served with a summons and complaint in Superior Court
      of
      North Carolina regarding unpaid invoices for services rendered by one of our
      subcontractors. The amount in dispute was approximately $200,000 and is included
      in accounts payable. Subsequent to March 31, 2004, we settled this litigation.
      Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we agreed to pay a total of
      $189,000 plus interest over a 19-month period ending November 15, 2005. The
      Company is in the process of negotiating a series of payments for the remaining
      liability of approximately $80,000. 

In
      March
      2004, we were served with a summons and complaint in Superior Court of North
      Carolina regarding a security deposit for a sublease in Virginia. The amount
      in
      dispute is approximately $247,000. In October 2004, we reached a settlement
      agreement wherein we agreed to pay $160,000 over a 24-month period ending
      October 2006. 

In
      August
      2004, we were notified that we were in default under an existing lease agreement
      for office facilities in Princeton, New Jersey. The amount of the default is
      approximately $65,000. Under the terms of the lease agreement, we may be liable
      for future rents should the space remain vacant. We have reached a settlement
      agreement with the landlord which calls for a total payment of $200,000, in
      accounts payable, over a 20-month period ending July 2006.  

In
      April
      2005, we were notified that Critical Mass Mail, Inc had filed a claim against
      us
      for failure to pay certain liabilities under an Asset Purchase Agreement dated
      January 9, 2004. We in turn filed that Critical Mass Mail, Inc, failed to
      deliver certain assets and other documents under the same Asset purchase
      agreement. We had already reserved the potential liability under the Agreement
      as part of the asset purchase accounting. On March 1, 2006, Critical Mass Mail
      amended their complaint and is seeking damages of approximately $600,000 for
      our
      failure to timely register the underlying securities issued in the Asset
      Purchase. We believe that the probability of an unfavorable outcome is remote
      and accordingly, we have not reserved for this contingency. 

F
          -29 

Under
      the
      indemnification clause of the Company s standard reseller agreements and
      software license agreements, the Company agrees to defend the reseller/licensee
      against third party claims asserting infringement by the Company s products of
      certain intellectual property rights, which may include patents, copyrights,
      trademarks or trade secrets, and to pay any judgments entered on such claims
      against the reseller/licensee.  

NOTE
      22.        SELECTED
      QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)  

NOTE
      23.       SUBSEQUENT
      EVENTS  

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, the Company has raised a total of $1,760,000 from the
      Convertible Bridge Notes. Since then, the Company has raised an additional
      $275,000. If the merger proposal is not approved, the Notes will immediately
      become due and payable. The Company filed its preliminary Form S-4 with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission on February 15, 2005 and its amendment to
      the
      Form on December 5, 2005. The Company will file an additional amendment to
      the
      Forms S-4 in March 2006. 

On
      March
      7, 2006, Mr. Fredric Mack resigned from the Company s Board of Directors. Mr.
      Mack s resignation did not involve a disagreement with Level 8 Systems, Inc. on
      any matter relating to the Company s operations, policies, or
      practices. 

<EX-4.1>
 3
 termsheet.htm
 FORM OF TERM SHEET

Form of Term Sheet

PRIVATE
      CONSORTIUM OF QUALIFIED INVESTORS  

A
      M E N D E D C O N F I D E N T I A L T E R M S H E E T   

December
      15, 2005  

This
      Term Sheet is an expression of intention only and, except as expressly set
      forth
      below, is not to be construed as a binding agreement.  

Promissory
                Note with Conversion Feature  

Issuer:  

Level
                8 Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ) 

Investors:  

Private
                Consortium of Qualified Investors 

Investment
                Amount:  

Up
                to $2,000,000 

Securities
                Offered:  

$450,000
                minimum principal amount of Senior Notes (the  Notes ) to be issued in
                integral amounts of $1,000.  

Each
                holder of these Senior Promissory Notes upon the approval of the
                Plan of
                Merger defined below will be subject to a mandatory conversion of
                the
                principal amount of the note into shares of Cicero, Inc. common stock
                at a
                conversion rate of $0.037. (Equivalent of $0.00185 for Level 8 stock)
                Based upon a $1,000,000 investment, holders of these Senior Notes
                will own
                approximately 40% ownership of Cicero, Inc. post
                merger. 

Coupon:  

10%
                per annum on the principal amount, payable in arrears in cash on
                the
                maturity date. 

Maturity
                Date:  

Consummation
                of the Merger (as defined below), but no later than    January
                15, 2006  

At
                maturity, the principal balance of the Notes, together with all accrued
                and unpaid interest, will become due and payable, subject to the
                Optional
                Exchange described below.  

Events
                of Default:  

Standard
                events of default for debt instruments will be included in the
                Notes. 

Ranking:  

The
                Notes will constitute senior obligations of the Company. While the
                Notes
                are outstanding, the Company will not be permitted to incur indebtedness
                ranking senior with the Notes, except for such senior indebtedness
                of the
                Company, if any, as is outstanding on the initial closing date of
                the sale
                of the Notes, including Notes from the initial Note and Warrant offering
                in the amount of $2,580,000. 

Protective
                Provisions:  

The
                Notes will contain customary affirmative and negative covenants of
                the
                Company. 

Allocation
                and Closings:  

The
                Notes will be offered to the Investors for purchase at one or more
                closings.  

The
                initial closing of the sale of the Notes will occur not earlier than
                10
                days after the commencement of the offering. 

Mandatory
                Exchange:  

Upon
                consummation of the Merger and simultaneously therewith, all of the
                Notes
                held by each Investor will be automatically exchanged for and in
                consideration of (without the payment of additional consideration)
                the
                shares issuable upon exercise of the conversion right of each investor s
                promissory note to the extent of the principal and accrued but unpaid
                interest then due and owing on the Notes.

1 

Use
                of Proceeds:  

The
                Company will use the proceeds from this offering to finance its
                operations. The proceeds would   not  
                be
                used to repay any short-term or long term debt
                instruments. 

Other
                Conditions   

1.
                The Company will work with the Consortium to effect the proposed
                merger no
                later than September 15, 2005. To that end, the Company agrees to
                place as
                a retainer the sum of $50,000 with a selected legal firm of its choice
                to
                facilitate the remaining filings and approvals necessary to conclude
                the
                merger. 

2.
                The Company will cause a change in management including the
                following: 

a)
                the immediate resignation as Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer
                (CEO)
                by Anthony Pizi, who will retain the role of Chief Information Officer
                (CIO). Mr. Pizi agrees that his resignation will not be as a result
                of a
                change in control of the Company. 

b)
                the appointment by John Broderick as  Acting CEO , in addition to his
                current duties as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Chief Operating
                Officer (COO). 

c)
                as soon as reasonably practicable, the Company will launch a search
                for a
                highly qualified software executive with extensive sales and marketing
                experience to assume the permanent position of CEO. 

3.
                The Consortium will have the immediate right to elect a majority
                of the
                Board of Directors. The Consortium will also obtain the resignations
                of
                Nicholas Hatalski and Ken Nielsen and the appointment of Bruce Miller,
                Fredric Mack, John Broderick and Mark Landis to the Board of Directors,
                leaving a total of eight directors. 

4.
                The Consortium will have the immediate right to create an Advisory
                Board
                to assist in the development of policy and strategy of the Company
                for
                implementation by the Board of Directors and management. 

5.
                The Company will develop a program for reducing cash flow and/or
                operating
                expenses by approximately twenty percent (20%) from current
                levels. 

6.
                The Consortium will create an equity set-aside for incenting management
                of
                no less than 10% of the total shares outstanding on a fully diluted
                basis
                after completion of this contemplated financing and the subsequent
                merger. 

7.
                The Company and the Consortium agree that any future financings that
                may
                be required prior to the effectiveness of the proposed merger must
                be
                approved by a majority of those investors that participate in this
                current
                round. Investors voting percentages will be equal to their percentage
                of
                investment in the total offering. 

8.
                Should the proposed merger not be declared effective by October 31,
                2005,
                the Company agrees that the pre money valuation of Level 8 Systems
                of
                $1,500,000 be lowered to $1,250,000. Holders of Senior Promissory
                Notes
                from this offering would then convert into shares of Cicero, Inc.
                common
                stock at a conversion rate of $0.0314. 

9.
                Should the proposed merger not be declared effective by December
                31, 2005,
                the Company agrees that the pre money valuation of Level 8 Systems
                of
                $1,250,000 (as adjusted above) be lowered to $1,000,000. Holders
                of Senior
                Promissory Notes from this offering would then convert into shares
                of
                Cicero, Inc. common stock at a conversion rate of
                $0.025. 

Deposit  

Upon
                acceptance of this term sheet by the Company, Consortium will immediately
                deposit a minimum of $45,000, representing 10% of the minimum pledged
                to
                be made immediately available for working capital
                purposes. 

Expiration
                of Offer  

This
                offer expires on January 15, 2006 

2 

AGREED
      TO
      AND ACCEPTED THIS _________ DAY OF JULY 2005. 

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

By:
           _________________________________ 

Name:
      John Broderick 

Title:
      Chief Financial Officer 

PRIVATE
      CONSORTIUM  

By:
      ________________________________ 

        Bruce
      Miller 

By:
      ________________________________ 

        Fredric
      Mack 

By:
      ________________________________ 

        Mark
        Carolyn Landis 

3 

A
      T T A C H M E N T  

EXTENSION
      OF TERM SHEET 

FEBRUARY
      27, 2006 

On
      today s date, the Board of Directors unanimously agreed to extend terms of the
      foregoing Term Sheet to March 31, 2006 and increase the investment amount of
      same to $2,250,000.00. 

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

                    By:
      ________________________________ 

                      Name:     John
      Broderick 

                      Title:     Chief
      Financial Officer 

</EX-4.1>

<EX-4.17>
 4
 stockpurchasewarrant.htm
 FORM OF STOCK PURCHASE WARRANT

Form of Stock Purchase Warrant

THE
      SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED WITH THE SECURITIES
      AND
      EXCHANGE COMMISSION OR THE SECURITIES COMMISSION OF ANY STATE IN RELIANCE UPON
      AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED
      (THE
      "SECURITIES ACT"), AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD EXCEPT PURSUANT
      TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR PURSUANT
      TO
      AN AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE
      REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH
      APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS AS EVIDENCED BY A LEGAL OPINION OF COUNSEL
      TO
      THE TRANSFEROR TO SUCH EFFECT, THE SUBSTANCE OF WHICH SHALL BE REASONABLY
      ACCEPTABLE TO THE COMPANY.  

_____________,
      2005  

       3,600,000
      shares                                                                                                                           Warrant
      No. 2005 

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

       STOCK
      PURCHASE WARRANT  

THIS
      IS
      TO CERTIFY THAT    LIRAZ
      SYSTEMS, LTD.   
      (the
      "   Holder    ),
      or
      its registered assigns, is entitled, at any time prior to the Expiration Date
      (as hereinafter defined), to purchase from LEVEL 8 SYSTEMS, INC., a Delaware
      corporation (the     Company    )
      (the
      Company and the Holder are hereinafter referred to collectively as the
    Parties    
and
      individually as a     Party    ),
         3,600,000
         shares
      of
      Common Stock (as hereinafter defined and subject to adjustment as provided
      herein), in whole or in part, at a purchase price of $0.002 per share (subject
      to adjustment as provided herein), on the terms and conditions and pursuant
      to
      the provisions hereinafter set forth. 

1.      DEFINITIONS  

As
      used
      in this Warrant, the following terms have the respective meanings set forth
      below: 

Additional
      Shares of Common Stock    
shall
      mean all shares of Common Stock issued by the Company after the Closing, other
      than Warrant Stock. 

Business
      Day    
shall
      mean any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday or a day on which banks are
      required or permitted to be closed in the State of New York. 

Closing
      Date    
shall
      have the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement. 

Commission    
shall
      mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other Federal agency then
      administering the Securities Act and other Federal securities laws. 

Common
      Stock    
shall
      mean (except where the context otherwise indicates) the common stock, $.001
      par
      value, of the Company as constituted on the Closing Date, and any capital stock
      into which such Common Stock may thereafter be changed, and shall also include
      (i) capital stock of the Company of any other class (regardless of how
      denominated) issued to the holders of shares of Common Stock upon any
      reclassification thereof which is also not preferred as to dividends or assets
      over any other class of stock of the Company and which is not subject to
      redemption and (ii) shares of common stock of any successor or acquiring
      corporation (as defined in Section 4.4) received by or distributed to the
      holders of Common Stock of the Company in the circumstances contemplated by
      Section 4.4. 

Convertible
      Securities    
shall
      mean evidences of indebtedness, shares of stock or other securities which are
      convertible into or exchangeable, with or without payment of additional
      consideration in cash or property, for Additional Shares of Common Stock, either
      immediately or upon the occurrence of a specified date or a specified
      event. 

Current
      Market Price    
shall
      mean, in respect of any share of Common Stock on any date herein specified
      (i)
      the closing sales price on such day on the NASDAQ National Market System
      ( NASDAQ ) or the principal stock exchange on which such Common Stock is listed
      or admitted to trading, (ii) if no sale takes place on such day on NASDAQ or
      any
      such exchange, the average of the last reported closing bid and asked prices
      on
      such day as officially quoted on NASDAQ or any such exchange, (iii) if the
      Common Stock is not then listed or admitted to trading on NASDAQ or any stock
      exchange, the average of the last reported closing bid and asked prices on
      such
      day in the over-the-counter market, as furnished by the National Association
      of
      Securities Dealers Automatic Quotation System or the National Quotation Bureau,
      Inc., (iv) if neither such corporation at the time is engaged in the business
      of
      reporting such prices, as furnished by any similar firm then engaged in such
      business, or (v) if there is no such firm, as furnished by any member of the
      NASD selected mutually by the Holder and the Company or, if they cannot agree
      upon such selection, as selected by two such members of the NASD, one of which
      shall be selected by the Holder and one of which shall be selected by the
      Company. 

Current
      Warrant Price    
shall
      mean, in respect of a share of Common Stock at any date herein specified, $0.002
      per share of Common Stock as of the date hereof, subject to adjustment as
      provided herein. 

"   Date
      of Exercise   "
      shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b). 

Exchange
      Act    
shall
      mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any similar Federal
      statute, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, all as
      the
      same shall be in effect from time to time. 

Exercise
      Period    
shall
      mean the period during which this Warrant is exercisable pursuant to Section
      2.1. 

Expiration
      Date    
shall
      mean November 1, 2008. 

Holder    
shall
      mean the Person in whose name the Warrant set forth herein is registered on
      the
      books of the Company maintained for such purpose. 

2 

NASD    
shall
      mean the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or any successor
      corporation thereto. 

Other
      Property    
shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4. 

Outstanding    
shall
      mean, when used with reference to Common Stock, at any date as of which the
      number of shares thereof is to be determined, all issued shares of Common Stock,
      except shares then owned or held by or for the account of the Company or any
      subsidiary thereof, and shall include all shares issuable in respect of
      outstanding scrip or any certificates representing fractional interests in
      shares of Common Stock. 

Person    
shall
      mean any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
      company, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization, association,
      corporation, institution, public benefit corporation, entity or government
      (whether Federal, state, county, city, municipal or otherwise, including,
      without limitation, any instrumentality, division, agency, body or department
      thereof). 

"   Proceeding   "
      shall
      have the meaning set forth in Section 14.8. 

Recapitalization
      Merger    
      shall
      mean the merger of Level 8 Systems, Inc. into its wholly owned subsidiary
      Cicero, Inc. substantially as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
      under Form S-4/A. 

Restricted
      Common Stock    
shall
      mean shares of Common Stock which are, or which upon their issuance on the
      exercise of this Warrant would be, evidenced by a certificate bearing the
      restrictive legend set forth in the Purchase Agreement. 

Securities
      Act    
shall
      mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any similar Federal statute,
      and
      the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, all as the same shall
      be
      in effect at the time. 

"   Trading
      Day(s)   "
      shall
      mean any day on which the primary market on which such shares of Common Stock
      are listed is open for trading. 

Warrants    
shall
      mean this Warrant and all warrants issued upon transfer, division or combination
      of, or in substitution for, any thereof. All Warrants shall at all times be
      identical as to terms and conditions and date, except as to the number of shares
      of Common Stock for which they may be exercised. 

Warrant
      Price    
shall
      mean an amount equal to (i) the number of shares of Common Stock being purchased
      upon exercise of this Warrant pursuant to Section 2.1, multiplied by (ii) the
      Current Warrant Price as of the date of such exercise unless the Company waives
      any such warrant price. 

Warrant
      Stock    
shall
      mean the shares of Common Stock purchased by the holders of the Warrants upon
      the exercise thereof. 

2.
           EXERCISE
      OF WARRANT 

3 

2.1.      Manner
      of Exercise   .
      (a)
      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Warrant, upon consummation
      of
      the Recapitalization Merger (or, if earlier, the date, if any, on which the
      Company s certificate of incorporation is amended to provide for sufficient
      authorized shares to permit this Warrant to be exercised), this Warrant shall
      automatically be deemed to be exercised, without any action on the part of
      the
      Holder or the Company, and without the need to pay any exercise price..

(b)
      The
      Company shall, as promptly as practicable, and in any event within three (3)
      Business Days thereafter, issue or cause to be issued and deliver or cause
      to be
      delivered to the Holder a certificate or certificates representing the aggregate
      number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon such exercise, as
      hereinafter provided against delivery of this warrant to the Company at its
      principal office. The stock certificate or certificates so delivered shall
      be,
      to the extent possible, in such denomination or denominations as such Holder
      shall request in a separate notice and shall be registered in the name of the
      Holder or, subject to Section 8, such other name as shall be designated in
      the
      notice. This Warrant shall be deemed to have been exercised and such certificate
      or certificates shall be deemed to have been issued, and the Holder or any
      other
      Person so designated to be named therein shall be deemed to have become a holder
      of record of such shares for all purposes, as of the effective date of the
      Recapitalization Merger.  

(c)
      The
      Company's obligations to issue and deliver Warrant Stock in accordance with
      the
      terms hereof are absolute and unconditional, irrespective of any action or
      inaction by the Holder to enforce the same, any waiver or consent with respect
      to any provision hereof, the recovery of any judgment against any Person or
      any
      action to enforce the same, or any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, limitation
      or termination, or any breach or alleged breach by the Holder or any other
      Person of any obligation to the Company or any violation or alleged violation
      of
      law by the Holder or any other Person, and irrespective of any other
      circumstance which might otherwise limit such obligation of the Company to
      the
      Holder in connection with the issuance of Warrant Stock. 

(d)     The
      Warrant shares are fully earned upon issuance of this Warrant. Should the
      Recapitalization Merger not occur on or before March 1, 2006, the Company shall
      use its best efforts to take all action necessary to cause this Warrant
      automatically to be exercised as promptly as practicable. .  

2.2.      Payment
      of Taxes   .
      All
      shares of Common Stock issuable upon the exercise of this Warrant pursuant
      to
      the terms hereof shall be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and
      without any preemptive rights. The Company shall pay all expenses in connection
      with, and all taxes and other governmental charges that may be imposed with
      respect to, the issue or delivery thereof, unless such tax or charge is imposed
      by law upon the Holder or based on or measured by the income of the holder,
      in
      which case such taxes or charges shall be paid by the Holder.  
      The
      Holder or its transferee shall pay any transfer tax due and payable in respect
      of a transfer of this Warrant or the Warrant Stock to a party other than the
      Holder. 

2.4.      Continued
      Validity   .
      A
      holder of shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of this Warrant,
      in
      whole or in part (other than a holder who acquires such shares after the same
      have been publicly sold pursuant to a Registration Statement under the
      Securities Act or sold pursuant to Rule 144 thereunder), shall continue to
      be
      entitled to all rights, and subject to 

4 

all
      obligations, to which it would have been entitled or obligated, as applicable,
      as the Holder under Sections 8, 9 and 10 of this Warrant. The Company will,
      at
      the time of each exercise of this Warrant, in whole or in part, upon the request
      of the holder of the shares of Common Stock issued upon such exercise hereof,
      acknowledge in writing, in form reasonably satisfactory to such holder, its
      continuing obligation to afford to such holder all such rights;    provided   ,
         however   ,
      that if
      such holder shall fail to make any such request, such failure shall not affect
      the continuing obligation of the Company to afford to such holder all such
      rights. 

2.5
            Limitation
      on Exercise   .
      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the number of shares
      of Common Stock that may be acquired by the Holder upon any exercise of this
      Warrant (or otherwise in respect hereof) shall be limited to the extent
      necessary to insure that, following such exercise (or other issuance), the
      total
      number of shares of Common Stock then beneficially owned by such Holder and
      its
      affiliates and any other Persons whose beneficial ownership of Common Stock
      would be aggregated with the Holder's for purposes of Section 13(d) of the
      Exchange Act, does not exceed 4.999% of the total number of issued and
      outstanding shares of Common Stock (including for such purpose the shares of
      Common Stock issuable upon such exercise). For such purposes, beneficial
      ownership shall be determined in accordance with Section 13(d) of the Exchange
      Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Each delivery of
      a
      notice of exercise under Section 2.1 will constitute a representation by the
      Holder that it has evaluated the limitation set forth in this paragraph and
      determined that issuance of the full number of Warrant Shares requested in
      such
      notice of exercise is permitted under this paragraph. By written notice to
      the
      Company, the Holder may waive the provisions of this Section but (i) any such
      waiver will not be effective until the 61st day after such notice is delivered
      to the Company, and (ii) any such waiver will apply only to the Holder and
      not
      to any other holder of Warrants. 

3.
            TRANSFER;
      DIVISION AND COMBINATION  

3.1.      Transfer   .
      Subject
      to compliance with Section 11, transfer of this Warrant and all rights
      hereunder, in whole or in part, shall be registered on the books of the Company
      to be maintained for such purpose, upon surrender of this Warrant at the
      principal office of the Company specified in Section 2.1 or the office or agency
      designated by the Company pursuant to Section 9, together with a written
      assignment of this Warrant substantially in the form of    Exhibit
      A   
      hereto
      duly executed by the Holder or its agent or attorney. Upon such surrender,
      the
      Company shall, subject to Section 8, execute and deliver a new Warrant or
      Warrants in the name of the assignee or assignees and in the denomination
      specified in such instrument of assignment, and shall issue to the assignor
      a
      new Warrant evidencing the portion of this Warrant not so assigned, and this
      Warrant shall promptly be cancelled. A Warrant, if properly assigned in
      compliance with Section 8, may be exercised by a new Holder for the purchase
      of
      shares of Common Stock without having a new Warrant issued. 

3.2.      Division
      and Combination   .
      Subject
      to Section 8, this Warrant may be divided or combined with other Warrants upon
      presentation hereof at the aforesaid office or agency of the Company, together
      with a written notice specifying the names and denominations in which new
      Warrants are to be issued, signed by the Holder or its agent or attorney.
      Subject to compliance with Section 3.1 and with Section 8, as to     any
      transfer which may be involved in such division or combination, the Company
      shall execute and deliver a new Warrant or Warrants 

5 

in
      exchange for the Warrant or Warrants to be divided or combined in accordance
      with such notice. 

3.3.      Expenses   .
      The
      Company shall prepare, issue and deliver at its own expense the new Warrant
      or
      Warrants to be delivered under this Section 3. 

3.4.      Maintenance
      of Books   .
      The
      Company agrees to maintain, at its aforesaid office or agency, books for the
      registration and the registration of transfer of the Warrants. 

4.
            ADJUSTMENTS.  

The
      number of shares of Common Stock for which this Warrant is exercisable, or
      the
      price at which such shares may be purchased upon exercise of this Warrant,
      shall
      be subject to adjustment from time to time as set forth in this Section 4.
      The
      Company shall give each Holder notice of any event described below which
      requires an adjustment pursuant to this Section 4 at the time of such
      event. 

4.1.      Stock
      Dividends, Subdivisions and Combinations   .
      If at
      any time the Company shall: 

(a)     take
      a
      record of the holders of its Common Stock for the purpose of entitling them
      to
      receive a dividend payable in, or other distribution of, Additional Shares
      of
      Common Stock; 

(b)     subdivide
      its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a larger number of shares of Common
      Stock; or 

(c)     combine
      its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares of Common
      Stock; 

then  
      (i) the
      number of shares of Common Stock for which this Warrant is exercisable
      immediately after the occurrence of any such event shall be adjusted to equal
      the number of shares of Common Stock which a record holder of the same number
      of
      shares of Common Stock for which this Warrant is exercisable immediately prior
      to the occurrence of such event would own or be entitled to receive after the
      happening of such event, and (ii) the Current Warrant Price shall be adjusted
      to
      equal (A) the Current Warrant Price multiplied by the number of shares of Common
      Stock for which this Warrant is exercisable immediately prior to the adjustment
      divided by (B) the number of shares for which this Warrant is exercisable
      immediately after such adjustment. 

4.2.      Certain
      Other Distributions   .
      If at
      any time the Company shall take a record of the holders of its Common Stock
      for
      the purpose of entitling them to receive any dividend or other distribution
      of: 

(a)     cash  ; 

6 

(b)     any
      evidences of its indebtedness, any shares of its stock or any other securities
      or property of any nature whatsoever (other than cash, Convertible Securities
      or
      Additional Shares of Common Stock); or 

(c)     any
      warrants or other rights to subscribe for or purchase any evidences of its
      indebtedness, any shares of its stock or any other securities or property of
      any
      nature whatsoever (other than cash, Convertible Securities or Additional Shares
      of Common Stock), then (i) the number of shares of Common Stock for which this
      Warrant is exercisable shall be adjusted to equal the product of the number
      of
      shares of Common Stock for which this Warrant is exercisable immediately prior
      to such adjustment by a fraction (A) the numerator of which shall be the Current
      Market Price per share of Common Stock at the date of taking such record and
      (B)
      the denominator of which shall be such Current Market Price per share of Common
      Stock minus the amount allocable to one share of Common Stock of any such cash
      so distributable and of the fair value (as determined in good faith by the
      Board
      of Directors of the Company) of any and all such evidences of indebtedness,
      shares of stock, other securities or property or warrants or other subscription
      or purchase rights so distributable, and (ii) the Current Warrant Price shall
      be
      adjusted to equal (A) the Current Warrant Price multiplied by the number of
      shares of Common Stock for which this Warrant is exercisable immediately prior
      to the adjustment divided by (B) the number of shares for which this Warrant
      is
      exercisable immediately after such adjustment. A reclassification of the Common
      Stock (other than a change in par value, or from par value to no par value
      or
      from no par value to par value) into shares of Common Stock and shares of any
      other class of stock shall be deemed a distribution by the Company to the
      holders of its Common Stock of such shares of such other class of stock within
      the meaning of this Section 4.2 and, if the outstanding shares of Common Stock
      shall be changed into a larger or smaller number of shares of Common Stock
      as a
      part of such reclassification, such change shall be deemed a subdivision or
      combination, as the case may be, of the outstanding shares of Common Stock
      within the meaning of Section 4.1. 

4.3.      Other
      Provisions Applicable to Adjustments under this Section   .
      The
      following provisions shall be applicable to the making of adjustments of the
      number of shares of Common Stock for which this Warrant is exercisable and
      the
      Current Warrant Price provided for in this Section 4: 

(a)      When
      Adjustments to Be Made   .
      The
      adjustments required by this Section 4 shall be made whenever and as often
      as
      any specified event requiring an adjustment shall occur, except that any
      adjustment of the number of shares of Common Stock for which this Warrant is
      exercisable that would otherwise be required may be postponed (except in the
      case of a subdivision or combination of shares of Common Stock, as provided
      for
      in Section 4.1) up to, but not beyond the date of exercise if such adjustment
      either by itself or with other adjustments not previously made adds or subtracts
      less than 1% of the shares of Common Stock for which this Warrant is exercisable
      immediately prior to the making of such adjustment. Any adjustment representing
      a change of less than such minimum amount (except as aforesaid) which is
      postponed shall be carried forward and made as soon as such adjustment, together
      with other adjustments required by this Section 4 and not previously made,
      would
      result in a minimum adjustment or on the date of exercise. For the purpose
      of
      any adjustment, any specified event shall be deemed to have occurred at the
      close of business on the date of its occurrence. 

7 

(b)      Fractional
      Interests   .
      In
      computing adjustments under this Section 4, fractional interests in Common
      Stock
      shall be taken into account to the nearest 1/10th of a share. 

(c)      When
      Adjustment Not Required   .
      If the
      Company shall take a record of the holders of its Common Stock for the purpose
      of entitling them to receive a dividend or distribution and shall, thereafter
      and before the distribution to stockholders thereof, legally abandon its plan
      to
      pay or deliver such dividend or distribution, then thereafter no adjustment
      shall be required by reason of the taking of such record and any such adjustment
      previously made in respect thereof shall be rescinded and annulled. 

(d)      Escrow
      of Warrant Stock   .
      If
      after any property becomes distributable pursuant to this Section 4 by reason
      of
      the taking of any record of the holders of Common Stock, but prior to the
      occurrence of the event for which such record is taken, and the Holder exercises
      this Warrant, any Additional Shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise
      by
      reason of such adjustment shall be deemed the last shares of Common Stock for
      which this Warrant is exercised (notwithstanding any other provision to the
      contrary herein) and such shares or other property shall be held in escrow
      for
      the Holder by the Company to be issued to the Holder upon and to the extent
      that
      the event actually takes place, upon payment of the then Current Warrant Price.
      Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary herein, if the event for
      which such record was taken fails to occur or is rescinded, then such escrowed
      shares shall be cancelled by the Company and escrowed property
      returned. 

4.4.      Reorganization,
      Reclassification, Merger, Consolidation or Disposition of Assets   .
      In case
      the Company shall reorganize its capital, reclassify its capital stock,
      consolidate or merge with or into another corporation or other business entity
      (where the Company is not the surviving corporation or where there is a change
      in or distribution with respect to the Common Stock of the Company), or sell,
      transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all its property, assets
      or business to another corporation or other business entity and, pursuant to
      the
      terms of such reorganization, reclassification, merger, consolidation or
      disposition of assets, shares of common stock of the successor or acquiring
      corporation, or any cash, shares of stock or other securities or property of
      any
      nature whatsoever (including warrants or other subscription or purchase rights)
      in addition to or in lieu of common stock of the successor or acquiring
      corporation (    Other
      Property    ),
      are
      to be received by or distributed to the holders of Common Stock of the Company,
      then each Holder shall have the right thereafter to receive, upon exercise
      of
      such Warrant, the number of shares of common stock of the successor or acquiring
      corporation or of the Company, if it is the surviving corporation, and Other
      Property receivable upon or as a result of such reorganization,
      reclassification, merger, consolidation or disposition of assets by a holder
      of
      the number of shares of Common Stock for which this Warrant is exercisable
      immediately prior to such event provided that in the case of the
      Recapitalization Merger, the provision of Section 2.1(a) shall be applicable.
      In
      case of any such reorganization, reclassification, merger, consolidation or
      disposition of assets, at the Holder's option and request, any successor to
      the
      Company or surviving entity shall expressly assume the due and punctual
      observance and performance of each and every covenant and condition of this
      Warrant to be performed and observed by the Company and all the obligations
      and
      liabilities hereunder in order to provide for adjustments of shares of Common
      Stock for which this Warrant is exercisable which shall be as nearly equivalent
      as practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Section 4 and issue
      to
      the Holder a new warrant substantially in the form of this Warrant and
      consistent with the foregoing 

8 

provisions
      and evidencing the Holder's right to purchase the Other Property for the
      aggregate Current Market Price upon exercise thereof. For purposes of this
      Section 4.4,  common stock of the successor or acquiring corporation  shall
      include stock of such corporation of any class which is not preferred as to
      dividends or assets over any other class of stock of such corporation and which
      is not subject to redemption and shall also include any evidences of
      indebtedness, shares of stock or other securities   which
      are
      convertible into or exchangeable for any such stock, either immediately or
      upon
      the arrival of a specified date or the happening of a specified event and any
      warrants or other rights to subscribe for or purchase any such stock. The
      foregoing provisions of this Section 4.4 shall similarly apply to successive
      reorganizations, reclassifications, mergers, consolidations or disposition
      of
      assets. 

5.      NOTICES
      TO WARRANT HOLDERS  

5.1.      Notice
      of Adjustments   .
      Whenever the number of shares of Common Stock for which this Warrant is
      exercisable, or whenever the price at which a share of such Common Stock may
      be
      purchased upon exercise of the Warrants, shall be adjusted pursuant to Section
      4, the Company shall forthwith prepare a certificate to be executed by the
      chief
      financial officer of the Company setting forth, in reasonable detail, the event
      requiring the adjustment and the method by which such adjustment was calculated
      (including a description of the basis on which the Board of Directors of the
      Company determined the fair value of any evidences of indebtedness, shares
      of
      stock, other securities or property or warrants or other subscription or
      purchase rights referred to in Section 4.2) specifying the number of shares
      of
      Common Stock for which this Warrant is exercisable and (if such adjustment
      was
      made pursuant to Section 4.4) describing the number and kind of any other shares
      of stock or Other Property for which this Warrant is exercisable, and any change
      in the purchase price or prices thereof, after giving effect to such adjustment
      or change. The Company shall promptly cause a signed copy of such certificate
      to
      be delivered to each Holder in accordance with Section 12.2. The Company shall
      keep at its office or agency designated pursuant to Section 11 copies of all
      such certificates and cause the same to be available for inspection at said
      office during normal business hours by any Holder or any prospective purchaser
      of a Warrant designated by a Holder thereof. 

5.2.      Notice
      of Corporate Action   .
      If at
      any time  : 

(a)     the
      Company shall take a record of the holders of its Common Stock for the purpose
      of entitling them to receive a dividend (other than a cash dividend payable
      out
      of earnings or earned surplus legally available for the payment of dividends
      under the laws of the jurisdiction of incorporation of the Company) or other
      distribution, or any right to subscribe for or purchase any evidences of its
      indebtedness, any shares of stock of any class or any other securities or
      property, or to receive any other right; 

(b)     there
      shall be any capital reorganization of the Company, any reclassification or
      recapitalization of the capital stock of the Company or any consolidation or
      merger of the Company with, or any sale, transfer or other disposition of all
      or
      substantially all the property, assets or business of the Company to, another
      corporation (other than the Recapitalization Merger); or 

9 

(c)     there
      shall be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up
      of
      the Company; 

then,
      in
      any one or more of such cases, the Company shall give to the Holder (i) at
      least
      ten (10) days  prior written notice of the date on which a record date shall be
      selected for such dividend, distribution or right or for determining rights
      to
      vote in respect of any such reorganization, reclassification, merger,
      consolidation, sale, transfer, disposition, dissolution, liquidation or winding
      up, and (ii) in the case of any such reorganization, reclassification, merger,
      consolidation, sale, transfer, disposition, dissolution, liquidation or winding
      up, at least ten (10) days  prior written notice of the date when the same shall
      take place. Such notice in accordance with the foregoing clause also shall
      specify (A) the date on which any such record is to be taken for the purpose
      of
      such dividend, distribution or right, the date on which the holders of Common
      Stock shall be entitled to any such dividend, distribution or right, and the
      amount and character thereof, and (B) the date on which any such reorganization,
      reclassification, merger, consolidation, sale, transfer, disposition,
      dissolution, liquidation or winding up is to take place and the time, if any
      such time is to be fixed, as of which the holders of Common Stock shall be
      entitled to exchange their shares of Common Stock for securities or other
      property deliverable upon such reorganization, reclassification, merger,
      consolidation, sale, transfer, disposition, dissolution, liquidation or winding
      up. Each such written notice shall be sufficiently given if addressed to the
      Holder and delivered in accordance with Section 14.2. 

6.
       TAKING OF RECORD; STOCK AND WARRANT AND WARRANT TRANSFER
      BOOKS  

In
      the
      case of all dividends or other distributions by the Company to the holders
      of
      its Common Stock with respect to which any provision of Section 4 refers to
      the
      taking of a record of such holders, the Company will in each such case take
      such
      a record and will take such record as of the close of business on a Business
      Day. The Company will not at any time, except upon dissolution, liquidation
      or
      winding up of the Company, close its stock transfer books or Warrant transfer
      books so as to result in preventing or delaying the exercise or transfer of
      any
      Warrant. 

7.      SUPPLYING
      INFORMATION  

The
      Company shall cooperate with each Holder of a Warrant and each holder of
      Restricted Common Stock in supplying such information as may be reasonably
      necessary for such holder to complete and file any information reporting forms
      presently or hereafter required by the Commission as a condition to the
      availability of an exemption from the Securities Act for the sale of any Warrant
      or Restricted Common Stock. 

8.      LOSS
      OR MUTILATION  

Upon
      receipt by the Company from any Holder of evidence reasonably satisfactory
      to it
      of the ownership of and the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of this
      Warrant and indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it, and in case of mutilation
      upon surrender and cancellation hereof, the Company will execute and deliver
      in
      lieu hereof a new Warrant of like tenor to such Holder; 

10 

provided   ,
      in the
      case of mutilation, no indemnity shall be required if this Warrant in
      identifiable form is surrendered to the Company for cancellation. 

9.
            OFFICE
      OF COMPANY  

As
      long
      as any of the Warrants remain outstanding, the Company shall maintain an office
      or agency (which may be the principal executive offices of the Company) where
      the Warrants may be presented for exercise, registration of transfer, division
      or combination as provided in this Warrant. 

10.      FILINGS  

So
      long
      as the Company has a class of equity securities registered pursuant to Section
      12 of the Exchange Act, the Company will use reasonable commercial efforts
      to
      file on or before the required date all regular or periodic reports (pursuant
      to
      the Exchange Act) required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the
      Exchange Act and will deliver to the Holder promptly upon their becoming
      available (unless such reports are available through the Commission s EDGAR
      system) one copy of each report, notice or proxy statement sent by the Company
      to its stockholders generally, and of each regular or periodic report (pursuant
      to the Exchange Act) and any Registration Statement, prospectus or written
      communication (other than transmittal letters) (pursuant to the Securities
      Act),
      filed by the Company with (a) the Commission or (b) any securities exchange
      on
      which shares of Common Stock are listed. 

11.      NO
      RIGHTS AS STOCKHOLDERS; LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY  

This
      Warrant shall not entitle the Holder to any rights as a stockholder of the
      Company, including, without limitation, the right to vote, to receive dividends
      and other distributions or to receive notice of or attend meetings of
      stockholders or any other proceedings of the Company unless and to the extent
      exercised for shares of Common Stock in accordance with the terms hereof. No
      provision hereof, in the absence of affirmative action by the Holder to exercise
      its rights to purchase shares of Common Stock hereunder, and no enumeration
      herein of the rights or privileges of the Holder hereof, shall give rise to
      any
      liability of such Holder for the purchase price of any Common Stock or as a
      stockholder of the Company, whether such liability is asserted by the Company
      or
      by creditors of the Company. 

12.
            MISCELLANEOUS  

12.1.      Nonwaiver
      and Expenses   .
      No
      course of dealing or any delay or failure to exercise any right hereunder on
      the
      part of the Holder shall operate as a waiver of such right or otherwise
      prejudice the Holder s rights, powers or remedies. If the Company fails to make,
      when due, any payments provided for hereunder, or fails to comply with any
      other
      provision of this Warrant, the Company shall pay to the Holder such amounts
      as
      shall be sufficient to cover any costs and expenses including, but not limited
      to, reasonable attorneys  fees, including those of appellate proceedings,
      incurred by the Holder in collecting any amounts due pursuant hereto or in
      otherwise enforcing any of its rights, powers or remedies
      hereunder. 

11 

12.2.      Notice
      Generally   .
      Any
      notice, demand, request, consent, approval, declaration, delivery or other
      communication hereunder to be made pursuant to the provisions of this Warrant
      shall be sufficiently given or made if in writing and either delivered in person
      with receipt acknowledged or sent by registered or certified mail, return
      receipt requested, postage prepaid, or by telecopy and confirmed by telecopy
      answerback, addressed as follows: 

If
      to
      the Company:         Level
      8
      Systems, Inc. 

                      8000
      Regency Parkway, Suite 542 

                      Cary,
      NC 27511 

                        Attn:
     John
      P.
      Broderick 

With
      a Copy to:             Goldenbock
      Eiseman Assor Bell   Peskoe LLP 

                      437
      Madison Avenue, 40   th   
      Floor 

                      New
      York, NY 10022 

                      Attn:
      Lawrence M. Bell 

If
      to
      the Holder:      At
      its
      last known address appearing on the books and records of the Company maintained
      for such purpose  
      or at
      such other address as may be substituted by notice given as herein provided.
      The
      giving of any notice required hereunder may be waived in writing by the party
      entitled to receive such notice. Every notice, demand, request, consent,
      approval, declaration or other communication hereunder shall be deemed to have
      been duly given and effective on the earliest of (a) the date of transmission,
      if such notice or communication is delivered via facsimile at the facsimile
      number specified in this Section prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on
      a
      business day, (b) the next business day after the date of transmission, if
      such
      notice or communication is delivered via facsimile at the facsimile number
      specified in this Section on a day that is not a business day or later than
      5:00
      p.m. (New York City time) on any business day, (c) the business day following
      the date of mailing, if sent by U.S. nationally recognized overnight courier
      service, or (d) upon actual receipt by the party to whom such notice is required
      to be given. As used herein, a  business day  means any day except Saturday,
      Sunday and any day which shall be a federal legal holiday or a day on which
      banking institutions in the State of New York are authorized or required by
      law
      or other governmental action to close. 

12.3.      Remedies   .
      Each
      holder of Warrant and Warrant Stock, in addition to being entitled to exercise
      all rights granted by law, including recovery of damages, will be entitled
      to
      specific performance of its rights under this Warrant. The Company agrees that
      monetary damages would not be adequate compensation for any loss incurred by
      reason of a breach by it of the provisions of this Warrant and hereby agrees
      to
      waive the defense in any action for specific performance that a remedy at law
      would be adequate. 

12.4.      Successors
      and Assigns   .
      Subject
      to the provisions of Sections 3.1, this Warrant and the rights evidenced hereby
      shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors of the Company
      and the successors and assigns of the Holder. The provisions of this Warrant
      are
      intended to be for the benefit of all Holders from time to time of this Warrant
      and, with respect to 

12 

Section
      8
      hereof, holders of Warrant Stock, and shall be enforceable by any such Holder
      or
      holder of Warrant Stock. 

12.5.      Amendment   .
      This
      Warrant may be modified or amended or the provisions hereof waived with the
      written consent of the Company and the Holder. 

12.6      Severability   .
      Wherever possible, each provision of this Warrant shall be interpreted in such
      manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision
      of this Warrant shall be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, such
      provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity,
      without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions
      of this Warrant. 

12.7      Headings   .
      The
      headings used in this Warrant are for the convenience of reference only and
      shall not, for any purpose, be deemed a part of this Warrant. 

12.8      Governing
      Law   .
        All
      questions concerning the construction, validity, enforcement and interpretation
      of this Warrant shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance
      with the internal laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the
      principles of conflicts of law thereof. Each party agrees that all proceedings
      concerning the interpretations, enforcement and defense of the transactions
      contemplated by this Warrant (whether brought against a party hereto or its
      respective affiliates, directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents)
      (each a "   Proceeding   ")
      shall
      be commenced exclusively in the state and federal courts sitting in the City
      of
      New York, Borough of Manhattan. Each party hereto hereby irrevocably submits
      to
      the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts sitting in the City
      of New York, Borough of Manhattan for the adjudication of any dispute hereunder
      or in connection herewith or with any transaction contemplated hereby or
      discussed herein (including with respect to the enforcement of this Warrant),
      and hereby irrevocably waives, and agrees not to assert in any Proceeding,
      any
      claim that it is not personally subject to the jurisdiction of any such court,
      that such Proceeding is improper. Each party hereto hereby irrevocably waives
      personal service of process and consents to process being served in any such
      Proceeding by mailing a copy thereof via registered or certified mail or
      overnight delivery (with evidence of delivery) to such party at the address
      in
      effect for notices to it under this Warrant and agrees that such service shall
      constitute good and sufficient service of process and notice thereof. Nothing
      contained herein shall be deemed to limit in any way any right to serve process
      in any manner permitted by law. Each party hereto hereby irrevocably waives,
      to
      the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial
      by
      jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Warrant or
      the
      transactions contemplated hereby. If either party shall commence a Proceeding
      to
      enforce any provisions of this Warrant, then the prevailing party in such
      Proceeding shall be reimbursed by the other party for its attorneys fees and
      other costs and expenses incurred with the investigation, preparation and
      prosecution of such Proceeding. 

13 

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Warrant to be duly executed and
      its
      corporate seal to be impressed hereon as of the day and year first above
      written. 

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

By:

John
      P.
      Broderick, 

                    Chief
      Executive and Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT
      A  

       ASSIGNMENT
      FORM  

      FOR
      VALUE
      RECEIVED the undersigned registered owner of this Warrant hereby sells, assigns
      and transfers unto the Assignee named below all of the rights of the undersigned
      under this Warrant, with respect to the number of shares of Common Stock set
      forth below: 

Name
      and Address of Assignee                                                 No.
      of  Shares of             

                                                                               Common
      Stock  

___________________________________                                 _______________ 

___________________________________ 

___________________________________ 

___________________________________ 

and
      does
      hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint __________________________
      attorney-in-fact to register such transfer on the books of LEVEL 8 SYSTEMS,
      INC., maintained for the purpose, with full power of substitution in the
      premises. 

Dated:
      __________________                                Print
      Name:    

Signature:    

Witness:    

NOTICE:        The
      signature on this subscription must correspond with the name as written upon
      the
      face of the within Warrant in every particular, without alteration of
      enlargement or any change whatsoever. 

</EX-4.17>

<EX-10.14A>
 5
 amendment2.htm
 AMENDMENT 2 BANK HAPOALIM PROMISSORY NOTE

Amendment 2 Bank Hapoalim Promissory Note

As
      of
      November 3, 2005 

Level
      8
      Systems, Inc. 

      8000
      Regency Parkway 

      Cary,
      NC
      27511 

Gentlemen: 

We
      are
      pleased to advise that Bank Hapoalim B.M. (the  Bank ) has agreed, subject to
      the conditions set forth below to renew the existing term loan (the  Loan ) to
      you       (the
       Borrower ) in the amount of $1,971,000.00. The Loan shall mature on October 30,
      2006. Any amounts prepaid at any time during the term of the Loan may not be
      reborrowed. The effectiveness of the renewal of the Loan is subject to the
      Bank s receipt of such documentation as it may request, including without
      limitation, the following, each in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank:
      (1) this Letter Agreement, (2) a Promissory Note in the amount of $1,971,000.00
      executed by the Borrower in favor of the Bank in substitution and replacement
      of
      the Note dated as of November 15, 2003, (3) a Letter of Undertaking from Bank
      Hapoalim Rison Le Zion Branch in the aggregate amount of $1,971,000.00, and
      (4)
      any other documents as the Bank may require. The Borrower shall also pay an
      amendment fee in the amount of $350.00. 

Please
      indicate your acknowledgment of and agreement to the foregoing by signing and
      returning the enclosed copy of this letter to the attention of Maxine Levy,
      Vice
      President. 

Very
      truly yours, 

Acknowledged
      and Agreed to:                            BANK
      HAPOALIM B.M.  

LEVEL
      8 SYSTEMS, INC.  

                      By:
      ______________________ 

      By:
      _________________________                                   Title:    

          Title:          

                                           By:
      ______________________ 

      By:
      ______________________                                        Title: 

          Title: 

J:\gina\-04
            agreements\05283Level 8 Systems Inc Letter Agreement (12/16/05) 

             New
            York Branches  

1177
            Avenue of the Americas New York NY 10036-2790 

            T.
            212
            782 2000 F. 212 782 2222 www.hapoalimusa.com 

AGREEMENT  

Dated
      November 3, 2005  

The
      parties to this agreement are Level 8 Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) and Liraz
      Systems Ltd. ( Liraz ). 

Pursuant
      to a guaranty agreement between Liraz and Bank Hapoalim B.M. (the  Bank ), Liraz
      has guaranteed certain obligations of the Company under the Company s promissory
      note (the  Note ) dated September 28, 2001, in favor of the Bank, which is due
      and payable on or about November 03, 2005 (the  Guaranty ). The outstanding
      principal amount of the Note is $1,971,000. 

The
      parties wish to enter into an agreement with respect to, among other things,
      (a)
      the extension of the maturity of the Note, by amendment, renewal, replacement,
      or otherwise, from November 03, 2005 to November 15, 2006, and the related
      extension of the Guaranty, (b) the loan by Liraz to the Company of $43,000
      pursuant to a promissory note in the form of exhibit A (the  $43,000 Note ), and
      (c) the agreement by the Company to repay $100,000 aggregate principal amount
      of
      the Note pursuant to the irrevocable instruction letter in the form of exhibit
      B
      (the  Irrevocable Instruction Letter ). 

Accordingly,
      the parties agree as follows: 

1.      Extension
      of Maturity; Issuance and Registration of Shares     

(a)     The
      Company and Liraz shall cooperate with each other with a view to causing the
      Bank, as promptly as practicable, to extend the maturity of the Note from
      November 03, 2005 to November 15, 2006. In that connection, Liraz shall take
      such action, and execute and deliver to the Bank such documents, as the Bank
      may
      reasonably require to insure that the Guaranty remain in effect through November
      15, 2006. As long as Liraz has any liability or obligation to the Bank under
      the
      Guaranty, and, except for the extension of the maturity of the Note contemplated
      by this section, the Company shall not, directly or indirectly, modify, amend,
      or otherwise change the terms of the Note or the Company s or its subsidiaries 
liabilities or obligations to the Bank, without the prior written consent of
      Liraz.  

(b)     As
      promptly as practicable after the execution and delivery of this agreement
      (but
      in no event later than, and as a condition of, the execution and delivery of
      all
      the documents necessary to extend the maturity of the Note and cause the
      Guaranty to remain in effect through November 15, 2006), the Company shall
      issue
      to Liraz (i) 2,400,000 fully paid and nonassessable shares of the Company s
      common stock, free and clear of any adverse claim (the date on which the Company
      is required to issue such shares to Liraz, the  Guaranty Extension Date ), and
      (ii) a warrant to purchase shares of the Company s common stock in the form of
      exhibit C. 

1 

2.      Loan
      of $43,000; Use of Proceeds; Letter of Instruction   .
           Simultaneously
      with the execution and delivery of this agreement, (a) Liraz is transferring
      to
      the Company $43,000, (b) the Company is issuing to Liraz the $43,000 Note,
      (c)
      the Company is transferring $43,000 to the Bank in full satisfaction of all
      interest currently due and payable under the Note, and (d) the Company is
      executing and delivering to Bank of America, N.A. (the  Depository ) the Letter
      of Instruction. The Company shall maintain deposits at the Depository sufficient
      to perform all its obligations under the $43,000 Note and to enable the
      Depository to carry out all the instructions in the Letter of Instruction.
      The
      Company acknowledges that Liraz is an intended beneficiary of the Letter of
      Instruction. The Company represents and warrants to Liraz that the Depository
      is
      the primary bank or other financial institution at which the Company maintains
      a
      checking account or holds deposits. Until $100,000 shall have been paid to
      the
      Bank pursuant to the Letter of Instruction, the Company shall not amend,
      withdraw, or terminate, or otherwise permit to become ineffective, the Letter
      of
      Instruction, and shall not maintain a checking, deposit, or similar account
      in
      any bank or other financial institution (other than the Depository) unless
      it so
      notifies Liraz at least two weeks in advance of any change in financial
      institution, and enters into a Letter of Instruction substantially the same
      as
      the Letter of Instruction referred to above, which Letter of Instruction is
      reasonably satisfactory to Liraz.  

3.      Repayment
      Obligations   .     The
      Company hereby acknowledges and confirms to Liraz that (i) it is required to
      prepay the indebtedness under the Note immediately upon the consummation of
      a
      financing by it or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries, to the extent
      of
      10% of any net proceeds of any such financing in accordance with exhibit 6.1.1
      of the asset purchase agreement dated August 8, 2001 between the Company and
      BluePhoenix Solutions Ltd. ( BluePhoenix ) (the  APA ), (ii) it shall not, and
      it shall not permit any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries to, consummate
      any such financing, if the related prepayment of the indebtedness under the
      Note
      in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence does not occur
      simultaneously with the consummation of the financing, and (iii) the liabilities
      and obligations referred to in (i) and (ii) above are in addition to the
      liabilities and obligations of the Company under the Irrevocable Instruction
      Letter (for the avoidance of doubt, it is understood and agreed that (A) the
      satisfaction or discharge of any liability or obligation under the Irrevocable
      Instruction Letter shall not satisfy or discharge any liability or obligation
      referred to in (i) or (ii) above, and (B) the discharge or satisfaction of
      any
      liability or obligation under (i) or (ii) above shall not satisfy or discharge
      any liability or obligation under the Irrevocable Instruction Letter.

4.      Registration.  
        The
      Company shall cause all shares required to be issued pursuant to section 1
      and
      issuable pursuant to the warrant referred to in section 1 to be registered
      under
      a registration statement on Form S-4/A to be filed with the Securities and
      Exchange Commission as promptly as practicable, but in no event later than
      December 31, 2005, and shall use its best efforts to cause such registration
      statement to become effective as soon as practicable, and to remain effective
      and current, until (a) all the certificates evidencing the unsold shares covered
      by the registration statement cease to bear any restrictive legends, (b) no
      such
      shares are subject to any stop transfer orders, and (c) all the unsold shares
      covered by the registration statement may be sold publicly without registration
      under the Securities Act of 1933 (without limitation as to volume in any period)
      (such date, the  Termination Date ). Except as otherwise provided in this

2 

section
      4, the provisions of the registration rights agreement among the Company and
      the
      Purchasers named therein dated October 15, 2003 shall be applicable to the
      shares required to be registered pursuant to this section 4,    mutatis
      mutandis   .

Notwithstanding
      anything to the contrary in this section 4, if the Company is or becomes a
      party
      to any agreement with any other person or entity respecting registration of
      shares under Securities Act of 1933, which agreement contains provisions
      entitling such other person or entity to rights not otherwise provided to Liraz
      under this section 4, this section 4 shall be deemed amended to the extent
      necessary to provide Liraz such additional rights (but without adversely
      affecting the rights otherwise provided under this section 4. 

5.     Co   -Lender
      Agreement and Intellectual Property Security Agreement   .
      The
      Company acknowledges and confirms to Liraz that (a) in connection with the
      execution and delivery of the 2004 Extension Agreement, the Company orally
      undertook to cause all the holders of the New Securities (as defined in the
      2004
      Extension Agreement) to execute and deliver a co-lender agreement in the form
      of
      exhibit [D] to replace the co-lender agreement that had been executed and
      delivered by all such holders (other than Liraz), and (b) the Company did not
      perform that undertaking. The Company hereby agrees that, prior to the Guarantee
      Extension Date, it shall perform that undertaking and provide Liraz copies
      of
      documents evidencing the performance of that undertaking.    

6.      Release   .
      The
      Company, on its own behalf and on behalf of each of its subsidiaries and
      controlled affiliates, hereby releases, acquits, and forever discharges Liraz
      and its affiliates, agents, representatives, officers, directors, and employees,
      whether in their individual or representative capacities, and their successors
      and assigns from, and acknowledge the full accord and satisfaction of, any
      and
      all claims, accounts, debts, obligations, demands, damages, actions, or suits
      of
      whatever nature, whether in contract, tort, or otherwise, now accrued known
      or
      unknown, arising out of any and all transactions and occurrences up to and
      including the execution and delivery of this agreement; provided, however,
      that
      this release shall not release Liraz [or any of its affiliates] from any
      obligations [not in default immediately before the execution and delivery of
      this agreement and required to be performed by any of them on or after the
      date
      of this agreement] pursuant to [the APA, the bill of sale and assignment and
      assumption agreement dated October 1, 2001 among the Company, Level 8
      Technologies, Inc. and BluePhoenix, the sublease dated October 1, 2001 between
      the Company and BluePhoenix, insofar as it relates to the premises in Cary,
      North Carolina, or] this agreement. 

7.     Remedy.     If
      the
      Company fails to perform any of its obligations under this agreement, Liraz
      may,
      at its option, by notice given to the Company, terminate any or all of its
      obligations to perform further under this agreement, without any liability
      therefore. 

8.     Miscellaneous 

3 

(a)      Further
      Assurances   .
      Each
      party shall, without further consideration, take such action and execute and
      deliver such documents as any other party reasonably requests to carry out
      this
      agreement.  

(b)      Expenses   .
      Each
      party shall bear its own expenses in connection with the negotiation and
      preparation of this agreement and all duties and obligations required to be
      performed by it under this agreement. 

(c)      Governing
      Law   .
      This
      agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of
      the
      state of New York, without giving effect to its conflict of law
      principles. 

(d)      Headings.   
      The
      section headings of this agreement are for reference purposes only, and are
      to
      be given no effect in the construction or interpretation of this
      agreement. 

(e)      Notices   .
      All
      notices and other communications under this agreement shall be in writing and
      may be given by any of the following methods: (i) personal delivery; (ii)
      facsimile transmission; (iii) registered or certified mail, postage prepaid,
      return receipt requested; or (iv) overnight delivery service. Notices shall
      be
      sent to the appropriate party at its address or facsimile number given below
      (or
      at such other address or facsimile number for that party as shall be specified
      by notice given under this section 8(e)): 

      (y)
      if to
      the Company, to it at: 

8000
      Regency Parkway 

      Cary,
      North Carolina 27511 

      Attention:
      Mr. John Broderick 

With
      a
      copy to: 

Golenbock,
      Eiseman, Assor, Bell and Peskoe, LLP 

      437
      Madison Avenue 

      New
      York,
      NY 10022 

      Attention:
      Lawrence Bell, Esq. 

(z)
      if to Liraz, to
      it at: 

8
      Maskit
      Street 

                P.O.
      Box 2062 

                Herzlia
      46120 

              Israel 

              Attention:
      Chief Financial
      Officer 

4 

with
      a
      copy to: 

Law
      Office of Edward W. Kerson 

      80
      University Place, Third Floor 

      New
      York,
      New York 10003-4564 

All
      such
      notices and communications shall be deemed received upon (v) actual receipt
      by
      the addressee, (vi) actual delivery to the appropriate address, or (vii) in
      the
      case of a facsimile transmission, upon transmission by the sender and issuance
      by the transmitting machine of a confirmation slip confirming that the number
      of
      pages constituting the notice have been transmitted without error. In the case
      of notices sent by facsimile transmission, the sender shall contemporaneously
      mail a copy of the notice to the addressee at the address provided for above.
      However, such mailing shall in no way alter the time at which the facsimile
      notice is deemed received. 

(f)      Separability.   
      The
      invalidity of unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not
      affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this agreement,
      which shall remain in full force and effect. 

(g)     Waiver.
      Any party may waive compliance by the others with any provision of this
      agreement. No waiver of any provision shall be construed as a waiver of any
      other provision. Any waiver must be in writing and signed by the waiving party.

(h)      Counterparts   .
      This
      agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an
      original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same
      instrument. 

(i)      Arbitration   .
      Any
      dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this agreement shall
      be settled exclusively by arbitration to be held in the City of New York before
      a single arbitrator in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration
      Association then in effect. As part of his award, the arbitrator shall make
      a
      fair allocation between the parties of the fee and expenses of the American
      Arbitration Association and the cost of any transcript, taking into account
      the
      merits of the parties  claims and defenses. Judgment may be entered on the
      arbitrator s award in any court having jurisdiction, and the parties irrevocably
      consent to the jurisdiction of the New York courts for that purpose. The parties
      waive personal service in connection with any such arbitration; any process
      or
      other papers under this provision may be served outside the state of New York
      by
      at least 10 days  written notice given in accordance with section 8(e). The
      arbitrator may grant injunctive or other relief.  

(j) 

Entire
                Agreement   .
                This agreement is a complete statement of all the terms of the

arrangements
      between the parties with respect to the matters provided for, supersedes all
      previous agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to
      those
      matters, and cannot be changed or terminated orally. 

5 

LEVEL
      8
      SYSTEMS, INC. 

By:                   

LIRAZ
      SYSTEMS LTD  . 

By:_____________________________             

</EX-10.14A>

<EX-10.15>
 6
 piziemploymentagmt.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ANTHONY PIZI

Employment Agreement Anthony Pizi

EMPLOYMENT
      AGREEMENT   

This
      Employment Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made effective this 1   st   
      day of
      January, 2005, by and between LEVEL 8 SYSTEMS, INC., a Delaware corporation
      (the
 Company ), and Anthony Pizi, a resident of the State of New Jersey (the
 Employee ).  

In
      consideration of the mutual covenants, promises and conditions set forth in
      this
      Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
      sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as
      follows: 

1. 

Employment   .
                The Company hereby employs Employee and Employee hereby accepts such
                employment upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

2. 

Duties
                of Employee   .
                Employee s title will be Chief Executive Officer and Chief Technology
                Officer. Employee will be based in New Jersey. Employee agrees to
                perform
                and discharge such other duties as may be assigned to Employee from
                time
                to time by the Company to the reasonable satisfaction of the Company,
                and
                such duties will be consistent with those duties regularly and customarily
                assigned by the Company to the position of Chief Executive Officer
                and
                Chief Technology Officer. In addition, Employee shall serve as Chairman
                of
                the Board of Directors so long as he is elected to such post by the
                Board
                of Directors according to the By-Laws of the Company. Employee also
                agrees
                to comply with all of the Company's policies, standards and regulations
                and to follow the instructions and directives as promulgated by the
                Board
                of Directors of the Company. Employee will devote Employee's full
                professional and business-related time, skills and best efforts to
                such
                duties and will not, during the term of this Agreement, be engaged
                (whether or not during normal business hours) in any other business
                or
                professional activity, whether or not such activity is pursued for
                gain,
                profit or other pecuniary advantage, without the prior written consent
                of
                the Board of Directors of the Company. This Section will not be construed
                to prevent Employee from (a) investing personal assets in businesses
                which
                do not compete with the Company in such form or manner that will
                not
                require any services on the part of Employee in the operation or
                the
                affairs of the companies in which such investments are made and in
                which
                Employee's participation is solely that of an investor; (b) purchasing
                securities in any corporation whose securities are listed on a national
                securities exchange or regularly traded in the over-the-counter market,
                provided that Employee at no time owns, directly or indirectly, in
                excess
                of one percent (1%) of the outstanding stock of any class of any
                such
                corporation engaged in a business competitive with that of the Company;
                or
                (c) participating in conferences, preparing and publishing papers
                or
                books, teaching or joining or participating in any professional
                associations or trade group. 

3. 

Term   .
                The term of this Agreement will be at-will, and can be terminated
                by
                either party at any time, with or without cause, subject to the provisions
                of Section 4 of this Agreement.

1 

4.      Termination   . 

(a) 

Termination
                by Company for Cause   .
                The Company may terminate this Agreement and all of its obligations
                hereunder immediately, including the obligation to pay Employee severance,
                vacation pay or any further benefits or remuneration, if any of the
                following events occur: 

(i) 

Employee
                materially breaches any of the terms or conditions set forth in this
                Agreement and fails to cure such breach within ten (10) days after
                Employee's receipt from the Company of written notice of such breach
                (notwithstanding the foregoing, no cure period shall be applicable
                to
                breaches by Employee of Sections 6, 7 or 8 of this
                Agreement); 

(ii) 

Employee
                commits any other act materially detrimental to the business or reputation
                of the Company; 

(iii) 

Employee
                engages in dishonest or illegal activities or commits or is convicted
                of
                any crime involving fraud, deceit or moral turpitude;
                or 

(iv) 

Employee
                dies or becomes mentally or physically incapacitated or disabled
                so as to
                be unable to perform Employee's duties under this Agreement even
                with a
                reasonable accommodation. Without limiting the generality of the
                foregoing, Employee's inability adequately to perform services under
                this
                Agreement for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days will be conclusive
                evidence of such mental or physical incapacity or disability, unless
                such
                inability adequately to perform services under this Agreement is
                pursuant
                to a mental or physical incapacity or disability covered by the Family
                Medical Leave Act, in which case such sixty (60) day period shall
                be
                extended to a one hundred and twenty (120) day
                period. 

(b) 

Termination
                by Company Without Cause   .
                The Company may terminate Employee's employment pursuant to this
                Agreement
                for reasons other than those stated in Section 4(a) upon at least
                thirty
                (30) days' prior written notice to Employee. In the event Employee's
                employment with the Company is terminated by the Company without
                cause,
                the Company shall be obligated to pay Employee a lump sum severance
                payment equal to one (1) year of Employee s then base salary payable
                within thirty (30) days of the date of termination. In addition,
                all
                Employee s then outstanding but unvested stock options shall vest one
                hundred percent (100%). Other than the severance payment and vesting
                of
                outstanding options set forth in this Section 4(b), Employee will
                be
                entitled to receive no further remuneration and will not be entitled
                to
                participate in any Company benefit programs following his termination
                by
                the Company, whether such termination is with or without cause.
                Furthermore, should Employee s employment with the Company be terminated
                without cause, Employee shall be entitled to an award of 200,000
                shares of
                the Company s Common Stock.  

2 

Employee
      shall not be entitled to any further remuneration of any kind whatsoever for
      his
      termination without cause. The above stock award will not subject to any
      customary adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and the like undertaken
      by the Company.  

(c) 

Termination
                by Employee for Cause   .
                In the event there occurs a substantial change in the Employee s job
                duties, there is a decrease in or a failure to provide the compensation
                or
                vested benefits under this Agreement or there is a Change in Control
                (as
                defined below) of the Company, Employee shall have the right to resign
                his
                employment and will be entitled to receive a severance payment equal
                to an
                award of 500,000 shares of the Company s common stock. For avoidance of
                doubt, this award shall be in lieu of the 200,000 common stock shares
                awarded Employee under Section 4(b) above. The above stock award
                will not
                subject to any customary adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends
                and
                the like undertaken by the Company. In addition, all Employee s then
                outstanding but unvested stock options shall vest one hundred percent
                (100%). Employee shall have thirty (30) days from the date written
                notice
                is given to Employee about either (a) a change in his duties or (b)
                the
                announcement and closing of a transaction resulting in a Change in
                Control
                of the Company to resign or this Section 4(c) shall not apply. In
                the
                event Employee resigns from the Company for any other reason, Employee
                will not be entitled to receive or accrue any further Company benefits
                or
                other remuneration under this Agreement, and Employee specifically
                agrees
                that he will not be entitled to receive any severance
                pay. 

For
      purposes of this Section 4, a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred
      if any of the following occur: 

(i) 

the
                merger of consolidation of the Company with or into another unaffiliated
                entity, or the merger of another unaffiliated entity into the Company
                or
                another subsidiary thereof with the effect that immediately after
                such
                transaction the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to
                such
                transaction hold less than fifty percent (50%) of the total voting
                power
                of all securities generally entitled to vote in the election of directors,
                managers or trustees of the entity surviving such merger or
                consolidation; 

(ii) 

the
                sale or transfer of more than fifty-one percent (51%) of the Company s
                then outstanding voting stock (other than a restructuring event which
                results in the continuation of the Company s business by an affiliated
                entity) to unaffiliated person or group (as such term is used in
                Section
                13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended);
                or 

(iii) 

the
                adoption by the stockholders of the Company of a plan relating to
                the
                liquidation or dissolution of the
                Company. 

3 

5.      Compensation
      and Benefits   .

(a) 

Annual
                Salary   .
                During the term of this Agreement and for all services rendered by
                Employee under this Agreement, the Company will pay Employee a base
                salary
                of Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000.00) per annum in equal
                bi-monthly installments. Such annual salary will be subject to adjustments
                by any increases given in the normal course of
                business. 

(b) 

Incentive
                Compensation   .
                Employee shall be eligible to receive incentive compensation in the
                form
                of a cash bonus, the amount of such cash bonus is explained on Exhibit
                C,
                upon the Company reaching sales goals for the calendar year as set
                forth
                in the operating plan for the Company which was approved by the Board
                of
                Directors. Said bonus will be payable after the annual accounts have
                been
                presented to the Compensation Committee. Exhibit C attached hereto
                provides the benchmarks associated with achieving the Incentive
                Compensation. 

.

6. 

Vacation.   
                Employee shall be eligible for four (4) weeks of paid vacation annually,
                provided that such vacation is scheduled at such times that do not
                interfere with the Company s legitimate business
                needs. 

7. 

Other
                Benefits   .
                Employee will be entitled to such fringe benefits as may be provided
                from
                time-to-time by the Company to its employees, including, but not
                limited
                to, group health insurance, life and disability insurance, and any
                other
                fringe benefits now or hereafter provided by the Company to its employees,
                if and when Employee meets the eligibility requirements for any such
                benefit. The Company reserves the right to change or discontinue
                any
                employee benefit plans or programs now being offered to its employees;
                provided, however, that all benefits provided for employees of the
                same
                position and status as Employee will be provided to Employee on an
                equal
                basis. 

8. 

Business
                Expenses   .
                Employee will be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses incurred
                in the
                discharge of Employee's duties under this Agreement pursuant to the
                Company's standard reimbursement
                policies. 

9. 

Withholding   .
                The Company will deduct and withhold from the payments made to Employee
                under this Agreement, state and federal income taxes, FICA and other
                amounts normally withheld from compensation due
                employees. 

10. 

Non-Disclosure
                of Proprietary Information   .
                Employee recognizes and acknowledges that the Trade Secrets (as defined
                below) and Confidential Information (as defined below) of the Company
                and
                its affiliates and all physical embodiments thereof (as they may
                exist
                from time-to-time, collectively, the  Proprietary Information ) are
                valuable, special and unique assets of the Company's and its affiliates'
                businesses. Employee further 

4 

acknowledges
      that access to such Proprietary Information is essential to the performance
      of
      Employee's duties under this Agreement. Therefore, in order to obtain access
      to
      such Proprietary Information, Employee agrees that, except with respect to
      those
      duties assigned to him by the Company, Employee shall hold in confidence all
      Proprietary Information and will not reproduce, use, distribute, disclose,
      publish or otherwise disseminate any Proprietary Information, in whole or in
      part, and will take no action causing, or fail to take any action necessary
      to
      prevent causing, any Proprietary Information to lose its character as
      Proprietary Information, nor will Employee make use of any such information
      for
      Employee's own purposes or for the benefit of any person, firm, corporation,
      association or other entity (except the Company) under any circumstances.

For
      purposes of this Agreement, the term  Trade Secrets  means information,
      including, but not limited to, any technical or nontechnical data, formula,
      pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, drawing, process,
      financial data, financial plan, product plan, list of actual or potential
      customers or suppliers, or other information similar to any of the foregoing,
      which derives economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally
      known to, and not being readily ascertainable by proper means by, other persons
      who can derive economic value from its disclosure or use. For purposes of this
      Agreement, the term  Trade Secrets  does not include information that Employee
      can show by competent proof (i) was known to Employee and reduced to writing
      prior to disclosure by the Company (but only if Employee promptly notifies
      the
      Company of Employee s prior knowledge); (ii) was generally known to the public
      at the time the Company disclosed the information to Employee; (iii) became
      generally known to the public after disclosure by the Company through no act
      or
      omission of Employee; or (iv) was disclosed to Employee by a third party having
      a bona fide right both to possess the information and to disclose the
      information to Employee. The term  Confidential Information  means any data or
      information of the Company, other than trade secrets, which is valuable to
      the
      Company and not generally known to competitors of the Company. The provisions
      of
      this Section 6 will apply to Trade Secrets for so long as such information
      remains a trade secret and to Confidential Information during Employee s
      employment with the Company and for a period of two (2) years following any
      termination of Employee s employment with the Company for whatever
      reason. 

11. 

Non-Solicitation
                Covenants   .
                Employee agrees that during Employee's employment by the Company
                and for a
                period of one (1) year following the termination of Employee's employment
                for whatever reason, Employee will not, directly or indirectly, on
                Employee's own behalf or in the service of or on behalf of any other
                individual or entity, divert, solicit or attempt to divert or solicit
                any
                individual or entity (i) who is a client of the Company at any time
                during
                the six (6)-month period prior to Employee's termination of employment
                with the Company ( Client ), or was actively sought by the Company as a
                prospective client, and (ii) with whom Employee had material contact
                while
                employed by the Company to provide similar services or products as
                such
                provided by Employee for the Company to such Clients or prospects.
                Employee further agrees and represents that during Employee's employment
                by the Company and for a period of one (1)
                year 

5 

following
      any termination of Employee's employment for whatever reason, Employee will
      not,
      directly or indirectly, on Employee's own behalf or in the service of, or on
      behalf of any other individual or entity, divert, solicit or hire away, or
      attempt to divert, solicit or hire away, to or for any individual or entity
      which is engaged in providing similar services or products to that provided
      by
      the Company, any person employed by the Company for whom Employee had
      supervisory responsibility or with whom Employee had material contact while
      employed by the Company, whether or not such employee is a full-time employee
      or
      temporary employee of the Company, whether or not such employee is employed
      pursuant to written agreement and whether or not such employee is employed
      for a
      determined period or at-will. For purposes of this Agreement,  material contact 
exists between Employee and a Client or potential Client when (1) Employee
      established and/or nurtured the Client or potential Client; (2) the Client
      or
      potential Client and Employee interacted to further a business relationship
      or
      contract with the Company; (3) Employee had access to confidential information
      and/or marketing strategies or programs regarding the Client or potential
      Client; and/or (4) Employee learned of the Client or potential Client through
      the efforts of the Company providing Employee with confidential Client
      information, including but not limited to the Client s identify, for purposes of
      furthering a business relationship.  

12. 

Existing
                Restrictive Covenants   .
                Except as provided in Exhibit B, Employee has not entered into any
                agreement with any employer or former employer (a) to keep in confidence
                any confidential information or (b) to not compete with any former
                employer. Employee represents and warrants that Employee's employment
                with
                the Company does not and will not breach any agreement which Employee
                has
                with any former employer to keep in confidence confidential information
                or
                not to compete with any such former employer. Employee will not disclose
                to the Company or use on its behalf any confidential information
                of any
                other party required to be kept confidential by
                Employee. 

13. 

Return
                of Proprietary Information   .
                Employee acknowledges that as a result of Employee's employment with
                the
                Company, Employee may come into the possession and control of Proprietary
                Information, such as proprietary documents, drawings, specifications,
                manuals, notes, computer programs, or other proprietary material.
                Employee
                acknowledges, warrants and agrees that Employee will return to the
                Company
                all such items and any copies or excerpts thereof, and any other
                properties, files or documents obtained as a result of Employee's
                employment with the Company, immediately upon the termination of
                Employee's employment with the
                Company. 

14. 

Proprietary
                Rights   .
                During the course of Employee's employment with the Company, Employee
                may
                make, develop or conceive of useful processes, machines, compositions
                of
                matter, computer software, algorithms, works of authorship expressing
                such
                algorithm, or any other discovery, idea, concept, document or improvement
                which relates to or is useful to the Company's Business (the
                 Inventions ), whether or not subject to copyright or patent protection,
                and which may or may not be considered Proprietary Information. Employee
                acknowledges that all such Inventions will be  works made for hire  under
                United States copyright law and will remain the sole and exclusive
                property of the 

6 

Company.
      Employee also hereby assigns and agrees to assign to the Company, in perpetuity,
      all right, title and interest Employee may have in and to such Inventions,
      including without limitation, all copyrights, and the right to apply for any
      form of patent, utility model, industrial design or similar proprietary right
      recognized by any state, country or jurisdiction. Employee further agrees,
      at
      the Company's request and expense, to do all things and sign all documents
      or
      instruments necessary, in the opinion of the Company, to eliminate any ambiguity
      as to the ownership of, and rights of the Company to, such Inventions, including
      filing copyright and patent registrations and defending and enforcing in
      litigation or otherwise all such rights.  

Employee
      will not be obligated to assign to the Company any Invention made by Employee
      while in the Company's employ which does not relate to any business or activity
      in which the Company is or may reasonably be expected to become engaged, except
      that Employee is so obligated if the same relates to or is based on Proprietary
      Information to which Employee will have had access during and by virtue of
      Employee's employment or which arises out of work assigned to Employee by the
      Company. Employee will not be obligated to assign any Invention which may be
      wholly conceived by Employee after Employee leaves the employ of the Company,
      except that Employee is so obligated if such Invention involves the utilization
      of Proprietary Information obtained while in the employ of the Company. Employee
      is not obligated to assign any Invention that relates to or would be useful
      in
      any business or activities in which the Company is engaged if such Invention
      was
      conceived and reduced to practice by Employee prior to Employee's employment
      with the Company. Employee agrees that any such Invention is set forth on
      Exhibit  A  to this Agreement. 

15. 

Remedies   .
                Employee agrees and acknowledges that the violation of any of the
                covenants or agreements contained in Sections 6, 7, and 10 of this
                Agreement would cause irreparable injury to the Company, that the
                remedy
                at law for any such violation or threatened violation thereof would
                be
                inadequate, and that the Company will be entitled, in addition to
                any
                other remedy, to temporary and permanent injunctive or other equitable
                relief without the necessity of proving actual damages or posting
                a
                bond. 

16. 

Severability   .
                In case one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement
                is for
                any reason held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect,
                the parties agree that it is their intent that the same will not
                affect
                any other provision in this Agreement, and this Agreement will be
                construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision
                had
                never been contained herein. It is the intent of the parties that
                this
                Agreement be enforced to the maximum extent permitted by
                law. 

17. 

Entire
                Agreement   .
                This Agreement embodies the entire agreement of the parties relating
                to
                the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements,
                oral or written, regarding the subject matter hereof. No amendment
                or
                modification of this Agreement will be valid or binding upon the
                parties
                unless made in writing and signed by the
                parties. 

7 

18. 

Governing
                Law   .
                This Agreement is entered into and will be interpreted and enforced
                pursuant to the laws of the State of New Jersey. The parties hereto
                hereby
                agree that the appropriate forum and venue for any disputes between
                any of
                the parties hereto arising out of this Agreement shall be any federal
                court in the state where the Employee has his principal place of
                residence
                and each of the parties hereto hereby submits to the personal jurisdiction
                of any such court. The foregoing shall not limit the rights of any
                party
                to obtain execution of judgment in any other jurisdiction. The parties
                further agree, to the extent permitted by law, that a final and
                unappealable judgment against either of them in any action or proceeding
                contemplated above shall be conclusive and may be enforced in any
                other
                jurisdiction within or outside the United States by suit on the judgment,
                a certified exemplified copy of which shall be conclusive evidence
                of the
                fact and amount of such judgment. 

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and
      year
      first above written. 

COMPANY:                    EMPLOYEE: 

LEVEL
      8
      SYSTEMS, INC. 

By:
      ____________________________        _______________________________ 

      Name:                       Anthony
      Pizi 

      Title:

8 

EXHIBIT
      A  

INVENTIONS   

Employee
      represents that there are no Inventions. 

_________________ 

                      Employee
      Initials 

9 

EXHIBIT
      B  

EXISTING
      RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS   

10 

EXHIBIT
      C  

       Incentive
      Compensation  

</EX-10.15>

<EX-10.16>
 7
 broderickemploymentagmt.htm
 EMPLOYEE AGREEMENT JOHN BRODERICK

Employee Agreement John Broderick

EMPLOYMENT
      AGREEMENT   

This
      Employment Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into this
      1   st   
      day of
      January, 2005, by and between LEVEL 8 SYSTEMS, INC., a Delaware corporation
      (the
 Company ), and John P. Broderick, a resident of the New Jersey (the
 Employee ).  

In
      consideration of the mutual covenants, promises and conditions set forth in
      this
      Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
      sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as
      follows: 

1. 

Employment   .
                The Company hereby employs Employee and Employee hereby accepts such
                employment upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

2. 

Duties
                of Employee   .
                Employee s title will be Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer
                and Corporate Secretary and Employee will report directly to the
                President
                of the Company. Employee will be based in New Jersey, but will travel
                to
                the Cary, North Carolina office as often as the job requirements
                dictate.
                Employee agrees to perform and discharge such other duties as may
                be
                assigned to Employee from time to time by the Company to the reasonable
                satisfaction of the Company, and such duties will be consistent with
                those
                duties regularly and customarily assigned by the Company to the position
                of Chief Financial Officer and Secretary. Employee agrees to comply
                with
                all of the Company's policies, standards and regulations and to follow
                the
                instructions and directives as promulgated by the President of the
                Company. Employee will devote Employee's full professional and
                business-related time, skills and best efforts to such duties and
                will
                not, during the term of this Agreement, be engaged (whether or not
                during
                normal business hours) in any other business or professional activity,
                whether or not such activity is pursued for gain, profit or other
                pecuniary advantage, without the prior written consent of the President
                of
                the Company. This Section will not be construed to prevent Employee
                from
                (a) investing personal assets in businesses which do not compete
                with the
                Company in such form or manner that will not require any services
                on the
                part of Employee in the operation or the affairs of the companies
                in which
                such investments are made and in which Employee's participation is
                solely
                that of an investor; (b) purchasing securities in any corporation
                whose
                securities are listed on a national securities exchange or regularly
                traded in the over-the-counter market, provided that Employee at
                no time
                owns, directly or indirectly, in excess of one percent (1%) of the
                outstanding stock of any class of any such corporation engaged in
                a
                business competitive with that of the Company; or (c) participating
                in
                conferences, preparing and publishing papers or books, teaching or
                joining
                or participating in any professional associations or trade group,
                so long
                as the President of the Company approves such participation, preparation
                and publication or teaching prior to Employee s engaging
                therein. 

3. 

Term   .
                The term of this Agreement will be at-will, and can be terminated
                by
                either party at any time, with or without cause, subject to the provisions
                of Section 4 of this Agreement.

1 

4. 

Termination   . 

(a) 

Termination
                by Company for Cause   .
                The Company may terminate this Agreement and all of its obligations
                hereunder immediately, including the obligation to pay Employee severance,
                vacation pay or any further benefits or remuneration, if any of the
                following events occur: 

(i) 

Employee
                materially breaches any of the terms or conditions set forth in this
                Agreement and fails to cure such breach within ten (10) days after
                Employee's receipt from the Company of written notice of such breach
                (notwithstanding the foregoing, no cure period shall be applicable
                to
                breaches by Employee of Sections 6, 7 or 8 of this
                Agreement); 

(ii) 

Employee
                commits any other act materially detrimental to the business or reputation
                of the Company; 

(iii) 

Employee
                engages in dishonest or illegal activities or commits or is convicted
                of
                any crime involving fraud, deceit or moral turpitude;
                or 

(iv) 

Employee
                dies or becomes mentally or physically incapacitated or disabled
                so as to
                be unable to perform Employee's duties under this Agreement even
                with a
                reasonable accommodation. Without limiting the generality of the
                foregoing, Employee's inability adequately to perform services under
                this
                Agreement for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days will be conclusive
                evidence of such mental or physical incapacity or disability, unless
                such
                inability adequately to perform services under this Agreement is
                pursuant
                to a mental or physical incapacity or disability covered by the Family
                Medical Leave Act, in which case such sixty (60) day period shall
                be
                extended to a one hundred and twenty (120) day
                period. 

(b) 

Termination
                by Company Without Cause   .
                The Company may terminate Employee's employment pursuant to this
                Agreement
                for reasons other than those stated in Section 4(a) upon at least
                thirty
                (30) days' prior written notice to Employee. In the event Employee's
                employment with the Company is terminated by the Company without
                cause,
                the Company shall be obligated to pay Employee a lump sum severance
                payment equal to six (6) months of Employee s then base salary payable
                within thirty (30) days of the date of termination. Other than the
                severance payment set forth in this Section 4(b), Employee will be
                entitled to receive no further remuneration and will not be entitled
                to
                participate in any Company benefit programs following his termination
                by
                the Company, whether such termination is with or without
                cause. 

(c) 

Termination
                by Employee for Cause   .
                In the event there occurs a Change in Control (as defined below)
                of the
                Company, Employee shall have the right
                to 

2 

resign
      his employment and will be entitled to a lump sum severance payment equal to
      twelve (12) months of Employee s then base salary payable within thirty (30)
      days of the date of termination and an additional severance payment of 250,000
      shares of the Company s common stock. The stock award will not subject to any
      customary adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and the like undertaken
      by the Company. In addition, all Employee s then outstanding but unvested stock
      options shall vest one hundred percent (100%). Employee shall have thirty (30)
      days from the date written notice is given to Employee about the announcement
      and closing of a transaction resulting in a Change in Control of the Company
      to
      resign or this Section 4(c) shall not apply. In the event Employee resigns
      from
      the Company for any other reason, Employee will not be entitled to receive
      or
      accrue any further Company benefits or other remuneration under this Agreement,
      and Employee specifically agrees that he will not be entitled to receive any
      severance pay. 

For
      purposes of this Section 4, a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred
      if any of the following occur: 

(i) 

the
                merger of consolidation of the Company with or into another unaffiliated
                entity, or the merger of another unaffiliated entity into the Company
                or
                another subsidiary thereof with the effect that immediately after
                such
                transaction the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to
                such
                transaction hold less than fifty percent (50%) of the total voting
                power
                of all securities generally entitled to vote in the election of directors,
                managers or trustees of the entity surviving such merger or
                consolidation; 

(ii) 

the
                sale or transfer of more than fifty-one percent (51%) of the Company s
                then outstanding voting stock (other than a restructuring event which
                results in the continuation of the Company s business by an affiliated
                entity) to unaffiliated person or group (as such term is used in
                Section
                13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended);
                or 

(iii) 

the
                adoption by the stockholders of the Company of a plan relating to
                the
                liquidation or dissolution of the
                Company. 

5.      Compensation
      and Benefits   .

(a) 

Annual
                Salary   .
                During the term of this Agreement and for all services rendered by
                Employee under this Agreement, the Company will pay Employee a base
                salary
                of Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000.00) per annum in equal
                bi-monthly installments. Such annual salary will be subject to adjustments
                by any increases given in the normal course of
                business. 

(b) 

Incentive
                Compensation   .
                Employee shall be eligible to receive incentive compensation in the
                form
                of a cash bonus, the amount of such cash bonus
                is 

3 

explained
      on Exhibit C, upon the Company reaching sales goals for the calendar year as
      set
      forth in the operating plan for the Company which was approved by the Board
      of
      Directors. Said bonus will be payable after the annual accounts have been
      presented to the Compensation Committee. Exhibit C attached hereto provides
      the
      benchmarks associated with achieving the Incentive Compensation. 

6. 

Vacation.   
                Employee shall be eligible for four (4) weeks of paid vacation annually,
                provided that such vacation is scheduled at such times that do not
                interfere with the Company s legitimate business
                needs. 

7. 

Other
                Benefits   .
                Employee will be entitled to such fringe benefits as may be provided
                from
                time-to-time by the Company to its employees, including, but not
                limited
                to, group health insurance, life and disability insurance, and any
                other
                fringe benefits now or hereafter provided by the Company to its employees,
                if and when Employee meets the eligibility requirements for any such
                benefit. The Company reserves the right to change or discontinue
                any
                employee benefit plans or programs now being offered to its employees;
                provided, however, that all benefits provided for employees of the
                same
                position and status as Employee will be provided to Employee on an
                equal
                basis. 

8. 

Business
                Expenses   .
                Employee will be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses incurred
                in the
                discharge of Employee's duties under this Agreement pursuant to the
                Company's standard reimbursement
                policies. 

9. 

Withholding   .
                The Company will deduct and withhold from the payments made to Employee
                under this Agreement, state and federal income taxes, FICA and other
                amounts normally withheld from compensation due
                employees. 

10. 

Non-Disclosure
                of Proprietary Information   .
                Employee recognizes and acknowledges that the Trade Secrets (as defined
                below) and Confidential Information (as defined below) of the Company
                and
                its affiliates and all physical embodiments thereof (as they may
                exist
                from time-to-time, collectively, the  Proprietary Information ) are
                valuable, special and unique assets of the Company's and its affiliates'
                businesses. Employee further acknowledges that access to such Proprietary
                Information is essential to the performance of Employee's duties
                under
                this Agreement. Therefore, in order to obtain access to such Proprietary
                Information, Employee agrees that, except with respect to those duties
                assigned to him by the Company, Employee shall hold in confidence
                all
                Proprietary Information and will not reproduce, use, distribute,
                disclose,
                publish or otherwise disseminate any Proprietary Information, in
                whole or
                in part, and will take no action causing, or fail to take any action
                necessary to prevent causing, any Proprietary Information to lose
                its
                character as Proprietary Information, nor will Employee make use
                of any
                such information for Employee's own purposes or for the benefit of
                any
                person, firm, corporation, association or other entity (except the
                Company) under any circumstances.

4 

For
      purposes of this Agreement, the term  Trade Secrets  means information,
      including, but not limited to, any technical or nontechnical data, formula,
      pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, drawing, process,
      financial data, financial plan, product plan, list of actual or potential
      customers or suppliers, or other information similar to any of the foregoing,
      which derives economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally
      known to, and not being readily ascertainable by proper means by, other persons
      who can derive economic value from its disclosure or use. For purposes of this
      Agreement, the term  Trade Secrets  does not include information that Employee
      can show by competent proof (i) was known to Employee and reduced to writing
      prior to disclosure by the Company (but only if Employee promptly notifies
      the
      Company of Employee s prior knowledge); (ii) was generally known to the public
      at the time the Company disclosed the information to Employee; (iii) became
      generally known to the public after disclosure by the Company through no act
      or
      omission of Employee; or (iv) was disclosed to Employee by a third party having
      a bona fide right both to possess the information and to disclose the
      information to Employee. The term  Confidential Information  means any data or
      information of the Company, other than trade secrets, which is valuable to
      the
      Company and not generally known to competitors of the Company. The provisions
      of
      this Section 6 will apply to Trade Secrets for so long as such information
      remains a trade secret and to Confidential Information during Employee s
      employment with the Company and for a period of two (2) years following any
      termination of Employee s employment with the Company for whatever
      reason. 

11. 

Non-Solicitation
                Covenants   .
                Employee agrees that during Employee's employment by the Company
                and for a
                period of one (1) year following the termination of Employee's employment
                for whatever reason, Employee will not, directly or indirectly, on
                Employee's own behalf or in the service of or on behalf of any other
                individual or entity, divert, solicit or attempt to divert or solicit
                any
                individual or entity (i) who is a client of the Company at any time
                during
                the six (6)-month period prior to Employee's termination of employment
                with the Company ( Client ), or was actively sought by the Company as a
                prospective client, and (ii) with whom Employee had material contact
                while
                employed by the Company to provide similar services or products as
                such
                provided by Employee for the Company to such Clients or prospects.
                Employee further agrees and represents that during Employee's employment
                by the Company and for a period of one (1) year following any termination
                of Employee's employment for whatever reason, Employee will not,
                directly
                or indirectly, on Employee's own behalf or in the service of, or
                on behalf
                of any other individual or entity, divert, solicit or hire away,
                or
                attempt to divert, solicit or hire away, to or for any individual
                or
                entity which is engaged in providing similar services or products
                to that
                provided by the Company, any person employed by the Company for whom
                Employee had supervisory responsibility or with whom Employee had
                material
                contact while employed by the Company, whether or not such employee
                is a
                full-time employee or temporary employee of the Company, whether
                or not
                such employee is employed pursuant to written agreement and whether
                or not
                such employee is employed for a determined period or at-will. For
                purposes
                of this Agreement,  material contact  exists between Employee and a Client
                or potential Client when (1) Employee established

5 

and/or
      nurtured the Client or potential Client; (2) the Client or potential Client
      and
      Employee interacted to further a business relationship or contract with the
      Company; (3) Employee had access to confidential information and/or marketing
      strategies or programs regarding the Client or potential Client; and/or (4)
      Employee learned of the Client or potential Client through the efforts of the
      Company providing Employee with confidential Client information, including
      but
      not limited to the Client s identify, for purposes of furthering a business
      relationship.  

12. 

Existing
                Restrictive Covenants   .
                Except as provided in Exhibit B, Employee has not entered into any
                agreement with any employer or former employer (a) to keep in confidence
                any confidential information or (b) to not compete with any former
                employer. Employee represents and warrants that Employee's employment
                with
                the Company does not and will not breach any agreement which Employee
                has
                with any former employer to keep in confidence confidential information
                or
                not to compete with any such former employer. Employee will not disclose
                to the Company or use on its behalf any confidential information
                of any
                other party required to be kept confidential by
                Employee. 

13. 

Return
                of Proprietary Information   .
                Employee acknowledges that as a result of Employee's employment with
                the
                Company, Employee may come into the possession and control of Proprietary
                Information, such as proprietary documents, drawings, specifications,
                manuals, notes, computer programs, or other proprietary material.
                Employee
                acknowledges, warrants and agrees that Employee will return to the
                Company
                all such items and any copies or excerpts thereof, and any other
                properties, files or documents obtained as a result of Employee's
                employment with the Company, immediately upon the termination of
                Employee's employment with the
                Company. 

14. 

Proprietary
                Rights   .
                During the course of Employee's employment with the Company, Employee
                may
                make, develop or conceive of useful processes, machines, compositions
                of
                matter, computer software, algorithms, works of authorship expressing
                such
                algorithm, or any other discovery, idea, concept, document or improvement
                which relates to or is useful to the Company's Business (the
                 Inventions ), whether or not subject to copyright or patent protection,
                and which may or may not be considered Proprietary Information. Employee
                acknowledges that all such Inventions will be  works made for hire  under
                United States copyright law and will remain the sole and exclusive
                property of the Company. Employee also hereby assigns and agrees
                to assign
                to the Company, in perpetuity, all right, title and interest Employee
                may
                have in and to such Inventions, including without limitation, all
                copyrights, and the right to apply for any form of patent, utility
                model,
                industrial design or similar proprietary right recognized by any
                state,
                country or jurisdiction. Employee further agrees, at the Company's
                request
                and expense, to do all things and sign all documents or instruments
                necessary, in the opinion of the Company, to eliminate any ambiguity
                as to
                the ownership of, and rights of the Company to, such Inventions,
                including
                filing copyright and patent registrations and defending and enforcing
                in
                litigation or otherwise all such rights.

6 

Employee
      will not be obligated to assign to the Company any Invention made by Employee
      while in the Company's employ which does not relate to any business or activity
      in which the Company is or may reasonably be expected to become engaged, except
      that Employee is so obligated if the same relates to or is based on
      ProprietaryInformation to which Employee will have had access during and by
      virtue of Employee's employment or which arises out of work assigned to Employee
      by the Company. Employee will not be obligated to assign any Invention which
      may
      be wholly conceived by Employee after Employee leaves the employ of the Company,
      except that Employee is so obligated if such Invention involves the utilization
      of Proprietary Information obtained while in the employ of the Company. Employee
      is not obligated to assign any Invention that relates to or would be useful
      in
      any business or activities in which the Company is engaged if such Invention
      was
      conceived and reduced to practice by Employee prior to Employee's employment
      with the Company. Employee agrees that any such Invention is set forth on
      Exhibit  A  to this Agreement. 

15. 

Remedies   .
                Employee agrees and acknowledges that the violation of any of the
                covenants or agreements contained in Sections 10, 11 and 14 of this
                Agreement would cause irreparable injury to the Company, that the
                remedy
                at law for any such violation or threatened violation thereof would
                be
                inadequate, and that the Company will be entitled, in addition to
                any
                other remedy, to temporary and permanent injunctive or other equitable
                relief without the necessity of proving actual damages or posting
                a
                bond. 

16. 

Severability   .
                In case one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement
                is for
                any reason held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect,
                the parties agree that it is their intent that the same will not
                affect
                any other provision in this Agreement, and this Agreement will be
                construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision
                had
                never been contained herein. It is the intent of the parties that
                this
                Agreement be enforced to the maximum extent permitted by
                law. 

17. 

Entire
                Agreement   .
                This Agreement embodies the entire agreement of the parties relating
                to
                the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements,
                oral or written, regarding the subject matter hereof. No amendment
                or
                modification of this Agreement will be valid or binding upon the
                parties
                unless made in writing and signed by the
                parties. 

18. 

Governing
                Law   .
                This Agreement is entered into and will be interpreted and enforced
                pursuant to the laws of the State of New Jersey. The parties hereto
                hereby
                agree that the appropriate forum and venue for any disputes between
                any of
                the parties hereto arising out of this Agreement shall be any federal
                court in the state where the Employee has his principal place of
                residence
                and each of the parties hereto hereby submits to the personal jurisdiction
                of any such court. The foregoing shall not limit the rights of any
                party
                to obtain execution of judgment in any other jurisdiction. The parties
                further agree, to the extent permitted by law, that a final and
                unappealable judgment against either of them in any action or proceeding
                contemplated above shall be conclusive and may be enforced in

7 

any
      other
      jurisdiction within or outside the United States by suit on the judgment, a
      certified exemplified copy of which shall be conclusive evidence of the fact
      and
      amount of such judgment. 

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and
      year
      first above written. 

COMPANY:                    EMPLOYEE: 

LEVEL
      8
      SYSTEMS, INC. 

By:
      ____________________________        _______________________________ 

      Name:                       John
      P.
      Broderick 

      Title:

8 

EXHIBIT
      A  

INVENTIONS   

Employee
      represents that there are no Inventions. 

_________________ 

                      Employee
      Initials 

9 

EXHIBIT
      B  

EXISTING
      RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS   

10 

EXHIBIT
      C  

VARIABLE
      COMPENSATION  

</EX-10.16>

<EX-21.1>
 8
 subsidiaries.htm
 LEVEL 8 SUBSIDIARIES

Level 8 Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries
      (all are 100% owned) 

Name  

Jurisdiction  

Level
                8 Technologies, Inc. 

Delaware 

Cicero
                Technologies, Inc, 

Delaware 

Template
                Software de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Level
                8 Systems Australia Pty Ltd 

Australia 

Template
                Software Holding GmbH 

Germany 

Template
                SoftwareGeschaftsfuhrungs GmbH 

Germany 

Template
                Software GmbH 

Germany 

Level
                8 Worldwide Holdings Ltd 

Delaware 

Seer
                Technologies de Argentina S.A 

Argentina 

Level
                8 FSC, Inc 

Barbados 

Level
                8 Benelux B.V 

Netherlands 

Seer
                Technologies do Brasil Ltd. 

Brazil 

Level
                8 Canada, Inc 

Canada 

Level
                8 Europe (Deutschland) GmbH 

Germany 

Level
                8 Ireland Limited 

Ireland 

Level
                8 Italia S.R.L. 

Italy 

Level
                8 Systems Nordic AB 

Sweden 

Seer
                Korea Co., Limited 

South
                Korea 

Seer
                Technologies Singapore PTY, Limited 

Singapore 

Seer
                Technologies Hong Kong Limited 

Hong
                Kong 

3020126
                Canada, Inc. (fka Bizware) 

Canada 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-22.1>
 9
 auditorconsent.htm
 MARGOLIS & COMPANY CONSENT

Margolis   Company Consent

Exhibit
        22.1 

CONSENT
        OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To
        the
        Board of Directors  

        Level
        8
        Systems, Inc. 

We
        consent to the incorporation by reference in the Annual Report on Form 10-K
        of
        our report dated March 23, 2006, (which report expresses an unqualified opinion
        and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the Company's ability to
        continue as a going concern) of Level 8 Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries for
        the
        year ended December 31, 2005. 

/s/Margolis
          Company P.C. 

Certified
        Public Accountants 

Bala
        Cynwyd, PA 

        March
        31,
        2006 

</EX-22.1>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 ceocert.htm
 302 CEO CERTIFICATION

302 CEO Certification

CERTIFICATIONS   

I,
      John
      P. Broderick, certify that: 

1.
           I
      have
      reviewed this yearly report on Form 10-K of Level 8 Systems, Inc.; 

2.

Based
                on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
                of a
                material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
                the
                statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
                were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
                report; 

3.

Based
                on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
                included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
                the
                financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
                registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
                report; 

4.

I
                am responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
                and
                procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
                and
                internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange
                Act
                Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))) for the registrant and
                have: 

a) 

designed
                such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
                controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
                ensure
                that material information relating to the registrant, including its
                consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
                entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
                being
                prepared; 

b) 

designed
                such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
                control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision
                to
                provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
                reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
                purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
                principles; 

c) 

evaluated
                the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
                and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
                of
                the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
                covered by this report based upon such evaluation;
                and 

d) 

disclosed
                in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
                financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
                fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
                to
                materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
                reporting; 

5.

I
                have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control
                over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
                committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing
                the
                equivalent functions): 

a) 

all
                significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
                operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
                reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
                process, summarize and report financial information;
                and 

b) 

any
                fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
                employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
                control
                over financial reporting. 

Date:
      March 31, 2006                                                    /s/
      John P. Broderick  

        John
      P.
      Broderick 

        Chief
      Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 cfocert.htm
 302 CFO CERTIFICATION

302 CFO Certification

CERTIFICATIONS   

I,
      John
      P. Broderick, certify that: 

1.
           I
      have
      reviewed this yearly report on Form 10-K of Level 8 Systems, Inc.; 

2.

Based
                on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
                of a
                material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
                the
                statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
                were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
                report; 

3.

Based
                on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
                included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
                the
                financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
                registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
                report; 

4.

I
                am responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
                and
                procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
                and
                internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange
                Act
                Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))) for the registrant and
                have: 

a) 

designed
                such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
                controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
                ensure
                that material information relating to the registrant, including its
                consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
                entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
                being
                prepared; 

b) 

designed
                such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
                control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision
                to
                provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
                reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
                purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
                principles; 

c) 

evaluated
                the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
                and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
                of
                the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
                covered by this report based upon such evaluation;
                and 

d) 

disclosed
                in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
                financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
                fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
                to
                materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
                reporting; 

5.

I
                have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control
                over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
                committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing
                the
                equivalent functions): 

a) 

all
                significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
                operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
                reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
                process, summarize and report financial information;
                and 

b) 

any
                fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
                employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
                control
                over financial reporting. 

Date:
      March 31, 2006                                                   /s/
      John P. Broderick  

        John
      P.
      Broderick 

        Chief
      Financial Officer 

        (Principal
      Accounting Officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 cert906.htm
 906 CEO AND CFO CERTIFICATION

906 CEO and CFO Certification

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO     

       18
      U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO     

       SECTION
      906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

In
      connection with the yearly report of Level 8 Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) on
      Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Security
      Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, John P. Broderick,
      Chief Executive and Financial Officer of Level 8 Systems, Inc., hereby certify
      pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:  

(1)           The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
           Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934; and  

(2) 

The
                information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
                respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Level
                8
                Systems, Inc. as of, and for the periods presented in the Report.

By:
                    /s/   John
                P.
                Broderick                             

John
                P. Broderick  

Chief
                Executive and Financial Officer  

(Principal
                Financial and Accounting Officer)  

March
                31, 2006 

</EX-32.1>

