<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_94784_0000950135-06-002018_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1156584</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>495981</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>449357</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>37</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950135-06-002018.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331143338
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950135-06-002018
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		18
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES INC /DE
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000094784
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				870277826
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-06533
		FILM NUMBER:		06727869

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		20 NEWBURY STREET
		STREET 2:		5TH FLOOR
		CITY:			BOSTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02116
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6174250200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		20 NEWBURY STREET
		STREET 2:		5TH FLOOR
		CITY:			BOSTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02116

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	GREENWICH PHARMACEUTICALS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STRATEGIC MEDICAL RESEARCH CORP /DE
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19790521

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CspOfj6WzTIHOBTzFyhII2KPtr49oA8y3Zj/6ckwuUR8UdCBu0dbpobUBGoQiXSO
 4TUGag0TEBxOOYTDoBWhRQ==

 0000950135-06-002018.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 b58962ble10vk.htm
 BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, DC 20549 

Form  10-K  

Commission file number 0-6533 

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) 

DELAWARE 

87-0277826  

(State or Other Jurisdiction of 
    Incorporation or Organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

85 MAIN STREET 
    HOPKINTON, MASSACHUSETTS 
       (Address of Principal Executive Offices)  

01748 
       (Zip Code)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code 

(508) 497-2360 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act: 

Title of Each Class  
       
      Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered  

None 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act: 

Common Stock, $.01 par value 

Warrants to Purchase Common Stock 

Rights to Purchase Preferred Stock 

(Title of Class) 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes              No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days. Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation  S-K  is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form  10-K  or any
amendment to this
Form  10-K.        

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
filer              Accelerated
filer              Non-accelerated
filer   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange
Act).     Yes              No   

Based on the last sales price of the registrant s Common
Stock as reported on the NASDAQ Capital Market on June 30,
2005 (the last business day of our most recently completed
second fiscal quarter), the aggregate market value of the
8,405,881 outstanding shares of voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was $17,652,350.

As of March 23, 2006, there were 16,507,244 shares of
the registrant s Common Stock issued and outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 

Portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission relative to
the registrant s 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are
incorporated by reference into Items 10, 11, 12, 13
and 14 of Part III of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PART I   

ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS  

3 

ITEM 1A. 

RISK FACTORS  

20 

ITEM 1B. 

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

40 

ITEM 2. 

PROPERTIES  

40 

ITEM 3. 

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

40 

ITEM 4. 

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
    HOLDERS  

40 

PART II   

ITEM 5. 

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON
    EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
    EQUITY SECURITIES  

41 

ITEM 6. 

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA  

42 

ITEM 7. 

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
    OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

43 

ITEM 7A. 

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
    ABOUT MARKET RISK  

53 

ITEM 8. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
    DATA  

54 

ITEM 9. 

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
    ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

84 

ITEM 9A. 

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

84 

ITEM 9B. 

OTHER INFORMATION  

84 

PART III   

ITEM 10. 

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
    REGISTRANT  

84 

ITEM 11. 

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

85 

ITEM 12. 

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
    OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

85 

ITEM 13. 

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
    TRANSACTIONS  

85 

ITEM 14. 

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

85 

PART IV   

ITEM 15. 

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
    SCHEDULES  

85 

SIGNATURES  

87 

EXHIBIT INDEX  

88 

EX-4.1 SPECIMEN CERTIFICATE EVIDENCING SHARES OF COMMON STOCK    
     EX-10.28 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION SUMMARY    
     EX-10.29 EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION SUMMARY    
     EX-10.48 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 3/31/06 - SAVAS    
     EX-10.49 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 3/31/06 - PYKETT    
     EX-10.50 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 3/31/06 - RICE    
     EX-10.51 STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 1/6/06 - SAVAS    
     EX-10.52 STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 1/6/06 - PYKETT    
     EX-10.53 STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 1/6/06 - RICE    
     EX-10.54 FORM OF INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION    
     EX-10.55 FORM OF NON-STATUTORY STOCK OPTION    
     EX-21 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT    
     EX-23 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP    
     EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.E.O.    
     EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.F.O.    
     EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.E.O.    
     EX-32.2 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.F.O.    

2

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Item 1.  
     
      Business.   

Overview 

We are a development stage biotechnology company engaged in the
research and development of biopharmaceutical products for the
diagnosis and treatment of central nervous system, or CNS,
disorders. Our current product candidate pipeline includes
diagnostic and therapeutic programs based on proprietary
technologies. We are developing diagnostic agents in molecular
imaging, and therapeutic drugs for axon regeneration, blockade
of the Dopamine Transporter, or DAT, and anti-angiogenesis. Our
programs target unmet medical needs in the diagnosis and
treatment of Parkinson s Disease, or PD, the diagnosis of
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, or ADHD, the treatment
of stroke and the treatment of certain ocular conditions.

We have an attractive pipeline of clinical and preclinical
product candidates for which we control worldwide commercial
rights. Our most advanced product candidate is the
ALTROPANE   
molecular imaging agent. ALTROPANE is in Phase III
development as an aid in the diagnosis of Parkinsonian
Syndromes, or PS, and in Phase II development as an aid in
the diagnosis of ADHD. We have an active preclinical development
program focused on next generation imaging agents and our CNS
therapeutics. A second generation technetium-based agent for
diagnosing PD and ADHD, is in preclinical development with an
Investigational New Drug application, or IND, submission date
targeted during the fourth quarter of 2007. We are also
developing additional molecular imaging agents for use in
Positron Emission Tomography, or PET, and Magnetic Resonance
Imaging, or MRI, scanning for the diagnosis of PD, ADHD and
possibly other difficult to diagnose CNS disorders.

Our axon regeneration program is aimed at enhancing functional
recovery in stroke, spinal cord and traumatic brain injury. We
have an IND application on clinical hold pending the submission
of additional pharmacology and toxicology data to the Food and
Drug Administration, or FDA, regarding our lead product
candidate in axon regeneration, INOSINE, with a goal of starting
a Phase I trial in stroke. Our DAT blocker program is aimed
at symptom management and modification of disease progression in
PD. Candidate molecules that block the DAT are in preclinical
development for the treatment of PD. These preclinical studies
are anticipated to support an IND submission date targeted
during the first half of 2008. We are conducting early proof of
concept studies in animal models for our anti-angiogenesis and
axon regeneration product candidates in the ocular field to
treat glaucoma, wet age-related macular degeneration, or AMD,
and diabetic retinopathy.

Our goal is to become a profitable biotechnology company and an
industry leader in the research and development of therapeutic
and diagnostic products for CNS disorders. Our strategy is to
continue advancing our product candidates to market. We focus
our efforts both on programs that we may control throughout the
development and commercialization phases and programs that we
expect will involve a collaborator. We support sponsored
academic research with notable university affiliates in the
Boston area to broaden our intellectual property estate. We also
seek to license and acquire technologies, resources and products
that have the potential to strengthen our product pipeline.

We believe that our core competencies are represented in our
management team, our preclinical and clinical development
expertise and in our willingness and ability to form
partnerships to maximize the value of our assets. Further, we
believe that a near-term opportunity exists to take advantage of
market dynamics and financing conditions in our sector that we
believe could enable us to acquire on favorable terms select
biotechnology and drug development companies that have sound
technical foundations, strong technical leadership, and
shareholders amenable to change and further investment in the
combined entity.

3

Table of Contents   

Our strategy to accelerate the creation of value is predicated
on:

Growth through acquisitions of complementary companies, products
    and technologies; 

Continued development of the preclinical and clinical product
    candidates in our pipeline; 

Expansion and protection of our intellectual property; and 

Select, appropriately timed partnerships to advance development
    and commercialization of our product candidates. 

In the fall of 2004, under the guidance of a newly appointed
Board of Directors, we began implementing a 3 year program
to re-brand, re-build, revitalize and expand our Company to
create meaningful value appreciation for our shareholders. We
believe we have made significant progress on our program
including:

Restructuring and simplifying our balance sheet; 

Improving our credibility with financial and industry
    communities; and 

Revitalizing our development programs. 

For the foreseeable future, we expect to experience continuing
operating losses and negative cash flows from operations as our
management executes our current business plan. The cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable securities available at
December 31, 2005 will not provide sufficient working
capital to meet our anticipated expenditures for the next twelve
months. We believe that the cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities available at December 31, 2005 and
our ability to control certain costs, including those related to
clinical trial programs, preclinical activities, and certain
general and administrative expenses will enable us to meet our
anticipated cash expenditures through June 2006. We will
therefore need to raise additional capital through one or more
of the following: collaboration, merger, acquisition or other
transaction with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology
companies, or through a debt financing or equity offering to
continue as a going concern. We are currently engaged in
collaboration, merger, acquisition and other related fundraising
efforts. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be
successful in our collaboration, merger, acquisition or other
fundraising efforts or that additional funds will be available
on acceptable terms, if at all. In connection with our common
stock financing completed by us in March 2005, we agreed with
the purchasers in such financing, or the March 2005 Investors,
that, subject to certain exceptions, we would not issue any
shares of our common stock at a per share price less than $2.50
without the prior consent of the purchasers holding a majority
of the shares issued in such financing. On March 23, 2006,
the closing price of our common stock was $2.87. The failure to
receive the requisite waiver or consent of the March 2005
Investors could have the effect of delaying or preventing the
consummation of a financing by us. If we are unable to raise
additional capital we may need to reduce, cease or delay one or
more of our research or development programs and adjust our
current business plan.

Our ability to continue development of our programs, including
our Phase III program of ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent
as a diagnostic for PS, the Phase II program of ALTROPANE
molecular imaging agent as a diagnostic for ADHD, and our
preclinical programs including those in axon regeneration, PD
therapeutics and ocular therapeutics may be affected by the
availability of financial resources to fund each program.
Financial considerations may cause us to modify planned
development activities for one or more of our programs, and we
may decide to suspend development of one or more programs until
we are able to secure additional working capital. If we are not
able to raise additional capital, we may not have sufficient
funds to complete our Phase III clinical trial program of
ALTROPANE as a diagnostic for PS or the Phase II program of
ALTROPANE as a diagnostic for ADHD.

We were organized in 1992 and are incorporated in Delaware. Our
principal executive offices are located at 85 Main Street,
Hopkinton, Massachusetts 01748, and our telephone number is
(508) 497-2360.

4

Table of Contents   

In this Annual Report of
Form  10-K,  the
terms  Boston Life Sciences , the  Company ,
 we ,  us  and  our  include
Boston Life Sciences, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The following
are trademarks of ours that are mentioned in this Annual Report
on Form  10-K: 
ALTROPANE   
and
FLUORATEC  tm  .
Other trademarks used in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  are the
property of their respective owners.

Product Development 

Molecular Imaging Program  

ALTROPANE Molecular Imaging Agent   

Background  

The ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent is a radiolabeled imaging
agent that contains the radioactive element
 123 I
and binds with extremely high affinity and specificity to the
DAT. The DAT is a protein that is on the surface membrane of
specialized neurons in the brain that produce dopamine, a key
neurotransmitter. ALTROPANE was invented by researchers at
Harvard University and its affiliated hospitals, which we refer
to as Harvard and its Affiliates, including the Massachusetts
General Hospital. We have licensed worldwide exclusive rights to
develop ALTROPANE. The license agreement provides for milestone
payments and royalties based on product sales that are
consistent with industry averages for such products. We are
developing ALTROPANE as an aid in the diagnosis of PS and
related movement disorders, including PD. We are also developing
ALTROPANE as a diagnostic for ADHD.

The ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent selectively binds to the
DAT in the brain. We believe that the amount of ALTROPANE taken
up by the brain is therefore directly proportional to the number
of DATs that are present in any given area of the brain. Since
DATs are on the membrane of dopamine-producing cells,
destruction of these cells results in decreased numbers of DATs.
Therefore, PD, which is caused by a decreased number of dopamine
producing cells, is associated with a marked decrease in the
number of DATs. As a result, when ALTROPANE is administered to
patients with PD, its binding is substantially diminished as
compared to patients without PD. This marked decrease in
ALTROPANE binding in patients with PD is the theoretical basis
for using ALTROPANE imaging as a diagnostic test for PS,
including PD.

The route of administration for ALTROPANE is by intravenous
injection. Since ALTROPANE contains radioactive
 123 I,
it can be used as a nuclear imaging agent that can be detected
using a specialized nuclear medicine instrument known as a
Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography, or SPECT, camera.
The strength of the SPECT signal generated by ALTROPANE is
proportional to the number of DATs present and produces readily
distinguishable images in PS and non-PS patients. SPECT cameras
are widely available in both community and academic medical
centers. The scanning procedure using ALTROPANE takes about 40
minutes to complete. Results of these tests are usually
available the same day as the scanning procedure.

Diagnostic for Parkinsonian Syndromes (PS)   

Background  

Parkinsonian Syndromes are characterized by presynaptic loss of
dopamine-producing cells resulting in a variety of movement
disorders, especially tremors and gait problems. The most
prevalent form of PS is PD which is a chronic, irreversible,
neurodegenerative disease that generally affects people over
50 years old. PD is caused by a significant decrease in the
number of dopamine producing cells in specific areas of the
brain. Inadequate production of dopamine causes, at least in
part, the PD symptoms of resting tremor, muscle retardation and
rigidity. PD afflicts approximately 500,000 to 1,500,000 people
in the United States and approximately 4,000,000 individuals
worldwide. The number of individuals affected by PD is expected
to grow substantially as people continue to live longer and the
overall population ages. PD can be difficult to diagnose using
subjective analyses and can be confused with Essential Tremor,
or ET. ET manifests with clinical symptoms very similar to those
of PD. However, ET is not a neurodegenerative condition and
patients with the condition do not need the drugs routinely
prescribed to PD patients.

5

Table of Contents   

Need for an Objective Diagnosis  

To our knowledge, there is presently no objective test
commercially available in the United States to diagnose PS and
to differentiate it from other movement disorders. According to
published data, subjective analyses used to diagnose PS is prone
to high error rates. This highlights the critical need for an
effective diagnostic. Presently, patients who have experienced
tremors and other evidence of a movement disorder may pursue
diagnosis and treatment with a number of medical professionals.
These include an individual s family doctor, a neurologist,
or a movement disorder specialist, or MDS, whose practice is
focused on movement disorders.

Patients can exhibit symptoms and/or have clinical histories
that are inconclusive. A primary tool utilized to diagnose PD or
PS is a clinical history and a physical exam. However, studies
in the literature have reported error rates in diagnosing PD or
PS from a low of 10% for MDSs to as high as 40 to 50% for
general practitioners.

This high error rate is driving the need for a diagnostic test
that provides physicians with additional clinical information to
help them make a definitive diagnosis when clinical symptoms and
the patient s history are inconclusive. Further, while the
accuracy of MDSs is reported to be higher, the number of MDSs in
the United States is limited with current estimates between 300
and 500. The limited availability of MDSs underscores the
potential utility of a widely available diagnostic tool such as
ALTROPANE.

There are a number of important and potentially harmful results
associated with misdiagnosis. These include:

Patients who are improperly diagnosed as having PD but actually
    do not (false positive) may be administered medications for PD.
    These drugs can have damaging effects on individuals who do not
    actually have PD. 

Patients who are improperly diagnosed as not having PD but
    actually do (false negative), may not benefit from available
    treatments, thereby suffering further worsening of symptoms and
    progression of their disease. 

Phase I and Phase II Trials  

Our Phase I trial for ALTROPANE enrolled 39 patients.
Our Phase II trial for ALTROPANE enrolled 37 patients
and indicated that patients with early or mild PD were reliably
differentiated from unaffected patients based on the ALTROPANE
molecular imaging agent scan results. The differentiation of PD
patients from unaffected patients was demonstrated by the
distinct differences in binding potential. The highest binding
potential for a PD patient (0.66) was still well below the
lowest binding potential seen in an unaffected patient (0.90).
Qualitative assessment of the scans revealed moderate to marked
decrease in at least one quadrant of the striatum in the brain
of PD patients compared to the unaffected patients. There were
no ALTROPANE related serious adverse events reported in the
studies.

Phase III Trial   Differentiate PS Movement
    Disorders from Non-PS Movement Disorders  

Our initial Phase III study was designed to confirm the
utility of imaging with ALTROPANE to differentiate PS movement
disorders (including PD) from other non-PS movement disorders.
The study assessed SPECT scans using ALTROPANE in a sample
population representative of those individuals that consult with
neurologists or internists for undiagnosed movement disorders.
The trial s endpoints for sensitivity and specificity were
met on a statistically significant basis. The study enrolled 100
subjects having the clinical diagnosis of PS and
65 patients having non-PS movement disorders. The clinical
diagnosis of patients in the trial was made by MDSs. ALTROPANE
SPECT scans were performed on each subject and reviewed by an
independent three-member panel of nuclear medicine physicians
specializing in neuroimaging who had no knowledge of the
clinical diagnosis. The ALTROPANE scans were read and
categorized as being consistent with either PS or non-PS and
were then compared to the expert clinical diagnosis. There were
no ALTROPANE related serious adverse events reported in the
study.

6

Table of Contents   

Following completion of our initial Phase III trial, we had
a series of meetings and discussions with the FDA regarding the
clinical trial data that we had accumulated to date. The purpose
of these communications and conferences was to determine what
additional clinical information would be required for a New Drug
Application, or NDA.

Phase III Trial   Parkinson s or
    Essential Tremor (POET-1)  

In April 2004, we reached an agreement with the FDA under the
Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, process regarding our
protocol design for a new Phase III clinical trial of
ALTROPANE designed to distinguish PS from non-PS in patients
with tremors. This trial was designed to enroll a minimum of
500 patients and required that the statistical significance
of the results reach a p-value of less than 0.02. Under the SPA,
interim analysis of trial data was not permitted. Patient
enrollment in this trial was initiated in July 2004 and
continued into 2005. In August 2005, we reached agreement with
the FDA on a new SPA providing for an amended Phase III
program that specified two clinical protocols:
1) Parkinson s or Essential Tremor-1, or POET-1, and
2) a new protocol Parkinson s or Essential Tremor-2,
or POET-2. This new SPA permitted us to conduct two smaller
Phase III trials and lower the statistical endpoint hurdle
of the two trials from p 0.02 to p 0.05. The FDA agreed
to allow all subjects enrolled under the terms of the old SPA to
be retained for purposes of the new SPA. Under the new SPA,
interim analysis of data was still not permitted. Publication of
the results of POET-1 prior to the completion of POET-2 was also
prohibited. POET-1 and POET-2 were to occur sequentially. The
primary endpoint for POET-1 is the confirmation that the
diagnostic accuracy of the ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent is
statistically superior to the diagnostic accuracy of the
internist or general practitioner. A diagnosis of an MDS was
utilized as the  gold standard.  Based on certain
statistical and modeling assumptions, we initially estimated
that the POET-1 trial would require enrollment of approximately
332 subjects to meet the endpoints and be statistically
significant.

After a series of discussions with the FDA, in March 2006, we
notified the FDA that we elected to terminate our SPA and end
POET-1 enrollment so we could analyze the complete set of
clinical data for efficacy. No safety issues were identified in
the trial. Based on the previous performance of ALTROPANE and
our permitted monitoring of non-blinded data from the
approximately 200 patients enrolled in the POET-1 trial to
date, statistical modeling indicated that POET-1 may have
already enrolled enough subjects in the trial to evaluate the
efficacy of ALTROPANE. We based our original plan for enrolling
332 subjects in POET-1 in part on published reports in
scientific journals that indicated a 20 to 30 percent
misdiagnosis rate in the early stages of PD. Our review of the
data from subjects enrolled in the POET-1 trial indicates that
the error rate of general practitioners who participated in
POET-1 is much higher. As such, the statistical modeling
indicates that if the performance of ALTROPANE in POET-1 is
consistent with its historical performance in earlier trials,
statistical significance may be achieved after enrolling
slightly over half the originally planned number of subjects. We
expect to receive results of the data analysis during the third
quarter of 2006. After review of the results, we will determine
the future clinical development plan for the ALTROPANE program,
including, but not limited to POET-2. There can be no assurance
that POET-1 has achieved statistical significance.

New Drug Application  

We are currently in the process of assembling the necessary
safety and clinical databases required as part of an NDA
submission for ALTROPANE. Preparation and submission of an NDA
is typically a time consuming and costly process. There can be
no assurance that the trials will be successful, that we will
have sufficient resources to complete and submit the NDA, that
we will be able to assemble the required information required
for an NDA submission, or that the FDA will not request
additional clinical trial data or other regulatory information
before it will accept an NDA submission for ALTROPANE.

Market Opportunity  

It has been estimated that approximately 140,000 individuals in
the United States per year present to their physician with new,
undiagnosed movement disorders such as PD and ET, and are
therefore

7

Table of Contents   

candidates for the ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent scan to
diagnose or rule out early PS. Additionally, it has been
estimated that the number of people in the United States with PD
is between 500,000 and 1,500,000.

Diagnostic for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
    (ADHD)   

Background  

ADHD is the most commonly diagnosed behavioral disorder in
children and is among the fastest growing psychiatric disorder
in adults. ADHD is characterized by inattention, impulsivity and
hyperactivity. It is estimated that between 3 and 7 percent
of children have ADHD, or approximately 4,000,000 children in
the United States. ADHD often continues to manifest throughout a
patient s adolescence and into adulthood. It is estimated
that 30 to 70 percent of children with ADHD still meet the
diagnostic criteria in adolescence and adulthood.

It is also estimated that 2 to 4 percent of adults are
affected by ADHD. Adults with ADHD tend to have fewer problems
with hyperactivity, but more problems with inattention and
distractibility. Many patients with ADHD often express other
psychiatric disorders as well, such as depression, anxiety,
obsessive compulsive disorder, and alcohol and substance abuse.

ADHD is a chronic disorder. Therefore, it is considered
important for a physician to establish a continuing plan for
monitoring, evaluating and optimizing treatment plans. ADHD is
typically treated with stimulant medications. It should be
noted, however, that there is controversy over the long-term use
of these stimulant medications, particularly in children.

ADHD is currently diagnosed according to a set of behavioral
criteria defined in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, or
DSM, used by psychiatrists. This manual provides clinicians with
the currently accepted list of diagnostic criteria to use in
diagnosing the vast majority of mental disorders. A
comprehensive evaluation is necessary to establish a diagnosis,
rule out other causes and determine the presence or absence of
co-morbid conditions. Such evaluation should include a clinical
assessment of the individual s academic, social, emotional,
functional and developmental capabilities. Because these signs
are difficult to categorize, the guidelines for diagnosing ADHD
are very specific. According to the DSM, the diagnosis of ADHD
requires that patients exhibit three broad behavioral symptoms
that may be indicative of the disease: inattentiveness;
hyperactivity; and impulsiveness. In children and teenagers, the
symptoms are typically more frequent or more severe than in
other children the same age. In adults, the symptoms generally
impair a patient s ability to function normally in daily
life. In addition, the behaviors must create significant
difficulty in at least two areas of a patient s life, such
as at home, in social settings, at school or at work. Finally,
symptoms must be present for at least six consecutive months.

Need for an Objective Diagnosis  

While these criteria provide a structural framework for
diagnosing ADHD, it has not been possible to validate these
criteria against an objective biological standard. The lack of a
definitive biological basis for ADHD has led to confusion
concerning the diagnosis of ADHD. We believe that current
diagnostic methods result in the frequent misdiagnosis of ADHD.
As such, the introduction of an objective test to assist in the
definitive diagnosis of ADHD would help avoid the unnecessary
treatment of patients who have behavioral and psychiatric
problems unrelated to ADHD. An objective test would also
identify those patients who have not received treatment for the
condition because of inadequate diagnostic methods.

Researchers have recently postulated, but have not been able to
confirm, that ADHD may be linked to an abnormality in the DAT. A
number of stimulant medications, including
RITALIN   
and other newer therapeutics, currently constitute the most
prescribed treatment for the broadly described disorder labeled
ADHD. RITALIN, in part, binds to the DAT and blocks dopamine
reuptake. Since there has not been an objective test available,
the increasing use of potentially addictive drugs among children
has prompted vigorous public debate amongst educators, parents
and the medical community.

8

Table of Contents   

Physician s Sponsored IND  

The first clinical study utilizing the ALTROPANE molecular
imaging agent for the early diagnosis of ADHD was conducted
under a Physician s Sponsored IND application. Adult
patients with ADHD underwent SPECT scans using ALTROPANE and
were found to have a significant elevation in the number of DATs
in the midbrain. All of the patients tested showed this
abnormality. The excessive number of dopamine transporters found
in the brain in these ADHD subjects suggests that this may be a
detectable biochemical abnormality in at least some individuals
presenting with symptoms of ADHD. The results of the study were
subsequently published in the British medical journal,  The
Lancet. 

Phase II Trials  

Our initial Phase II trial, consisting of 40 adult
patients, was designed to expand and elaborate on the findings
obtained in the Physician s Sponsored IND trial. The
results of the trial indicated that the ALTROPANE molecular
imaging agent was a successful indicator of adults with
long-standing expertly-diagnosed ADHD. In this Phase II
study, adults (ages 20-40) diagnosed by clinical experts as
having ADHD had statistically significant elevations in the
number of their brain dopamine transporters compared to
unaffected (non-ADHD) individuals of the same age group. The 40
subject study was carried out at four academic medical
institutions in the United States and the data analysis was
performed at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. The
statistically significant separation of ADHD from unaffected
individuals based on the ALTROPANE SPECT scan in this study
confirmed the results of the Physician s Sponsored IND
study.

A Phase IIb trial was initiated in order to confirm the
results of the first Phase II trial and to test the
validity of a newly-developed imaging processing algorithm that
could potentially be used to more effectively separate ADHD
patients from normal individuals. We are currently analyzing the
imaging results and the clinical data obtained from patients
enrolled to-date in our Phase IIb clinical trial using the
ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent for the diagnosis of ADHD to
ensure that the trial design and quantitation algorithms are
appropriate for this patient population. We are also
collaborating with outside experts to validate and refine the
algorithm used to interpret the scans to ensure consistent and
reproducible results. There can be no assurance that we will
proceed with our Phase IIb trial, or if continued, that it
will be successfully completed.

Market Opportunity  

It has been estimated that 2 to 4% of adults and 3 to 7% of
school-age children in the United States have ADHD. We believe
that an effective diagnostic for ADHD will enable physicians to
identify those patients that have ADHD versus those who suffer
from other behavioral disorders. For treatment to be successful,
it is important to distinguish ADHD from other behavior or
learning disorders. Many children carry ADHD into adulthood
which may not only result in failure in school early in life but
also underachievement later in life.

Technetium-Based Molecular Imaging Agent   

Background  

To increase the acceptance of a DAT molecular imaging agent, we
are developing a new compound that will selectively bind the
same DAT protein recognized by ALTROPANE. The new compound will
incorporate the technetium-99m, or
 99m Tc,
radiolabel which is normally available from a
 99m Tc
generator in hospital radiopharmacies. The SPECT imaging agent
will be prepared on site by a nuclear medicine department using
our supplied kit rather than being centrally prepared and
distributed as ALTROPANE is today. This new agent will be
designed to function in a SPECT scan in a very similar manner to
that of ALTROPANE. The imaging agent developed will pass through
the blood brain barrier after intravenous injection and rapidly
and selectively bind the DAT protein in the brain (striatum
region) with high affinity. Unbound agent will clear the brain
rapidly to allow high contrast SPECT scans on the day of
administration. Under the correct conditions, the SPECT scan
data reflect the number of DAT proteins.

9

Table of Contents   

This is useful in the diagnoses and detection of diseases or
conditions that reduce or increase the number of dopamine
neurons or the concentration of DAT proteins on the neurons,
such as in PD or ADHD.

We licensed worldwide exclusive rights to develop
 99m Tc-based
molecular imaging agents similar to ALTROPANE. The license
agreement provides for milestone payments and royalties based on
product sales that are consistent with industry averages for
such products.

Primate studies using our two
 99m Tc-incorporated
compounds previously developed, TECHNEPINE and
FLUORATEC  tm  ,
have demonstrated that they are taken up by the DAT proteins in
the normal brain in sufficient quantity to provide a readable
image. Primates with experimentally-induced PD had markedly
decreased uptake of both imaging agents.

Before attempting definitive
 proof-of -concept
studies in humans, however, we are further developing the
manufacturing of the kit components as well as standardizing the
 99m Tc
incorporation methodology.

Preclinical Development  

Our
 99m Tc-based
molecular imaging program is in preclinical development. We have
begun the work necessary to produce the essential starting
materials as well as development of further
 99m Tc-labeling
process improvements. Using the new labeling methods, we will
perform appropriate animal preclinical studies, and then, if the
results are favorable, conduct definitive
 proof-of -concept
studies in humans. In parallel, our discovery program in this
area is focused on developing additional new compounds similar
to ALTROPANE to be used with
 99m Tc.

We expect to submit an IND for our lead technetium-based
molecular imaging agent during the fourth quarter of 2007. There
can be no assurance that resources will be available to continue
and complete the development activities being conducted, that
the program will result in data that supports the continued
development required to file an IND, or that we will be able to
submit an IND during the fourth quarter of 2007.

Market Opportunity  

We believe that the ability to follow ALTROPANE to market with a
second-generation technetium-based molecular imaging agent would
give us a long-term competitive advantage. The use of technetium
could offer
 ease-of -use, cost,
manufacturing and distribution advantages.

Other Molecular Imaging Agents   

Background  

We are developing other molecular imaging agents that combine
the DAT selective properties of ALTROPANE with other unique
properties. Our goal is to develop compounds that function with
Positron Emission Tomography, or PET, and compounds suitable for
Magnetic Resonance Imaging, or MRI. In addition to PS and ADHD,
there is the possibility that these new agents could be used to
diagnose other presently difficult to diagnose CNS disorders.
These programs are in the discovery phase of development.

PET Imaging Agent  

PET cameras detect the two gamma rays that are generated when
the positron emitted from certain isotopes, such as
 18 F,
collide with an electron. PET cameras are less widely available
today than SPECT instruments. However, PET cameras are becoming
more common and could offer a distinct advantage in scan clarity
as compared to SPECT scans.

A pilot PET study in monkeys, using
 11 C
as the radiolabel instead of
 123 I,
demonstrated the feasibility of a molecule similar to ALTROPANE
as a PET imaging agent. However,
 11 C
is not readily available and has too short a half-life, whereas
 18 F
is routinely commercially available and has half-life long
enough to be practical. Therefore, methods for synthesis of a
 18 F
version of a molecule similar to ALTROPANE are being developed.

10

Table of Contents   

MRI Imaging Agent  

MRI detection of a DAT binding agent would eliminate the need
for radioactivity, but it is not clear that sufficient signal
strength can be obtained using any existing ALTROPANE-like
compounds. A selection of the most appropriate available
compounds will be assessed before we initiate preclinical
studies.

Axon Regeneration Program    

Background  

Injuries to the brain and spinal cord can result in severe
disability. In a limited way, backup or so-called accessory
nerve pathways can partially compensate for those that have been
destroyed, resulting in some recovery with rehabilitation,
particularly after stroke. It has been widely believed that
human beings are not capable of regenerating damaged or
destroyed nerves in their CNS leading to the conclusion that
recovery of function in severely injured patients is not
possible or likely. Most research to date has focused on
preventing further damage to nerves as a result of a stroke,
spinal cord injury or traumatic brain injury; so-called
 neuroprotection . However, ongoing research by our
scientific collaborators and others has indicated that axons,
the portion of nerves that permit connections and signaling
between nerve cells, can be induced to grow potentially enabling
function controlled by damaged nerves to return. Published
studies have begun to describe and analyze, for the first time,
pathways inside and outside of nerve cells that facilitate axon
regeneration, allowing molecular targets for drug candidates to
be identified and evaluated. This research could potentially
provide an avenue by which drug intervention could be utilized
to support functional recovery in severe CNS injury. These
studies have identified certain factors that stimulate axon
regeneration and others whose presence inhibit axon
regeneration. Importantly, these studies have reduced the
uncertainty around functional recovery premised on axon
regeneration and clearly distinguished it from neuroprotection.

We believe that these factors may provide a therapeutic benefit
to CNS injury patients over other forms of treatment. For
example, ischemic stroke is caused by an acute blockage of a
blood vessel to a specific area of the brain. Depending on the
extent of the brain area serviced by this vessel, clinical
consequences of it being blocked range from minor debility to
death. As far as we know, current drug therapies, both approved
or in development, are focused on minimizing the damage to the
affected region of the brain, either by reversing the blockage
(by clot dissolution) or by protecting brain cells from the
ischemic injury (cytoprotective or neuroprotective agents).
However, these agents are unable to promote robust functional
recovery once the damage is complete. Furthermore, these
 neuroprotective  treatments must be started within
hours of the stroke because nerve cells die very quickly. We and
our collaborators believe that axon regeneration can be induced
or augmented by treatment with a unique set of compounds that
were demonstrated to induce axon sprouting in cell culture and
in rodents. The factors do not work by limiting or reversing the
brain damage caused by the stroke-induced interruption of
arterial blood flow, such as is proposed for neuroprotectants,
but instead stimulate the formation of new axonal branches and
connections. Our studies have shown that in a rat model of
stroke, treatment with one of our axon regeneration factors can
begin over 12 hours after the completed stroke and still
restore motor function. However, clot dissolving and
neuroprotective treatments must be given within a few hours of
stroke onset to achieve any benefit. Clinically, neuroprotective
and clot dissolving approaches have failed when given after the
stroke is complete or after there has been significant brain
cell death and a functionally important region of the brain has
been definitively destroyed by stroke. In contrast, after the
stroke is complete, the axon regeneration factors promote motor
function recovery through the formation of new axonal branches
and connections.

We have licensed from Children s Hospital of Boston
worldwide rights to a portfolio of factors involved in axon
regeneration. Research has shown that these factors stimulate a
novel intracellular enzyme, N-kinase, or MST3b, which is thought
to be a master switch for axon regeneration. Since axons form
the connections between neurons of the brain and spinal cord, we
believe that the capacity of these

11

Table of Contents   

factors to promote axon regeneration provides a potential means
to re-establish connections following CNS damage suffered in
stroke, traumatic brain injury or spinal cord injury.

Preclinical Development  

Experiments and animal tests, including those conducted by our
principal collaborating scientist, Dr. Larry Benowitz and
his colleagues at Children s Hospital in Boston, have
reported significant accomplishments in the field of axon
regeneration. We believe that these results demonstrate
significant progress in the search for potentially important
regenerative agents for stroke and spinal cord injury. A summary
of these milestones is set forth below:

Our collaborating scientists have identified inosine, guanosine,
    mannose, cyclic adenosine monophosphate, and Oncomodulin, or
    MDP-14, as factors that have roles in axon regeneration. 

Our collaborating scientists demonstrated that inosine treatment
    produced functional recovery in an experimental rat model of
    stroke. The improvement in forelimb and hindlimb function in the
    treated animals was statistically significant over the control
    group rats. 

Inosine also stimulated axon growth in an animal model of spinal
    cord injury. Almost all of the treated animals showed signs of
    extensive axon regeneration from the uninjured to the injured
    side of the spinal cord, specifically the corticospinal tract. 

Initial examination of brain tissues from animals infused with
    INOSINE in toxicology studies indicates that INOSINE does not
    appear to cause random, non-regulated axon growth. We are
    planning to confirm these findings with more extensive safety
    evaluations in animal models. This is important because such
    growth could potentially cause unwanted and potentially
    dangerous changes in behavior, personality or other functions. 

Using Oncomodulin, our collaborating scientists have been able
    to stimulate regeneration of the optic nerve to a degree far
    greater than had previously been documented in scientific
    literature and showed that the regenerated fibers passed through
    an optic nerve crush injury and extend for several millimeters
    along the degenerated optic nerve tract towards the brain. 

INOSINE   

Based on persuasive data generated from  in vitro
 assays and animal model studies, we have selected inosine as
the lead candidate in our clinical program for functional
recovery in stroke. Inosine is a proprietary axon regeneration
factor that specifically promotes axon outgrowth in CNS neurons.
It is a purine nucleoside that is a naturally occurring compound
primarily derived from the hydrolysis of inosine monophosphate
or the deamination of adenosine. Inosine is released in small
quantities in the nervous system after injury. We refer to the
manufactured drug product candidate as INOSINE, to emphasize
that it a formulated drug product liquid for human
administration, and to the naturally occurring crystalline
nucleoside as inosine.

We licensed worldwide exclusive rights to develop inosine for
treatment of CNS injuries and disorders. The license agreement
provides for milestone payments and royalties based on product
sales that are consistent with industry averages for such
products.

Codman & Shurtleff, Inc.  

In September 2003, we entered into an agreement with
Codman & Shurtleff, Inc., or Codman, a
Johnson & Johnson subsidiary. The agreement calls for
Codman to provide us with implantable pumps and
intracerebroventricular, or ICV, catheters for our preclinical
and clinical studies of INOSINE. We believe that the sourcing of
pumps and catheters from a reliable, high quality supplier such
as Codman will enable us to complete our pre-clinical toxicology
studies, file our IND and proceed into clinical development in a
more streamlined manner by utilizing the same drug delivery
technology in each step. In exchange for their support of our
development program and regulatory submissions, Codman received
a right of first

12

Table of Contents   

refusal to exclusively license our intellectual property
regarding INOSINE including, but not limited to, a right to
co-develop INOSINE with Codman s medical devices in the
event that we offer similar rights to others. Codman s
rights are subject to specified terms and could extend from the
date of certain completed pilot studies through the completion
of Phase II clinical testing of INOSINE. However, we can
provide no assurances that we will ever offer such rights to
another party or that Codman will exercise their right of first
refusal.

Investigational New Drug Application  

In July 2004, we filed an IND application with the FDA for the
use of INOSINE to enhance motor functional recovery after
stroke. In September 2004, we announced that we received a
written response to our INOSINE IND filing from the FDA. In its
response, the FDA placed our Phase I study on clinical hold
pending the submission of additional pharmacology and toxicology
data. In August 2005, we completed and submitted the results of
certain studies requested by the FDA. In October 2005, the FDA
informed us that we remained on clinical hold pending receipt of
additional information from existing tissue samples and related
data from preclinical studies performed at contract
laboratories. We are attempting to obtain the related data and
assess if there are sufficient tissue samples of suitable
quality to satisfy the additional FDA requests. Assuming that we
are able to obtain these necessary samples and data, we plan to
complete our clinical hold response and submit it to the FDA.
There is no assurance that the requested tissues and data remain
available or that our response, when and if completed, will be
adequate, that we will be taken off clinical hold or that other
preclinical studies will not be required by the FDA prior to
initiating the Phase I trial. Additional preclinical
studies could result in additional costs and delays in our
INOSINE program.

Clinical Trial Program  

The proposed Phase I study has been designed to enroll 27
moderate to severe stroke patients. The study design calls for a
dose-escalation of INOSINE given to three groups of stroke
patients (9 patients in each dose group). All patients will
be maintained on their initial dose of INOSINE for the full
study period. INOSINE will be administered via an implantable
subcutaneous pump and ICV catheter system that potentially
allows the patient to leave the hospital at the same approximate
time that they otherwise would have after such a stroke. In
addition to safety monitoring, efficacy monitoring will also be
performed, but the small number of patients and the short
duration of treatment will probably preclude statistically valid
efficacy conclusions to be drawn.

In addition to our INOSINE IND, we are exploring the possibility
of undertaking clinical studies under a Physician s
Sponsored IND or the FDA s new exploratory IND program.

Market Opportunity  

We believe that INOSINE has the potential to change the current
clinical outcome for patients with stroke and other CNS
injuries. Our initial target application will be for stroke. We
believe that INOSINE also has potential for the treatment of
spinal cord injury and traumatic brain injury, two additional
indications that could potentially benefit from INOSINE
treatment.

The annual incidence of stroke in the United States is
approximately 700,000 with more than 5,000,000 stroke survivors
currently alive. The incidence of a moderate or severe traumatic
brain injury is approximately 250,000 cases annually. The
incidence of spinal cord injury is approximately 11,000 cases
annually. Treatment for these conditions is presently limited to
hemodynamic support, steroids to reduce inflammation, and, in
the case of stroke, the correction of predisposing hematological
abnormalities.

13

Table of Contents   

Parkinson s Disease Therapeutic Program    

Background  

We are developing small molecules for the treatment of PD. Each
product candidate in this group is a small tropane-based
molecule that binds with extremely high selectivity to the DAT,
thereby blocking the re-uptake of dopamine into a pre-synaptic
neuron. This blockade results in an increase in local dopamine
concentrations at the nerve junctions and thus compensates for
the decreased dopamine production characteristic of PD. We
believe that the strategy of DAT blockade represents a new
approach to the treatment of PD. We licensed rights to these new
therapeutic compounds developed by the same scientists who
developed the ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent. The license
agreement provides for milestone payments and royalties based on
product sales that are consistent with industry averages for
such products. We believe that this group of compounds
represents a novel and promising approach to the treatment of PD.

In addition to increasing synaptic dopamine concentrations, DAT
blockade may have unique disease-modifying or neuro-protective
effects. The DAT has been increasingly implicated as one of the
possible fundamental putative mediators of PD. DAT may transport
molecules (including potentially dopamine itself) responsible
for the destruction of the dopamine neurons. DAT blockade has
been shown, in a variety of animal models, to protect
dopamine-producing cells from experimental toxins. Based on the
accumulating data, DAT blockade may represent a credible and
viable approach to potentially preventing the progression of PD
in both advanced patients and those with recent onset of
symptoms.

Preclinical Development  

Our PD therapeutic program is in preclinical development. We
have identified several promising lead compounds which are the
subject of further analyses currently ongoing. Several of these
lead compounds have been shown in primate studies to alleviate
the symptoms of PD. In some cases, efficacy results with our DAT
blocker were comparable to that of a standard dopamine agonist.
Dopamine agonists are routinely used to treat the symptoms of PD
both as mono-therapy agents and in conjunction with the most
common treatment, Levodopa.

We expect to submit an IND for our PD therapeutic program during
the first half of 2008. There can be no assurance that resources
will be available to continue and complete the development
activities being conducted, that the program will result in data
that supports the continued development required to file an IND,
or that we will be able to submit an IND during the first half
of 2008.

Ocular Therapeutic Program    

Our ocular therapeutic program is designed to leverage our
intellectual property estate and derive value from alternative
uses of our compounds already in development. The overall
objective with the program is to develop a sufficiently broad
and comprehensive set of in-vitro and animal data to demonstrate
to potential development and commercialization partners the
potential utility of our compounds as therapeutics for important
eye diseases and regeneration of damaged optic nerve axons.

There are two recombinant proteins under development within the
ocular therapeutic program. Troponin I, or Troponin, is
being studied as a therapeutic to control abnormal new blood
vessel formation (angiogenesis) in the eye. Control of such
blood vessel growth is viewed as important in the treatment of
wet age related macular degeneration, or AMD, as well as
potentially diabetic retinopathy. The second protein is
Oncomodulin, or MDP-14, which is being tested to determine its
potential utility to enhance axon regeneration after acute
injury to the eye and possibly glaucoma.

Scientists at Children s Hospital in Boston have published
research in the  Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences  suggesting Troponin has anti-angiogenic activity,
both  in vitro  and  in vivo.  Anti-angiogenic
approaches may have potential for the treatment of eye diseases
that are associated with abnormal retinal angiogenesis. Two of
these diseases, AMD and diabetic retinopathy, are the major
causes of blindness in developed countries. We licensed
worldwide exclusive rights to develop Troponin as a

14

Table of Contents   

therapeutic to control angiogenesis. The license agreement
provides for milestone payments and royalties based on product
sales that are consistent with industry averages for such
products.

Oncomodulin is a recombinant protein that is reported by our
scientific collaborators to enhance axon regeneration in
cellular and animal assays. Oncomodulin is being evaluated as a
therapeutic for potential ocular indications, including
re-growth of axons after optic nerve injury or damage of retinal
ganglion cells from intraocular pressure caused by glaucoma.

Scientific Collaborators 

A summary of the key scientific, research and development
professionals with whom we work, and a composite of their
professional backgrounds and affiliations is as follows:

Larry I. Benowitz, Ph.D.,  Director, Laboratories for
Neuroscience Research in Neurosurgery, Children s Hospital,
Boston; Associate Professor of Neuroscience, Department of
Surgery, Harvard Medical School;

Joseph R. Bianchine, M.D., Ph.D., F.A.C.P.,
F.A.C.C.P.,  Scientific Advisory Board Member, Boston Life
Sciences, Inc., Senior Scientific Advisor, Schwarz Pharma AG;

Alan J. Fischman, M.D., Ph.D.,  Director,
Department of Nuclear Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital;
Professor of Radiology, Harvard Medical School;

Robert S. Langer, Sc.D.,  Director, Boston Life Sciences,
Inc.; Institute Professor of Chemical and Biomedical
Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology;

Marc E. Lanser, M.D. , Former Chief Medical Officer
and current Scientific Advisory Board Member, Boston Life
Sciences, Inc.; and

Peter Meltzer, Ph.D.,  President, Organix, Inc.,
Woburn, MA.

Research and Development 

We rely on licensing from third parties, principally Harvard and
its Affiliates, as our source for new technologies and product
candidates, and we maintain only limited internal research and
development personnel and facilities. Research and development
expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 were approximately $6.1 million, $6.4 million and
$4.4 million, respectively.

Licensing Agreements, Patents and Intellectual Property 

We have obtained exclusive licenses to patent portfolios related
to our product candidates in development. However, as to one or
more of the patents and patent applications of the patent
portfolios, which we have licensed from a university or academic
institution, the United States government holds a nonexclusive,
royalty-free, license in exchange for providing research funding.

Our intellectual property strategy is to vigorously pursue
patent protection for our technologies in the United States and
major developed countries. As of December 31, 2005, we
owned or licensed 23 issued U.S. patents and 16 pending
U.S. patent applications. International patent applications
corresponding to certain of these U.S. patent applications
have also been filed. Generally, each license agreement is
effective until the last patent licensed relating to the
technology expires or at a fixed and determined date. The
patents on the ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent expire
beginning in 2013. The patents on the FLUORATEC molecular
imaging agent expire beginning in 2020. The patents on inosine
expire in 2017. The applications for patents relating to DAT
blockers are currently pending.

The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex and
evolving legal and factual questions. We cannot guarantee that
any patents will issue from any pending or future patent
applications owned by, or licensed to us. Existing or future
patents may be challenged, infringed upon, invalidated, found to
be unenforceable or circumvented by others. We cannot guarantee
that any of our rights under any issued patents will provide
sufficient protection against

15

Table of Contents   

competitive products or otherwise cover commercially valuable
products or processes. We may not have identified all United
States and foreign patents that pose a risk of infringement. In
addition, even if we secure patent protection, our product
candidates may still infringe on the patents or rights of other
parties, and these patent holders may decide not to grant a
license to us. We may be required to change our product
candidates or processes, engage in legal challenges to the
validity of third party patents that block our ability to market
a product, pay licensing fees, or cease certain activities
because of the patent rights of third parties. Any of these
events could cause additional unexpected costs and delays.

In the event that a third party has a patent or patent
application overlapping an invention claimed in one of our
patent applications, we may be required to participate in a
patent interference proceeding declared by the United States
Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to determine priority of
invention. A patent interference could result in substantial
uncertainties and cost for us, even if the eventual outcome is
favorable to us. We cannot provide assurance that our patents
and patent applications, if issued, would be held valid by a
court of competent jurisdiction.

We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek
to protect this information through confidentiality agreements
with our collaborators and consultants. There can be no
guarantee that these procedures and agreements will not be
breached or that we will have adequate remedies for such breach.
In addition, if consultants, scientific advisors, or other third
parties apply technological information which they have
developed separate from us to our technologies, there may be
disputes as to the ownership of such information which may not
be resolved in our favor.

Competition 

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly
competitive, rapidly changing and are dominated by larger, more
experienced and better capitalized companies. Thus, we compete
with a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that
have financial, technical and marketing resources and experience
significantly greater than ours. Such greater experience and
financial strength may enable them to bring their products to
market sooner than us, thereby gaining a competitive advantage.
In addition, research related to the causes of, and possible
treatments for diseases for which we are trying to develop
products, including CNS disorders such as stroke, PD and ADHD
are developing rapidly, and there is a potential for extensive
technological innovation in relatively short periods of time.
Given that many of our competitors have greater financial
resources, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
effectively compete with any new technological developments. In
addition, many of our competitors and potential competitors have
significantly greater experience than we do in completing
preclinical and clinical testing of new pharmaceutical products
and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products.
These advantages could enable them to bring products to market
faster than us.

We expect that our products will compete with a variety of
products currently offered and under development by a number of
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that have greater
financial and marketing resources than ours. We believe that our
product candidates, if successfully developed, will compete with
these products principally on the basis of improved and extended
efficacy and safety, and the overall economic benefit to the
health care system offered by such products. However, there can
be no assurance that our product candidates, if developed, will
achieve better efficacy and safety profiles than current drugs
now offered or products under development by our competitors.
Competition among pharmaceutical products approved for sale also
may be based on, among other things, patent position,
availability and price. In addition, we expect that our
competitors will have greater marketing resources and experience
than we do, which may enable them to market their products more
successfully than we market ours.

A significant amount of research and development in the
biotechnology industry is conducted by academic institutions,
governmental agencies and other public and private research
organizations. We possess only limited internal research and
development facilities and personnel, and rely on collaborations
with these entities (principally, Harvard and its Affiliates) to
acquire new technologies and product candidates. These entities
often seek patent protection and enter into licensing
arrangements to collect

16

Table of Contents   

royalties for use of technology or for the sale of products they
have discovered or developed. We face competition in our
licensing or acquisition activities from pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies that also seek to collaborate with or
acquire technologies or product candidates from these entities.
Accordingly, we may have difficulty licensing or acquiring
technologies or product candidates on acceptable terms.

To our knowledge, there is presently no approved diagnostic in
the United States for PD and other movement disorders. To our
knowledge, there is only one company, GE Healthcare (formerly
Nycomed/Amersham), that has marketed a diagnostic imaging agent
for PD,
DATScan  tm  .
To date, GE Healthcare has obtained marketing approval only in
certain countries in Europe. To the best of our knowledge, GE
Healthcare is not presently seeking approval in the United
States. However, GE Healthcare has significantly greater
infrastructure and financial resources than us, and their
decision to seek approval in the United States could
significantly adversely affect our competitive position. Their
established market presence, and greater financial strength in
the European market may make it difficult for us to successfully
market ALTROPANE in Europe.

Regulatory Considerations 

Our technologies must undergo a rigorous regulatory approval
process, which includes extensive preclinical and clinical
testing, to demonstrate safety and efficacy before any resulting
product can be marketed. To date, neither the FDA nor any of its
international equivalents has approved any of our technologies
for marketing. In the biotechnology industry, it has been
estimated that less than five percent of the technologies for
which clinical efforts are initiated ultimately result in an
approved product. The clinical trial and regulatory approval
process can require many years and substantial cost, and there
can be no guarantee that our efforts will result in an approved
product.

Our activities are regulated by a number of government
authorities in the United States and other countries, including
the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
The FDA regulates drugs, including their research, development,
testing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage,
advertising and promotion, and distribution. Data obtained from
testing is subject to varying interpretations which can delay,
limit or prevent FDA approval. In addition, changes in existing
regulatory requirements could prevent or affect the timing of
our ability to achieve regulatory compliance. Federal and state
laws, regulations and policies may be changed with possible
retroactive effect, and how these rules actually operate can
depend heavily on administrative policies and interpretations
over which we have no control.

Obtaining FDA approvals is time-consuming and expensive. The
steps required before any of our product candidates may be
marketed in the United States include:

Preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation
    studies according to good laboratory practice regulations; 

Submission to the FDA of an IND application, which must become
    effective before United States human clinical trials may
    commence; 

Adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials according to
    good clinical practice regulations, or GCP, to establish the
    safety and efficacy of the product for its intended use; 

Submission to the FDA of an NDA; 

Satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the
    manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is
    produced to assess compliance with current Good Manufacturing
    Practices, or cGMP assure that the facilities, methods and
    controls are adequate to preserve the drug s identity,
    strength, quality and purity; and 

FDA review and approval of the application(s) prior to any
    commercial sale or shipment of the drug. 

17

Table of Contents   

Once a drug candidate is identified for development it enters
the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include
laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and
formulation, as well as animal studies. An IND sponsor must
submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with
manufacturing information and analytical data, to the FDA as
part of the IND. Some preclinical or non-clinical testing may
continue even after the IND is submitted. In addition to
including the results of the preclinical studies, the IND will
also include a protocol detailing, among other things, the
objectives of the first phase of the clinical trial, the
parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the
effectiveness criteria to be evaluated if the first phase lends
itself to an efficacy determination. The IND automatically
becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless
the FDA places the clinical trial on clinical hold. In such a
case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding
concerns before the clinical trial can begin.

All clinical trials must be conducted under the supervision of
one or more qualified investigators in accordance with GCP.
These regulations include the requirement that all research
subjects provide informed consent. Further, an Institutional
Review Board, or IRB, at each institution participating in the
clinical trial must review and approve the protocol before a
clinical trial commences at that institution. Each new clinical
protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND.
Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials
must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more
frequently if serious adverse events occur.

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three
sequential phases that may overlap or be combined:

Phase I:  The drug is initially introduced into
healthy human subjects or patients with the disease and tested
for safety, dosage tolerance, pharmacokinetics,
pharmacodynamics, absorption, metabolism, distribution and
excretion.

Phase II:  Involves studies in a limited patient
population to identify possible adverse effects and safety
risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for
specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and
optimal dosage.

Phase III:  Clinical trials are undertaken to further
evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded
patient population. These studies are intended to establish the
overall risk-benefit ratio of the product and provide, if
appropriate, an adequate basis for product labeling.

Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III testing may not
be completed successfully within any specified period, if at
all. The FDA or an IRB or the sponsor may suspend a clinical
trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that
the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an
unacceptable health risk. Success in early stage clinical trials
does not assure success in later stage clinical trials.

Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete
additional animal studies and also must develop additional
information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of
the drug and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in
accordance with cGMP requirements. The results of product
development, preclinical studies and clinical studies, along
with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests
conducted on the chemistry of the drug, and other relevant
information are submitted to the FDA as part of the NDA
requesting approval to market the product. The submission of an
NDA is subject to payment of user fees, but a waiver of such
fees may be obtained under specified circumstances. The FDA
reviews all NDAs submitted before it accepts them for filing. If
a submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in- depth
review, including inspecting the manufacturing facilities. The
FDA may refuse to approve an NDA if the applicable regulatory
criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical or
other data. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may
ultimately decide not to approve the NDA.

There is no guarantee that approvals will be granted for any of
our product candidates, or that the FDA review process will not
involve delays that significantly and negatively affect our
product candidates. We also may encounter similar delays in
foreign countries. In addition, even if we receive regulatory
approvals, they may have significant limitations on the uses for
which any approved products may be

18

Table of Contents   

marketed. After approval, some types of changes to the approved
product are subject to further FDA review and approval. Any
marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to periodic
review, and any discovery of previously unrecognized problems
with a product or manufacturer could result in suspension or
limitation of approvals. Failure to comply with the applicable
FDA requirements at any time during the product development
process, approval process, or after approval, may subject an
applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions, including the
FDA s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal
of approval, a clinical hold, warning letters, product recalls
and seizures, total or partial suspension of production or
distribution, or injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal
prosecution.

Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement 

In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of any products for
which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sales will
depend in part on the availability of reimbursement for third
party payors. Third party payors include government health care
program administrative authorities, managed care providers,
private health insurers and other organizations. These third
party payors are increasingly challenging the price and
examining the cost-effectiveness of medical products and
services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the
scope of coverage and payment amounts for newly approved heath
care products. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic
studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our
products. Our products may not be considered medically necessary
or cost-effective. Adequate third party reimbursement may not be
available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to
realize an appropriate return on our investment in product
development.

Manufacturing 

We currently outsource manufacturing for all of our product
candidates, with the exception of Troponin and Oncomodulin, and
expect to continue to outsource manufacturing in the future. We
believe our current suppliers will be able to manufacture our
products efficiently in sufficient quantities and on a timely
basis, while maintaining product quality. We seek to maintain
quality control over manufacturing through ongoing inspections,
rigorous review, control over documented operating procedures
and thorough analytical testing by outside laboratories. We
believe that our current strategy of primarily outsourcing
manufacturing is cost-effective since we avoid the high fixed
costs of plant, equipment and large manufacturing staffs.

FDA regulations require that we establish a manufacturing source
of ALTROPANE under the cGMP regulations established by the FDA.
MDS Nordion, Inc., or MDS Nordion, a Canadian corporation and
well-recognized manufacturer of
 123 I
and nuclear medicine labeled imaging agents, has supplied
ALTROPANE to us since 2001. We are highly dependent upon MDS
Nordion. Under the terms of our agreement, which currently
expires on December 31, 2006, MDS Nordion manufactures the
ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent for our clinical trials. The
agreement also provides that MDS Nordion will compile and
prepare the information regarding manufacturing that will be a
required component of any NDA we file for ALTROPANE in the
future. MDS Nordion assisted in the preparation of the
regulatory information for the Chemistry Manufacturing and
Controls section of our planned NDA for ALTROPANE. In February
2003, MDS Nordion submitted a Drug Master File describing the
manufacture of ALTROPANE to the FDA. We do not presently have
arrangements with any other suppliers in the event that MDS
Nordion is unable to manufacture ALTROPANE for us. We could
encounter a significant delay before another supplier could
manufacture ALTROPANE for us due to the time required to
establish cGMP manufacturing process for ALTROPANE. We hope to
sign an extension with MDS Nordion before December 31, 2006
but there can be no assurance that we will be able to or that
the terms will be acceptable.

We expect MDS Nordion will also supply the cGMP ALTROPANE for
our ADHD and other clinical trials. We do not, however, have a
manufacturing agreement relating to the commercial production of
ALTROPANE with MDS Nordion or any other manufacturer. We can
provide no assurances that such an agreement will be executed on
acceptable terms.

19

Table of Contents   

We lease 3,300 square feet of laboratory space located in
Baltimore, Maryland that expires in May 2006. We are currently
negotiating an extension to this lease. This space supports our
efforts to establish a consistent manufacturing process for
Troponin and Oncomodulin.

Marketing and Sales 

Our strategy is to pursue partnering opportunities in order to
accelerate and maximize commercialization of our clinical
product candidates and strategic collaborations for development
of our preclinical product candidates. These collaborators may
provide financial and other resources, including capabilities in
research, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales. There
can be no assurances that we will be successful in our
collaboration efforts.

We believe that engaging a global partner for our molecular
imaging program and in particular for the launch and
commercialization of ALTROPANE is likely to be the most
effective means to maximize the value of the ALTROPANE product.
We are currently developing our sales, marketing and
distribution strategy for ALTROPANE and conducting pricing and
reimbursement analyses to support our partnering efforts so that
we are adequately prepared to launch the product on our own
should we be unable to reach a partnership agreement on
acceptable terms. No assurances can be made that we will be able
to reach a partnership agreement on acceptable terms, if at all.
No assurances can be made that ALTROPANE will be approved or
that such launch will be successful.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2005, we employed 22 full-time
employees. None of our employees are covered by a collective
bargaining agreement. We consider our employee relations to be
good.

Other Information 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange
Act, and, accordingly, file reports, proxy statements and other
information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such
reports, proxy statements and other information can be read and
copied at the public reference facilities maintained by the
Securities and Exchange Commission at the Public Reference Room,
100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549.
Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room
may be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange
Commission at
 1-800-SEC-0330.  The
Securities and Exchange Commission maintains a web site
(http://www.sec.gov) that contains material regarding issuers
that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

Our Internet address is www.bostonlifesciences.com. We are not
including the information contained on our web site as a part
of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on
Form  10-K.  We make
available free of charge on our website our Annual Reports on
Form  10-K, 
Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q,  Current
Reports on
Form  8-K  and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

Additional financial information is contained in
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II, and in
Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

Item 1A.       
     
      Risk Factors.   

Statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on
Form  10-K  that are
not based on historical fact are  forward-looking
statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the
Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements regarding future
events and our future results are based on current expectations,
estimates, forecasts, and projections, and the beliefs and
assumptions of our

20

Table of Contents   

management including, without limitation, our expectations
regarding our product candidates, results of operations,
selling, general and administrative expenses, research and
development expenses and the sufficiency of our cash for future
operations. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the
use of forward-looking terminology such as  may, 
 could,   will,   expect, 
 estimate,   anticipate, 
 continue,  or similar terms, variations of such terms
or the negative of those terms.

We cannot assure investors that our assumptions and expectations
will prove to have been correct. Important factors could cause
our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or
implied by forward-looking statements. Such factors that could
cause or contribute to such differences include those factors
discussed below. We undertake no intention or obligation to
update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise. If any of
the following risks actually occur, our business, financial
condition or results of operations would likely suffer.

Risks Related to our Financial Results and Need for
Additional Financing 

WE ARE A DEVELOPMENT STAGE COMPANY. WE HAVE INCURRED
    LOSSES FROM OUR OPERATIONS SINCE INCEPTION AND ANTICIPATE LOSSES
    FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO ACHIEVE
    PROFITABILITY UNLESS WE OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL AND MARKET
    ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES.   

Biotechnology companies that have no approved products or other
sources of revenue are generally referred to as development
stage companies. As of December 31, 2005, we had incurred
cumulative net losses of approximately $117,000,000 since
inception. We have never generated revenues from product sales
and we do not currently expect to generate revenues from product
sales for at least the next three years. If we do generate
revenues and operating profits in the future, our ability to
continue to do so in the long term could be affected by the
introduction of competitors  products and other market
factors. We expect to incur significant operating losses for at
least the next three years. The level of our operating losses
may increase in the future if more of our product candidates
begin human clinical trials. We will never generate revenues or
achieve profitability unless we obtain regulatory approval and
market acceptance of our product candidates. This will require
us to be successful in a range of challenging activities,
including clinical trial stages of development, obtaining
regulatory approval for our product candidates, and
manufacturing, marketing and selling them. We may never succeed
in these activities, and may never generate revenues that are
significant enough to achieve profitability. Even if we do
achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase
profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.

WE WILL NEED SUBSTANTIAL ADDITIONAL FUNDING IN ORDER TO
    CONTINUE OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SECURE
    SUCH FUNDING ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS, WE MAY NEED TO SIGNIFICANTLY
    REDUCE, DELAY OR CEASE ONE OR MORE OF OUR RESEARCH OR
    DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, OR SURRENDER RIGHTS TO SOME OR ALL OF OUR
    TECHNOLOGIES.   

We require significant funds to conduct research and development
activities, including preclinical studies and clinical trials of
our technologies, and to commercialize our product candidates.
Because the successful development of our product candidates is
uncertain, we are unable to estimate the actual funds we will
require to develop and commercialize them. Our funding
requirements depend on many factors, including:

The scope, rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and
    other research and development activities; 

Future clinical trial results; 

The terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other
    arrangements that we may establish; 

The cost and timing of regulatory approvals and of establishing
    sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; 

21

Table of Contents   

The cost of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our
    product candidates and any products that we may develop; 

The cost of obtaining and maintaining licenses to use patented
    technologies; 

The effect of competing technological and market
    developments; and 

The cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any
    patent claims and other intellectual property rights and other
    patent-related costs, including litigation costs and the results
    of such litigation. 

Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial revenue
from product sales or through collaborative arrangements with
third parties, we may need to raise additional capital. To date,
we have experienced negative cash flows from operations and have
funded our operations primarily from equity and debt financings.

For the foreseeable future, we expect to experience continuing
operating losses and negative cash flows from operations as our
management executes our current business plan. The cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable securities available at
December 31, 2005 will not provide sufficient working
capital to meet our anticipated expenditures for the next twelve
months. We believe that the cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities available at December 31, 2005 and
our ability to control certain costs, including those related to
clinical trial programs, preclinical activities, and certain
general and administrative expenses will enable us to meet our
anticipated cash expenditures through June 2006. We will
therefore need to raise additional capital through one or more
of the following: collaboration, merger, acquisition or other
transaction with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology
companies, or through a debt financing or equity offering to
continue as a going concern. We are currently engaged in
collaboration, merger, acquisition and other related fundraising
efforts. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be
successful in our collaboration, merger, acquisition or other
fundraising efforts or that additional funds will be available
on acceptable terms, if at all. In connection with our common
stock financing completed by us in March 2005, we agreed with
the March 2005 Investors that, subject to certain exceptions, we
would not issue any shares of our common stock at a per share
price less than $2.50 without the prior consent of the
purchasers holding a majority of the shares issued in such
financing. On March 23, 2006, the closing price of our
common stock was $2.87. The failure to receive the requisite
waiver or consent of the March 2005 Investors could have the
effect of delaying or preventing the consummation of a financing
by us. Alternatively, to secure such funds, we may be required
to enter financing arrangements with others that may require us
to surrender rights to some or all of our technologies or grant
licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If the results
of our current or future clinical trials are not favorable, it
may negatively affect our ability to raise additional funds. If
we are successful in obtaining additional equity and or debt
financing, the terms of such financing will have the effect of
diluting the holdings and the rights of our shareholders.
Estimates about how much funding will be required are based on a
number of assumptions, all of which are subject to change based
on the results and progress of our research and development
activities. If we are unable to raise additional capital we may
need to reduce, cease or delay one or more of our research or
development programs and adjust our current business plan.

Our ability to continue development of our programs, including
our Phase III program of ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent
as a diagnostic for PS, our Phase II program of as
ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent as a diagnostic for ADHD, and
our preclinical programs including those in axon regeneration,
PD therapeutics and ocular therapeutics may be affected by the
availability of financial resources to fund each program.
Financial considerations may cause us to modify planned
development activities for one or more of our programs, and we
may decide to suspend development of one or more programs until
we are able to secure additional working capital. If we are not
able to raise additional capital, we may not have sufficient
funds to complete our Phase III clinical trials of
ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent as a diagnostic for PS or the
Phase II program of ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent as a
diagnostic for ADHD.

22

Table of Contents   

OUR ESTIMATES OF OUR LIABILITY UNDER OUR BOSTON,
    MASSACHUSETTS LEASE MAY BE INACCURATE.   

Our lease in Boston, Massachusetts expires in 2012. We have
entered into two sublease agreements covering all
6,600 square feet under this lease through the date of
expiration. In determining our obligations under the lease that
we do not expect to occupy, we have made certain assumptions for
the discounted estimated cash flows related to the rental
payments that our subtenants have agreed to pay. We may be
required to change our estimates in the future as a result of,
among other things, the default of one or both of our subtenants
with respect to their payment obligations. Any such adjustments
to the estimate of liability could be material.

Risks Related to Commercialization 

OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP
    OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES INTO COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS.   

To date, we have not marketed, distributed or sold any products
and, with the exception of the ALTROPANE molecular imaging
agent, all of our technologies and early-stage product
candidates are in preclinical development. The success of our
business depends primarily upon our ability to successfully
develop and commercialize our product candidates. Successful
research and product development in the biotechnology industry
is highly uncertain, and very few research and development
projects produce a commercial product. In the biotechnology
industry, it has been estimated that less than five percent of
the technologies for which research and development efforts are
initiated ultimately result in an approved product. If we are
unable to successfully commercialize the ALTROPANE molecular
imaging agent or any of our other product candidates, our
business would be materially harmed.

EVEN IF WE RECEIVE APPROVAL TO MARKET OUR DRUG CANDIDATES,
    THE MARKET MAY NOT BE RECEPTIVE TO OUR DRUG CANDIDATES UPON
    THEIR COMMERCIAL INTRODUCTION, WHICH COULD PREVENT US FROM
    SUCCESSFULLY COMMERCIALIZING OUR PRODUCTS AND FROM BEING
    PROFITABLE.   

Even if our drug candidates are successfully developed, our
success and growth will also depend upon the acceptance of these
drug candidates by physicians and third-party payors. Acceptance
of our product development candidates will be a function of our
products being clinically useful, being cost effective and
demonstrating superior diagnostic or therapeutic effect with an
acceptable side effect profile as compared to existing or future
treatments. In addition, even if our products achieve market
acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market
acceptance over time.

Factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance
of our drug candidates under development include:

The timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms
    of any approval and the countries in which approvals are
    obtained; 

The safety, efficacy and ease of administration of our products; 

The competitive pricing of our products; 

The success of our education and marketing programs; 

The sales and marketing efforts of competitors; and 

The availability and amount of government and third-party payor
    reimbursement. 

If our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be
able to generate sufficient revenues from product sales to
maintain or grow our business.

23

Table of Contents   

ACQUISITIONS PRESENT MANY RISKS, AND WE MAY NOT REALIZE
    THE ANTICIPATED FINANCIAL AND STRATEGIC GOALS FOR ANY SUCH
    TRANSACTIONS.   

We may in the future acquire complementary companies, products
and technologies. Such acquisitions involve a number of risks,
including:

We may find that the acquired company or assets do not further
    our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or
    assets, or that economic conditions change, all of which may
    generate a future impairment charge; 

We may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel
    of the acquired business, and may have difficulty retaining the
    key personnel of the acquired business; 

We may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies; 

We may encounter technical difficulties or failures with the
    performance of the acquired technologies or drug products; 

We may face product liability risks associated with the sale of
    the acquired company s products; 

Our ongoing business and management s attention may be
    disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and
    the complexity of managing diverse locations; 

We may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, internal
    controls, procedures and policies across locations; 

The acquisition may result in litigation from terminated
    employees or third-parties; and 

We may experience significant problems or liabilities associated
    with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. 

These factors could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition or cash
flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or
multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to
time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are
not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in
significant diversion of management time, as well as
 out-of -pocket costs.

The consideration paid in connection with an acquisition also
affects our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or
more significant acquisitions in which the consideration
included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion
of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. To the
extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase
stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders
may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition,
acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large
one-time write-offs (such as acquired in-process research and
development costs) and restructuring charges. They may also
result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject
to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment
charges.

Risk Related to Regulation 

IF OUR PRECLINICAL TESTING AND CLINICAL TRIALS ARE NOT
    SUCCESSFUL, WE WILL NOT OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL FOR
    COMMERCIAL SALE OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES.   

We will be required to demonstrate, through preclinical testing
and clinical trials, that our product candidates are safe and
effective before we can obtain regulatory approval for the
commercial sale of our product candidates. Preclinical testing
and clinical trials are lengthy and expensive and the historical
rate of failure for product candidates is high. Product
candidates that appear promising in the early phases of
development, such as in preclinical study or in early human
clinical trials, may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy in
clinical trials.

24

Table of Contents   

Except for the ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent, we have not
yet received IND approval from the FDA for our other product
candidates which will be required before we can begin clinical
trials in the United States. We may not submit INDs for our
product candidates if we are unable to accumulate the necessary
preclinical data for the filing of an IND. The FDA may request
additional preclinical data before allowing us to commence
clinical trials. As an example, the FDA has requested additional
information before it will consider approving our IND filing for
one of our product candidates, INOSINE. The FDA or other
applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of
a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the subjects
or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to
unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Adverse side
effects of a drug candidate on subjects or patients in a
clinical trial could result in the FDA or foreign regulatory
authorities refusing to approve a particular drug candidate for
any or all indications of use.

After a series of discussions with the FDA, in March 2006, we
notified the FDA that we elected to terminate our SPA and end
POET-1 enrollment so we could analyze the complete set of
clinical data for efficacy. No safety issues were found in this
trial. Based on the previous performance of ALTROPANE and our
permitted monitoring of non-blinded data from the approximately
200 patients enrolled in the POET-1 trial to date,
statistical modeling indicated that POET-1 may have already
enrolled enough subjects in the trial to evaluate the efficacy
of ALTROPANE. We based our original plan for enrolling 332
subjects in POET-1 in part on published reports in scientific
journals that indicated a 20 to 30 percent misdiagnosis
rate in the early stages of PD. Our review of the data from
subjects enrolled in the POET-1 trial indicates that the error
rate of general practitioners who participated in POET-1 is much
higher. As such, the statistical modeling indicates that if the
performance of ALTROPANE in POET-1 is consistent with its
historical performance in earlier trials, statistical
significance may be achieved after enrolling slightly over half
the originally planned number of subjects. We will need to
complete further clinical studies and obtain successful results
prior to the filing of an NDA for ALTROPANE. Even if
successfully completed, there is no assurance that these
Phase III clinical trials will be sufficient to achieve the
approvability of ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent.

Clinical trials require sufficient patient enrollment which is a
function of many factors, including the size of the potential
patient population, the nature of the protocol, the availability
of existing treatments for the indicated disease and the
eligibility criteria for enrolling in the clinical trial. Delays
or difficulties in completing patient enrollment can result in
increased costs and longer development times.

We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of
our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will
cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend those
trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or
ongoing clinical trials. Any of the following could delay the
initiation or the completion of our ongoing and planned clinical
trials:

Ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign
    authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; 

Delays in enrolling patients and volunteers into clinical trials; 

Lower than anticipated retention rate of patients and volunteers
    in clinical trials; 

Negative or inconclusive results of clinical trials or adverse
    medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical
    trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated, even if
    other studies or trials related to the program are successful; 

Insufficient supply or deficient quality of drug candidate
    materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our
    clinical trials; 

Serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by
    participants in our clinical trials; or 

The placement of a clinical trial on hold. 

25

Table of Contents   

OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES ARE SUBJECT TO RIGOROUS REGULATORY
    REVIEW AND, EVEN IF APPROVED, REMAIN SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE
    REGULATION.   

Our technologies and product candidates must undergo a rigorous
regulatory approval process which includes extensive preclinical
and clinical testing to demonstrate safety and efficacy before
any resulting product can be marketed. Our research and
development activities are regulated by a number of government
authorities in the United States and other countries, including
the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
The clinical trial and regulatory approval process usually
requires many years and substantial cost. To date, neither the
FDA nor any of its international equivalents has approved any of
our product candidates for marketing.

The FDA regulates drugs in the United States, including their
testing, manufacturing and marketing. Data obtained from testing
is subject to varying interpretations which can delay, limit or
prevent FDA approval. The FDA has stringent laboratory and
manufacturing standards which must be complied with before we
can test our product candidates in people or make them
commercially available. Examples of these standards include Good
Laboratory Practices and cGMP. Our compliance with these
standards is subject to initial certification by independent
inspectors and continuing audits thereafter. Obtaining FDA
approval to sell our product candidates is time-consuming and
expensive. The FDA usually takes at least 12 to 18 months
to review an NDA which must be submitted before the FDA will
consider granting approval to sell a product. If the FDA
requests additional information, it may take even longer for the
FDA to make a decision especially if the additional information
that they request requires us to complete additional studies. We
may encounter similar delays in foreign countries. After
reviewing any NDA we submit, the FDA or its foreign equivalents
may decide not to approve our products. Failure to obtain
regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us from
commercializing our product candidates.

Other risks associated with the regulatory approval process
include:

Regulatory approvals may impose significant limitations on the
    uses for which any approved products may be marketed; 

Any marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to
    periodic reviews and audits, and any discovery of previously
    unrecognized problems with a product or manufacturer could
    result in suspension or limitation of approvals; 

Changes in existing regulatory requirements, or the enactment of
    additional regulations or statutes, could prevent or affect the
    timing of our ability to achieve regulatory compliance. Federal
    and state laws, regulations and policies may be changed with
    possible retroactive effect, and how these rules actually
    operate can depend heavily on administrative policies and
    interpretation over which we have no control, and we may possess
    inadequate experience to assess their full impact upon our
    business; and 

The approval may impose significant restrictions on the
    indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising,
    promotion, marketing and/or production of such product, and may
    impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including
    additional research and development and clinical trials. 

OUR PRODUCTS COULD BE SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS OR
    WITHDRAWAL FROM THE MARKET AND WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO PENALTIES IF
    WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS, OR IF WE
    EXPERIENCE UNANTICIPATED PROBLEMS WITH OUR PRODUCTS, WHEN AND IF
    ANY OF THEM ARE APPROVED.   

Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with
the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data,
labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such
product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review
by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. These requirements
include submissions of safety and other post-marketing
information and reports, registration requirements, quality
assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and
documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to
physicians and recordkeeping. The manufacturer and the
manufacturing facilities

26

Table of Contents   

we use to make any of our product candidates will also be
subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The
subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a
product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on
the product or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of
the product from the market. Even if regulatory approval of a
product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations
on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or
to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for
costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the
safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously
unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or
manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory
requirements, may result in:

Restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing
    processes; 

Warning letters; 

Withdrawal of the products from the market; 

Refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to
    approved applications that we submit; 

Recall; 

Fines; 

Suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; 

Refusal to permit the import or export of our products; 

Product seizure; and 

Injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. 

FAILURE TO OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL IN FOREIGN
    JURISDICTIONS WOULD PREVENT US FROM MARKETING OUR PRODUCTS
    ABROAD.   

Although we have not initiated any marketing efforts in foreign
jurisdictions, we intend in the future to market our products
outside the United States. In order to market our products in
the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must
obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous
and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure
varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The
time required to obtain approval abroad may differ from that
required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval
process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining
FDA approval and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals
on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not
ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries,
and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure
approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or
approval by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory
approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to
commercialize our products in any market outside the United
States. The failure to obtain these approvals could materially
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS TEND TO IMPOSE STRICT PRICE CONTROLS
    WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES, IF ANY.   

The pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to
governmental control in some foreign countries. In these
countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities
can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing
approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing
approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a
clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our
product candidate to other available therapies. If reimbursement
of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or
if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could
be adversely affected.

27

Table of Contents   

Risks Related to our Intellectual Property 

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SECURE ADEQUATE PATENT PROTECTION FOR
    OUR TECHNOLOGIES, THEN WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY
    AS A BIOTECHNOLOGY COMPANY.   

At the present time, we do not have patent protection for all
uses of our technologies. There is significant competition in
the field of CNS diseases, our primary scientific area of
research and development. Our competitors may seek patent
protection for their technologies, and such patent applications
or rights might conflict with the patent protection that we are
seeking for our technologies. If we do not obtain patent
protection for our technologies, or if others obtain patent
rights that block our ability to develop and market our
technologies, our business prospects may be significantly and
negatively affected. Further, even if patents can be obtained,
these patents may not provide us with any competitive advantage
if our competitors have stronger patent positions or if their
product candidates work better in clinical trials than our
product candidates. Our patents may also be challenged,
narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our
ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or
limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for
our products.

Our patent strategy is to obtain broad patent protection, in the
United States and in major developed countries, for our
technologies and their related medical indications. Risks
associated with protecting our patent and proprietary rights
include the following:

Our ability to protect our technologies could be delayed or
    negatively affected if the USPTO requires additional
    experimental evidence that our technologies work; 

Our competitors may develop similar technologies or products, or
    duplicate any technology developed by us; 

Our competitors may develop products which are similar to ours
    but which do not infringe our patents or products; 

Our competitors may successfully challenge one or more of our
    patents in an interference or litigation proceeding; 

Our patents may infringe the patents or rights of other parties
    who may decide not to grant a license to us. We may have to
    change our products or processes, pay licensing fees or stop
    certain activities because of the patent rights of third parties
    which could cause additional unexpected costs and delays; 

Patent law in the fields of healthcare and biotechnology is
    still evolving and future changes in such laws might conflict
    with our existing and future patent rights, or the rights of
    others; 

Our collaborators, employees and consultants may breach the
    confidentiality agreements that we enter into to protect our
    trade secrets and propriety know-how. We may not have adequate
    remedies for such breach; and 

There may be disputes as to the ownership of technological
    information developed by consultants, scientific advisors or
    other third parties which may not be resolved in our favor. 

WE IN-LICENSE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR INTELLECTUAL
    PROPERTY AND IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH OUR OBLIGATIONS UNDER ANY
    OF THE RELATED AGREEMENTS, WE COULD LOSE LICENSE RIGHTS THAT ARE
    NECESSARY TO DEVELOP OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES.   

We are a party to and rely on a number of in-license agreements
with third parties, such as those with Harvard and its
Affiliates, that give us rights to intellectual property that is
necessary for our business. In addition, we expect to enter into
additional licenses in the future. Our current in-license
arrangements impose various development, royalty and other
obligations on us. If we breach these obligations and fail to
cure such breach in a timely manner, these exclusive licenses
could be converted to

28

Table of Contents   

non-exclusive licenses or the agreements could be terminated,
which would result in our being unable to develop, manufacture
and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology.

IF WE BECOME INVOLVED IN PATENT LITIGATION OR OTHER
    PROCEEDINGS RELATED TO A DETERMINATION OF RIGHTS, WE COULD INCUR
    SUBSTANTIAL COSTS AND EXPENSES, SUBSTANTIAL LIABILITY FOR
    DAMAGES OR BE REQUIRED TO STOP OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND
    COMMERCIALIZATION EFFORTS.   

A third party may sue us for infringing its patent rights.
Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a
patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and
validity of third-party proprietary rights. In addition, a third
party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its
confidential or proprietary information. There has been
substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent
and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and
biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims
against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and
other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared
against us by the USPTO, regarding intellectual property rights
with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of
any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual
property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be
substantial, and the litigation would divert our
management s efforts. Some of our competitors may be able
to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more
effectively than we can because they have substantially greater
resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and
continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to
continue our operations.

If any parties successfully claim that our creation or use of
proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual
property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially
including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully
infringed on such parties  patent rights. In addition to
any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to
stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license
required under any patent may not be made available on
commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such
licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our
competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to
us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to
design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market
some of our technology and products, which could limit our
ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and
possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to
sustain our operations. We might be required to redesign the
formulation of a product candidate so that it does not infringe,
which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and
time. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a
product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business
operations if we are unable to enter into license agreements
that are acceptable to us. Moreover, we expect that a number of
our collaborations will provide that royalties payable to us for
licenses to our intellectual property may be offset by amounts
paid by our collaborators to third parties who have competing or
superior intellectual property positions in the relevant fields,
which could result in significant reductions in our revenues
from products developed through collaborations.

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS WITH EMPLOYEES AND OTHERS MAY
    NOT ADEQUATELY PREVENT DISCLOSURE OF TRADE SECRETS AND OTHER
    PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.   

In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we
rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our
collaborators, employees, consultants, outside scientific
collaborators and sponsored researchers, and other advisors.
These agreements may be breached, may not effectively prevent
disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an
adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of
confidential information. In addition, others may independently
discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such
cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such
party. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary
to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights,
and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could
adversely affect our competitive business position.

29

Table of Contents   

Risks Related to our Dependence on Third Parties 

IF ANY COLLABORATOR TERMINATES OR FAILS TO PERFORM ITS OR
    THEIR OBLIGATIONS UNDER AGREEMENTS WITH US, THE DEVELOPMENT AND
    COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES COULD BE DELAYED OR
    TERMINATED.   

We are dependent on expert advisors and our collaborations with
research and development service providers. Our business could
be adversely affected if any collaborator terminates its
collaboration agreement with us or fails to perform its
obligations under that agreement. Most biotechnology and
pharmaceutical companies have established internal research and
development programs, including their own facilities and
employees which are under their direct control. By contrast, we
have limited internal research capability and have elected to
outsource substantially all of our research and development,
preclinical and clinical activities. As a result, we are
dependent upon our network of expert advisors and our
collaborations with other research and development service
providers for the development of our technologies and product
candidates. These expert advisors are not our employees but
provide us with important information and knowledge that may
enhance our product development strategies and plans. Our
collaborations with research and development service providers
are important for the testing and evaluation of our
technologies, in both the preclinical and clinical stages.

Many of our expert advisors are employed by, or have their own
collaborative relationship with Harvard and its Affiliates. A
summary of the key scientific, research and development
professionals with whom we work, and a composite of their
professional background and affiliations is as follows:

Larry I. Benowitz, Ph.D., Director, Laboratories for
    Neuroscience Research in Neurosurgery, Children s Hospital,
    Boston; Associate Professor of Neuroscience, Department of
    Surgery, Harvard Medical School. 

Joseph R. Bianchine, M.D., Ph.D., F.A.C.P.,
    F.A.C.C.P., Scientific Advisory Board Member, Boston Life
    Sciences, Inc.; Senior Scientific Advisor, Schwarz Pharma AG. 

Alan J. Fischman, M.D., Ph.D., Director, Department of
    Nuclear Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital; Professor of
    Radiology, Harvard Medical School. 

Robert S. Langer, Jr. Sc.D., Director, Boston Life
    Sciences, Inc., Institute Professor of Chemical and Biomedical
    Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

Marc E. Lanser, M.D., Former Chief Medical Officer and
    current Scientific Advisory Board Member, Boston Life Sciences,
    Inc. 

Peter Meltzer, Ph.D., President, Organix, Inc., Woburn, MA. 

Dr. Benowitz, Dr. Bianchine, and Dr. Lanser
provide scientific consultative services resulting in total
payments of approximately $67,000 per year.
Dr. Benowitz provides scientific consultative services
primarily related to our axon regeneration program.
Dr. Bianchine and Dr. Lanser provide scientific
consultative services as members of our Scientific Advisory
Board.

We do not have a formal agreement with Dr. Meltzer
individually but do enter into research and development
contracts from time to time with Organix, Inc., of which
Dr. Meltzer is president.

Our significant collaborations include:

Beacon Bioscience in Doylestown, Pennsylvania which performs
    services for us including ALTROPANE SPECT evaluations and image
    management; 

Chemic Laboratories in Canton, Massachusetts which provides
    ALTROPANE chemical intermediate material, INOSINE drug
    substance, and performs certain analytic services for our
    preclinical programs; 

Children s Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts where certain
    of our collaborating scientists perform their research efforts; 

30

Table of Contents   

Harvard Medical School in Boston, Massachusetts where certain of
    our collaborating scientists perform their research efforts; 

INC Research in Raleigh, North Carolina which performs services
    for us including clinical and medical monitoring, statistical
    analysis and data management services; 

Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts where
    certain of our collaborating scientists perform their research
    efforts; 

MDS Nordion in Vancouver, British Colombia which manufactures
    the SPECT ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent; 

Medifacts International in Rockville, Maryland which is our ECG
    core laboratory and provides cardiac safety services; and 

Organix in Woburn, Massachusetts which provides non-radioactive
    ALTROPANE for FDA mandated studies and synthesizes our compounds
    for the treatment of PD and for axon regeneration. 

We generally have a number of collaborations with research and
development service providers ongoing at any point in time.
These agreements generally cover a specific project or study,
are usually for a duration between one month to one year, and
expire upon completion of the project. Under these agreements,
we are usually required to make an initial payment upon
execution of the agreement with the remaining payments based
upon the completion of certain specified milestones such as
completion of a study or delivery of a report.

We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our
advisors and collaborators devote to our programs or
technologies. Our advisors and collaborators may have employment
commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other
entities that may limit their availability to us. If any of our
advisors or collaborators were to breach or terminate their
agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct their activities
successfully and in a timely manner, the preclinical or clinical
development or commercialization of our technologies and product
candidates or our research programs could be delayed or
terminated. Any such delay or termination could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results
of operations.

Disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership
of rights to any technology developed with our advisors or
collaborators. These and other possible disagreements could lead
to delays in the collaborative research, development or
commercialization of our technologies, or could require or
result in litigation to resolve. Any such event could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations.

Our advisors and collaborators sign agreements that provide for
confidentiality of our proprietary information. Nonetheless,
they may not maintain the confidentiality of our technology and
other confidential information in connection with every advisory
or collaboration arrangement, and any unauthorized dissemination
of our confidential information could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN OUR KEY WORKING RELATIONSHIPS
    WITH HARVARD AND ITS AFFILIATES, WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL SINCE
    SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR CURRENT TECHNOLOGIES WERE LICENSED
    FROM, AND MOST OF OUR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES WERE
    PERFORMED BY, HARVARD AND ITS AFFILIATES.   

Historically, we have been heavily dependent on our relationship
with Harvard and its Affiliates because substantially all of our
technologies were licensed from, and most of our research and
development activities were performed by, Harvard and its
Affiliates. Now that a portion of our early-stage research at
Harvard and its Affiliates has yielded an identified product in
each area of research, we have begun and expect to continue to
conduct much of our later stage development work and all of our
formal preclinical and clinical programs outside of Harvard and
its Affiliates. Nevertheless, the originating scientists still
play

31

Table of Contents   

important advisory roles. Each of our collaborative research
agreements is managed by a sponsoring scientist and/or
researcher who has his or her own independent affiliation with
Harvard and its Affiliates.

Under the terms of our license agreements with Harvard and its
Affiliates, we acquired the exclusive, worldwide license to
make, use, and sell the technology covered by each respective
license agreement. Among other things, the technologies licensed
under these agreements include:

ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent compositions and methods of
    use; 

FLUORATEC molecular imaging agent compositions and methods of
    use; 

Inosine methods of use; and 

O-1369 compositions and methods of use. 

Generally, each license agreement is effective until the last
patent licensed relating to the technology expires or at a fixed
and determined date. The patents on the ALTROPANE molecular
imaging agent expire beginning in 2013. The patents on the
FLUORATEC molecular imaging agent expire beginning in 2020. The
patents on inosine expire in 2017. The applications for patents
relating to O-1369 are currently pending.

We are required to make certain licensing and related payments
to Harvard and its Affiliates which generally include:

An initial licensing fee payment upon the execution of the
    agreement and annual license maintenance fee; 

Reimbursement payments for all patent related costs incurred by
    Harvard and its Affiliates, including fees associated with the
    filing of
     continuation-in -part
    patent applications; 

Milestone payments as licensed technology progresses through
    each stage of development (filing of IND, completion of one or
    more clinical stages and submission and approval of an
    NDA); and 

Royalty payments on the sales of any products based on the
    licensed technology. 

Since inception, we have paid Harvard and its Affiliates under
the terms of our current License Agreements approximately
$800,000 in initial licensing fees and milestone payments. The
License Agreements obligate us to pay up to an aggregate of
$4,220,000 in milestone payments in the future. These future
milestone payments are generally payable only upon the
completion of later stage clinical trials and the filing of an
NDA or similar application seeking product approval. Most of
these contingent milestone payments are associated with
technologies that are presently in early stage development. We
are also required to pay certain fees for annual license
maintenance and
 continuation-in -part
patent applications.

We have entered into a small number of sponsored research
agreements with Harvard and its Affiliates. Under these
agreements, we provide funding so that the sponsoring scientists
can continue their research efforts. These payments are
generally made in equal quarterly installments over the term of
the agreements which are usually for one year.

Universities and other not-for-profit research institutions are
becoming increasingly aware of the commercial value of their
findings and are becoming more active in seeking patent
protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties for
the use of technology that they have developed. While this
increased awareness will not impact our rights to previously
licensed technologies, it may make it more costly and difficult
for us to obtain the licensing rights to new scientific
discoveries at Harvard and its Affiliates.

32

Table of Contents   

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ESTABLISH, MAINTAIN AND RELY ON NEW
    COLLABORATIVE RELATIONSHIPS, THEN WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
    SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE OUR TECHNOLOGIES.   

To date, our operations have primarily focused on the
preclinical development of most of our technologies, as well as
conducting clinical trials for certain of our technologies. We
currently expect that the continued development of our
technologies will result in the initiation of additional
clinical trials. We expect that these developments will require
us to establish, maintain and rely on new collaborative
relationships in order to successfully develop and commercialize
our technologies. We face significant competition in seeking
appropriate collaborators. Collaboration arrangements are
complex to negotiate and time consuming to document. We may not
be successful in our efforts to establish additional
collaborations or other alternative arrangements, and the terms
of any such collaboration or alternative arrangement may not be
favorable to us. There is no certainty that:

We will be able to enter into such collaborations on
    economically feasible and otherwise acceptable terms and
    conditions; 

That such collaborations will not require us to undertake
    substantial additional obligations or require us to devote
    additional resources beyond those we have identified at present; 

That any of our collaborators will not breach or terminate their
    agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their activities
    on time, thereby delaying the development or commercialization
    of the technology for which the parties are
    collaborating; and 

The parties will not dispute the ownership rights to any
    technologies developed under such collaborations. 

IF ONE OF OUR COLLABORATORS WERE TO CHANGE ITS STRATEGY OR
    THE FOCUS OF ITS DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION EFFORTS WITH
    RESPECT TO OUR RELATIONSHIP, THE SUCCESS OF OUR PRODUCT
    CANDIDATES AND OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY
    AFFECTED.   

There are a number of factors external to us that may change our
collaborators  strategy or focus with respect to our
relationship with them, including:

The amount and timing of resources that our collaborators may
    devote to the product candidates; 

Our collaborators may experience financial difficulties; 

We may be required to relinquish important rights such as
    marketing and distribution rights; 

Should a collaborator fail to develop or commercialize one of
    our product candidates, we may not receive any future milestone
    payments and will not receive any royalties for the product
    candidate; 

Business combinations or significant changes in a
    collaborator s business strategy may also adversely affect
    a collaborator s willingness or ability to complete its
    obligations under any arrangement; 

A collaborator may not devote sufficient time and resources to
    any collaboration with us, which could prevent us from realizing
    the potential commercial benefits of that collaboration; 

A collaborator may terminate their collaborations with us, which
    could make it difficult for us to attract new collaborators or
    adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and
    financial communities; and 

A collaborator could move forward with a competing product
    candidate developed either independently or in collaboration
    with others, including our competitors. 

If any of these occur, the development and commercialization of
one or more drug candidates could be delayed, curtailed or
terminated because we may not have sufficient financial
resources or capabilities to continue such development and
commercialization on our own.

33

Table of Contents   

Risks Related to Competition 

WE ARE ENGAGED IN HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRIES DOMINATED
    BY LARGER, MORE EXPERIENCED AND BETTER CAPITALIZED
    COMPANIES.   

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly
competitive, rapidly changing, and are dominated by larger, more
experienced and better capitalized companies. Such greater
experience and financial strength may enable them to bring their
products to market sooner than us, thereby gaining the
competitive advantage of being the first to market. Research on
the causes of, and possible treatments for, diseases for which
we are trying to develop therapeutic or diagnostic products are
developing rapidly and there is a potential for extensive
technological innovation in relatively short periods of time.
Factors affecting our ability to successfully manage the
technological changes occurring in the biotechnology and
pharmaceutical industries, as well as our ability to
successfully compete, include:

Many of our potential competitors in the field of CNS research
    have significantly greater experience than we do in completing
    preclinical and clinical testing of new pharmaceutical products,
    the manufacturing and commercialization process, and obtaining
    FDA and other regulatory approvals of products; 

Many of our potential competitors have products that have been
    approved or are in late stages of development; 

Many of our potential competitors may develop products or other
    novel technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly
    than any that we are developing; 

Many of our potential competitors have collaborative
    arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and
    research institutions; 

The timing and scope of regulatory approvals for these products; 

The availability and amount of third-party reimbursement; 

The strength of our patent position; 

Many of our potential competitors are in a stronger financial
    position than us, and are thus better able to finance the
    significant cost of developing, manufacturing and selling new
    products; and 

Companies with established positions and prior experience in the
    pharmaceutical industry may be better able to develop and market
    products for the treatment of those diseases for which we are
    trying to develop products. 

To our knowledge, there is only one company, GE Healthcare
(formerly Nycomed/ Amersham), that has marketed a diagnostic
imaging agent for PD. To date, GE Healthcare has obtained
marketing approval only in Europe, and to the best of our
knowledge, is not presently seeking approval in the United
States. However, GE Healthcare has significantly greater
infrastructure and financial resources than us, and their
decision to seek approval in the United States could
significantly adversely affect our competitive position. Their
established market presence, and greater financial strength in
the European market will make it difficult for us to
successfully market ALTROPANE in Europe.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, OUR PRODUCT
    CANDIDATES MAY BE RENDERED NONCOMPETITIVE OR OBSOLETE.   

Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective,
safer or more affordable products, or obtain more effective
patent protection, than we are able to. Accordingly, our
competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or
effectively than we are able to, which would adversely affect
our competitive position, the likelihood that our product
candidates will achieve initial market acceptance, and our
ability to generate meaningful revenues from our product
candidates. Even if our product candidates achieve initial
market acceptance, competitive products may render our products
obsolete, noncompetitive

34

Table of Contents   

or uneconomical. If our product candidates are rendered
obsolete, we may not be able to recover the expenses of
developing and commercializing those product candidates.

IF THIRD-PARTY PAYORS DO NOT ADEQUATELY REIMBURSE OUR
    CUSTOMERS FOR ANY OF OUR PRODUCTS THAT ARE APPROVED FOR
    MARKETING, THEY MIGHT NOT BE ACCEPTED BY PHYSICIANS AND PATIENTS
    OR PURCHASED OR USED, AND OUR REVENUES AND PROFITS WILL NOT
    DEVELOP OR INCREASE.   

Substantially all biotechnology products are distributed to
patients by physicians and hospitals, and in most cases, such
patients rely on insurance coverage and reimbursement to pay for
some or all of the cost of the product. In recent years, the
continuing efforts of government and third party payors to
contain or reduce health care costs have limited, and in certain
cases prevented, physicians and patients from receiving
insurance coverage and reimbursement for medical products,
especially newer technologies. We believe that the efforts of
governments and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost
of healthcare will continue to affect the business and financial
condition of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies.
Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each
governmental or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and
costly process that could require us to provide to each
prospective payor scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness
data for the use of our products. If we succeed in bringing any
of our product candidates to market and third-party payors
determine that the product is eligible for coverage; the
third-party payors may nonetheless establish and maintain price
levels insufficient for us to realize a sufficient return on our
investment in product development. Moreover, eligibility for
coverage does not imply that any product will be reimbursed in
all cases.

Our ability to generate adequate revenues and operating profits
could be adversely affected if such limitations or restrictions
are placed on the sale of our products. Specific risks
associated with medical insurance coverage and reimbursement
include:

Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of
    newly approved health care products; 

Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices
    charged for medical products and services; 

Adequate insurance coverage and reimbursement may not be
    available to allow us to charge prices for products which are
    adequate for us to realize an appropriate return on our
    development costs. If adequate coverage and reimbursement are
    not provided for use of our products, the market acceptance of
    these products will be negatively affected; 

Health maintenance organizations and other managed care
    companies may seek to negotiate substantial volume discounts for
    the sale of our products to their members thereby reducing our
    profit margins; and 

In recent years, bills proposing comprehensive health care
    reform have been introduced in Congress that would potentially
    limit pharmaceutical prices and establish mandatory or voluntary
    refunds. It is uncertain if any legislative proposals will be
    adopted and how federal, state or private payors for health care
    goods and services will respond to any health care reforms. 

U.S. drug prices may be further constrained by possible
Congressional action regarding drug reimportation into the
United States. Some proposed legislation would allow the
reimportation of approved drugs originally manufactured in the
United States back into the United States from other countries
where the drugs are sold at a lower price. Some governmental
authorities in the U.S. are pursuing lawsuits to obtain expanded
reimportation authority. Such legislation, regulations, or
judicial decisions could reduce the prices we receive for any
products that we may develop, negatively affecting our revenues
and prospects for profitability. Even without legislation
authorizing reimportation, increasing numbers of patients have
been purchasing prescription drugs from Canadian and other
non-United States sources, which has reduced the price received
by pharmaceutical companies for their products.

35

Table of Contents   

The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, the
agency within the Department of Health and Human Services that
administers Medicare and that is responsible for setting
Medicare reimbursement payment rates and coverage policies for
any product candidates that we commercialize, has authority to
decline to cover particular drugs if it determines that they are
not  reasonable and necessary  for Medicare
beneficiaries or to cover them at lower rates to reflect
budgetary constraints or to match previously approved
reimbursement rates for products that CMS considers to be
therapeutically comparable. Third-party payors often follow
Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting
their own reimbursement rates, and both Medicare and other
third-party payors may have sufficient market power to demand
significant price reductions.

Moreover, marketing and promotion arrangements in the
pharmaceutical industry are heavily regulated by CMS, and many
marketing and promotional practices that are common in other
industries are prohibited or restricted. These restrictions are
often ambiguous and subject to conflicting interpretations, but
carry severe administrative, civil, and criminal penalties for
noncompliance. It may be costly for us to implement internal
controls to facilitate compliance by our sales and marketing
personnel.

As a result of the trend towards managed healthcare in the
United States, as well as legislative proposals to constrain the
growth of federal healthcare program expenditures, third-party
payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs
by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both
coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drug products.
Consequently, significant uncertainty exists as to the
reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products.

MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG COVERAGE LEGISLATION AND FUTURE
    LEGISLATIVE OR REGULATORY REFORM OF THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM MAY
    AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO SELL OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES
    PROFITABLY.   

A number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the
healthcare system in the United States and other major
healthcare markets have been proposed in recent years. In
addition, ongoing initiatives in the United States have exerted
and will continue to exert pressure on drug pricing. In some
foreign countries, particularly countries of the European Union,
the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to
governmental control. Significant changes in the healthcare
system in the United States or elsewhere, including changes
resulting from the implementation of the Medicare prescription
drug coverage legislation and adverse trends in third-party
reimbursement programs, could limit our ability to raise capital
and successfully commercialize our product candidates.

In particular, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003 established a new Medicare
prescription drug benefit. The prescription drug program and
future amendments or regulatory interpretations of the
legislation could affect the prices we are able to charge for
any products we develop and sell for use by Medicare
beneficiaries and could also cause third-party payors other than
the federal government, including the states under the Medicaid
program, to discontinue coverage for any products we develop or
to lower reimbursement amounts that they pay. The legislation
changed the methodology used to calculate reimbursement for
drugs that are administered in physicians  offices in a
manner intended to reduce the amount that is subject to
reimbursement. In addition, the Medicare prescription drug
benefit program that took effect in January 2006 directed the
Secretary of Health and Human Services to contract with
procurement organizations to purchase physician-administered
drugs from manufacturers and provided physicians with the option
to obtain drugs through these organizations as an alternative to
purchasing from manufacturers, which some physicians may find
advantageous. Because we have not received marketing approval or
established a price for any product, it is difficult to predict
how this new legislation will affect us, but the legislation
generally is expected to constrain or reduce reimbursement for
certain types of drugs.

Further federal, state and foreign healthcare proposals and
reforms are likely. While we cannot predict the legislative or
regulatory proposals that will be adopted or what effect those
proposals may have on our business, including the future
reimbursement status of any of our product candidates, the
announcement or

36

Table of Contents   

adoption of such proposals could have an adverse effect on
potential revenues from product candidates that we may
successfully develop.

WE HAVE LIMITED MANUFACTURING CAPACITY AND MARKETING
    INFRASTRUCTURE AND EXPECT TO BE HEAVILY DEPENDENT UPON THIRD
    PARTIES TO MANUFACTURE AND MARKET APPROVED PRODUCTS.   

We currently have limited manufacturing facilities for either
clinical trial or commercial quantities of any of our product
candidates and currently have no plans to obtain additional
facilities. To date, we have obtained the limited quantities of
drug product required for preclinical and clinical trials from
contract manufacturing companies. We intend to continue using
contract manufacturing arrangements with experienced firms for
the supply of material for both clinical trials and any eventual
commercial sale, with the exception of Troponin and Oncomodulin,
which we presently plan to produce in our facility in Baltimore,
Maryland.

We will depend upon third parties to produce and deliver
products in accordance with all FDA and other governmental
regulations. We may not be able to contract with manufacturers
who can fulfill our requirements for quality, quantity and
timeliness, or be able to find substitute manufacturers, if
necessary. The failure by any third party to perform their
obligations in a timely fashion and in accordance with the
applicable regulations may delay clinical trials, the
commercialization of products, and the ability to supply product
for sale. In addition, any change in manufacturers could be
costly because the commercial terms of any new arrangement could
be less favorable and because the expenses relating to the
transfer of necessary technology and processes could be
significant.

With respect to our most advanced product candidate, ALTROPANE
molecular imaging agent, we have entered into an agreement with,
and are highly dependent upon, MDS Nordion. Under the terms of
the agreement, which currently expires on December 31,
2006, we paid MDS Nordion a one-time fee of $300,000 in
connection with its commitment to designate certain of its
facilities exclusively for the production of the ALTROPANE
molecular imaging agent. We also paid MDS Nordion approximately
$900,000 to establish a GMP certified manufacturing process for
the production of ALTROPANE. Finally, we agreed to minimum
monthly purchases of ALTROPANE through December 31, 2006.
We hope to sign an extension with MDS Nordion before
December 31, 2006 but there can be no assurance that we
will be able to or that the terms will be acceptable. The
agreement provides for MDS Nordion to manufacture the ALTROPANE
molecular imaging agent for our clinical trials. The agreement
also provides that MDS Nordion will compile and prepare the
information regarding manufacturing that will be a required
component of any NDA we file for ALTROPANE in the future. We do
not presently have arrangements with any other suppliers in the
event that Nordion is unable to manufacture ALTROPANE for us. We
could encounter a significant delay before another supplier
could manufacture ALTROPANE for us due to the time required to
establish a cGMP manufacturing process for ALTROPANE.

We currently have a limited marketing infrastructure. In order
to earn a profit on any future product, we will be required to
invest in the necessary sales and marketing infrastructure or
enter into collaborations with third parties with respect to
executing sales and marketing activities. We may encounter
difficulty in negotiating sales and marketing collaborations
with third parties on favorable terms for us. Most of the
companies who can provide such services are financially stronger
and more experienced in selling pharmaceutical products than we
are. As a result, they may be in a position to negotiate an
arrangement that is more favorable to them. We could experience
significant delays in marketing any of our products if we are
required to internally develop a sales and marketing
organization or establish collaborations with a partner. There
are risks involved with establishing our own sales and marketing
capabilities. We have no experience in performing such
activities and could incur significant costs in developing such
a capability.

37

Table of Contents   

USE OF THIRD PARTY MANUFACTURERS MAY INCREASE THE RISK
    THAT WE WILL NOT HAVE ADEQUATE SUPPLIES OF OUR PRODUCT
    CANDIDATES.   

Reliance on third party manufacturers entails risks to which we
would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates or
products ourselves, including:

Reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and
    quality assurance; 

The possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third
    party; and 

The possible termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the
    third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time
    that is costly or inconvenient for us. 

If we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our product
candidates and any approved products, it will be more difficult
for us to develop our product candidates and compete
effectively. Our product candidates and any products that we
successfully develop may compete with product candidates and
products of third parties for access to manufacturing
facilities. Our contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing,
periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding
state and foreign agencies or their designees to ensure strict
compliance with cGMP regulations and other governmental
regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We cannot be
certain that our present or future manufacturers will be able to
comply with cGMP regulations and other FDA regulatory
requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the
United States. We do not control compliance by our contract
manufacturers with these regulations and standards. Failure of
our third party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable
regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us,
including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of
regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our
product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of
approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product
candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal
prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely
affect supplies of our product candidates and products.

Risks Related to Employees and Growth 

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RETAIN OUR KEY PERSONNEL AND/ OR
    RECRUIT ADDITIONAL KEY PERSONNEL IN THE FUTURE, THEN WE MAY NOT
    BE ABLE TO OPERATE EFFECTIVELY.   

Our success depends significantly upon our ability to attract,
retain and motivate highly qualified scientific and management
personnel who are able to formulate, implement and maintain the
operations of a biotechnology company such as ours. We consider
retaining Peter Savas, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Mark Pykett, our President and Chief Operating Officer and
Kenneth L. Rice, Jr., our Executive Vice President Finance
and Administration and Chief Financial Officer to be key to our
efforts to develop and commercialize our product candidates. The
loss of the service of any of these key executives may
significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product
development and other business objectives. On March 31,
2006, we entered into employment and non-compete agreements with
Messrs. Savas, Pykett and Rice. We do not presently carry
key person life insurance on any of our scientific or management
personnel.

We currently outsource most of our research and development,
preclinical and clinical activities. If we decide to increase
our internal research and development capabilities for any of
our technologies, we may need to hire additional key management
and scientific personnel to assist the limited number of
employees that we currently employ. There is significant
competition for such personnel from other companies, research
and academic institutions, government entities and other
organizations. If we fail to attract such personnel, it could
have a significant negative effect on our ability to develop our
technologies.

38

Table of Contents   

Risks Related to our Stock 

OUR STOCK PRICE MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE AND CAN BE
    AFFECTED BY FACTORS UNRELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING
    PERFORMANCE.   

The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly
in response to factors that are beyond our control. The stock
market in general periodically experiences significant price and
volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been volatile,
and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated
or disproportionate to the operating performance of these
companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in
significant fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which
could cause a decline in the value of your investment. The
market price of our common stock may be influenced by many
factors, including:

Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial
    products by our competitors or us; 

Announcements in the scientific and research community; 

Developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; 

Delay or failure in initiating, conducting, completing or
    analyzing clinical trials or problems relating to the design,
    conduct or results of these trials; 

Announcement of FDA approval or non-approval of our product
    candidates or delays in the FDA review process; 

Developments concerning our collaborations; 

Publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating
    to products under development by our competitors or us; 

Failure of any of our product candidates to achieve commercial
    success; 

Our ability to manufacture products to commercial standards; 

Conditions and publicity regarding the life sciences industry
    generally; 

Regulatory developments in the United States and foreign
    countries; 

Changes in the structure of health care payment systems; 

Period-to -period
    fluctuations in our financial results or those of companies that
    are perceived to be similar to us; 

Departure of our key personnel; 

Future sales of our common stock; 

Investors  perceptions of us, our products, the economy and
    general market conditions; 

Differences in actual financial results versus financial
    estimates by securities analysts and changes in those
    estimates; and 

Litigation. 

CHANGES IN STOCK OPTION ACCOUNTING RULES MAY HAVE A
    SIGNIFICANT ADVERSE AFFECT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS.   

We have a history of using broad based employee stock option
programs to hire, incentive and retain our workforce in a
competitive marketplace. Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  allows companies the choice of either using
a fair value method of accounting for options that would result
in expense recognition for all options granted, or using an
intrinsic value method, as prescribed by Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,  or APB 25, with a pro forma disclosure of
the impact on net income (loss)

39

Table of Contents   

allocable to common stockholders of using the fair value option
expense recognition method. We have elected to apply APB 25
and, accordingly, we generally have not recognized any expense
with respect to employee stock options as long as such options
are granted at exercise prices equal to the fair value of our
common stock on the date of grant.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
issued SFAS No. 123 (revised),  Share-Based
Payment  (Statement 123R). Statement 123R
requires that the compensation cost relating to share-based
payment transactions be recognized in financial statements. That
cost will be measured based on the grant-date fair value of the
equity instruments issued, which may be determined with
references to various valuation models. These models may involve
extensive and complex analysis. Statement 123R is effective
for us beginning on January  1, 2006, which is the
first day of our 2006 fiscal year. While we continue to evaluate
the effect that the adoption of Statement 123R will have on
our financial position and results of operations, we currently
expect that our adoption of Statement 123R will increase
our net loss.

ITEM 1B.  
     
      Unresolved Staff Comments.   

Not applicable.

ITEM 2.  
     
      Properties.   

Our corporate office is located in Hopkinton, Massachusetts. We
lease approximately 5,900 square feet of office space which
expires in 2008 and provides for a three-year renewal option. We
also lease 3,300 square feet of laboratory space located in
Baltimore, Maryland that expires in May 2006. We are currently
negotiating an extension to this lease. In addition, we lease
2,500 square feet of office space located in Woburn,
Massachusetts that expires in August 2006.

Our lease in Boston, Massachusetts expires in 2012. We have
entered into two sublease agreements covering all
6,600 square feet under this lease.

We believe that our existing facilities are adequate for their
present and anticipated purposes, except that additional
facilities will be needed if we elect to expand our laboratory
and/or manufacturing activities.

ITEM 3.  
     
      Legal Proceedings.   

We are subject to legal proceedings in the normal course of
business. We are not currently a party to any material legal
proceedings.

ITEM 4.  
     
      Submission of Matters to a Vote of SecurityHolders.   

Not applicable.

40

Table of Contents   

PART II 

Item 5.  
     
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities.   

Market Information   

Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the
symbol BLSI. In February 2005, we implemented a one-for-five
reverse split of our common stock. Unless otherwise noted, data
used throughout this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  is
adjusted to reflect the reverse stock split.

The following table sets forth the high and low per share sales
prices for our common stock for each of the quarters in the
period beginning January 1, 2004 through December 31,
2005 as reported on the NASDAQ Capital Market.

Holders   

As of March 23, 2006, there were approximately 3,100
holders of record of our common stock. As of March 23,
2006, there were approximately 13,000 beneficial holders of our
common stock.

Dividends   

We have not paid or declared any cash dividends on our common
stock and do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common
stock in the foreseeable future. We paid $314,987 and $201,760
in cash dividends to the former holders of outstanding
Series E Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock effective
February 4, 2005 and October 31, 2004, respectively.

41

Table of Contents   

Item 6.  
     
      Selected Consolidated Financial Data.   

The selected consolidated financial data set forth below with
respect to our consolidated statement of operations for each of
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005
and our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2005
and 2004 are derived from and qualified by reference to our
audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes
thereto found at  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  herein. The consolidated statement of
operations data for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 are derived from our
audited consolidated financial statements not included in this
Annual Report on
Form  10-K.  The
selected consolidated financial data set forth below should be
read in conjunction with and is qualified in its entirety by our
audited consolidated financial statements and related notes
thereto found at  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  and  Item 7.
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  which are included elsewhere in
this Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

42

Table of Contents   

Item 7.  
     
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations.   

Our management s discussion and analysis of our financial
condition and results of operations include the identification
of certain trends and other statements that may predict or
anticipate future business or financial results that are subject
to important factors that could cause our actual results to
differ materially from those indicated. See Item 1A,
 Risk Factors. 

Overview 

Description of Company   

We are a development stage biotechnology company engaged in the
research and development of biopharmaceutical products for the
diagnosis and treatment of central nervous system, or CNS,
disorders. Our current product candidate pipeline includes
diagnostic and therapeutic programs based on proprietary
technologies. We are developing diagnostic agents in molecular
imaging, and therapeutic drugs for axon regeneration, blockade
of the Dopamine Transporter, or DAT, and anti-angiogenesis. Our
programs target unmet medical needs in the diagnosis and
treatment of Parkinson s Disease, or PD, the diagnosis of
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, or ADHD, the treatment
of stroke and the treatment of certain ocular conditions.

At December 31, 2005, we were considered a
 development stage enterprise  as defined in Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 7,  Accounting
and Reporting by Development Stage Enterprises. 

As of December 31, 2005, we have experienced total net
losses since inception of approximately $117,000,000. For the
foreseeable future, we expect to experience continuing operating
losses and negative cash flows from operations as our management
executes our current business plan. The cash, cash equivalents,
and marketable securities available at December 31, 2005
will not provide sufficient working capital to meet our
anticipated expenditures for the next twelve months. We believe
that the cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities
available at December 31, 2005 and our ability to control
certain costs, including those related to clinical trial
programs, preclinical activities, and certain general and
administrative expenses will enable us to meet our anticipated
cash expenditures through June 2006. We will therefore need to
raise additional capital through one or more of the following:
collaboration, merger, acquisition or other transaction with
other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, or through a
debt financing or equity offering to continue as a going
concern. We are currently engaged in collaboration, merger,
acquisition and other related fundraising efforts. There can be
no assurance, however, that we will be successful in our
collaboration, merger, acquisition or other fundraising efforts
or that additional funds will be available on acceptable terms,
if at all. In connection with our common stock financing
completed by us in March 2005, we agreed with the purchasers in
such financing, or the March 2005 Investors, that, subject to
certain exceptions, we would not issue any shares of our common
stock at a per share price less than $2.50 without the prior
consent of the purchasers holding a majority of the shares
issued in such financing. On March 23, 2006, the closing
price of our common stock was $2.87. The failure to receive the
requisite waiver or consent of the March 2005 Investors could
have the effect of delaying or preventing the consummation of a
financing by us. If we are unable to raise additional capital we
may need to reduce, cease or delay one or more of our research
or development programs and adjust our current business plan.

Our ability to continue development of our programs, including
our Phase III program of ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent
as a diagnostic for Parkinsonian Syndromes, or PS, the
Phase II program of ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent as a
diagnostic for ADHD and our preclinical programs including those
in axon regeneration, PD therapeutics and ocular therapeutics
may be affected by the availability of financial resources to
fund each program. Financial considerations may cause us to
modify planned development activities for one or more of our
programs, and we may decide to suspend development of one or
more programs until we are able to secure additional working
capital. If we are not able to raise additional capital, we may
not have sufficient funds to complete our Phase III
clinical trials of ALTROPANE as a diagnostic for PS or the
Phase II program of ALTROPANE as a diagnostic for ADHD.

43

Table of Contents   

We continually evaluate possible acquisitions of, or investments
in, businesses, technologies and products that are complementary
to our business. We believe that a near-term opportunity exists
to take advantage of market dynamics and financing conditions in
our sector that we believe could enable us to acquire on
favorable terms select biotechnology and drug development
companies that have sound technical foundations, strong
technical leadership and shareholders amenable to change and
further investment in the combined entity.

The consideration paid in connection with an acquisition also
affects our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or
more significant acquisitions in which the consideration
included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion
of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. To the
extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase
stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders
may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition,
acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large
one-time write-offs and restructuring charges. They may also
result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject
to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment
charges. To the extent that we use common stock for all or a
portion of the consideration to be paid for future acquisitions,
our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution.

In order to effect an acquisition, we may need additional
financing. We cannot be certain that any such financing will be
available on terms favorable or acceptable to us, or at all. If
we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity,
equity-related or debt securities, these securities may have
rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights
of our common stockholders, who would then experience dilution.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify or
successfully complete any acquisitions.

Product Development   

Molecular Imaging Program  

The ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent is being developed for two
indications: the differential diagnosis of 1) PS (including
PD), and non-PS in patients with tremor; and 2) ADHD. We
have completed an initial Phase III trial of ALTROPANE for
use in differentiating PS movement disorders from other movement
disorders. In April 2004, we reached an agreement with the Food
and Drug Administration, or FDA, under the Special Protocol
Assessment, or SPA, process regarding our protocol design for a
new Phase III clinical trial of ALTROPANE designed to
distinguish PS from non-PS in patients with tremors. This trial
was designed to enroll a minimum of 500 patients and
required that the statistical significance of the results reach
a  p-value  of less than
0.02. Under the SPA, interim analysis of trial data was not
permitted. Patient enrollment in this trial was initiated in
July 2004 and continued into 2005. In August 2005, we reached
agreement with the FDA on a new SPA providing for an amended
Phase III program that specified two clinical protocols:
1) Parkinson s or Essential Tremor-1, or POET-1, and
2) a new protocol Parkinson s or Essential Tremor-2,
or POET-2. This new SPA permitted us to conduct two smaller
Phase III trials and lower the statistical endpoint hurdle
of the two trials from p 0.02 to p 0.05. The FDA agreed
to allow all subjects enrolled under the terms of the old SPA to
be retained for purposes of the new SPA. Under the new SPA,
interim analysis of data was still not permitted. Publication of
the results of POET-1 prior to the completion of POET-2 was also
prohibited. POET-1 and POET-2 were to occur sequentially. The
primary endpoint for POET-1 is the confirmation that the
diagnostic accuracy of the ALTROPANE molecular imaging agent is
statistically superior to the diagnostic accuracy of the
internist or general practitioner. A diagnosis of a Movement
Disorder Specialist, was utilized as the  gold
standard.  Based on certain statistical and modeling
assumptions, we initially estimated that the POET-1 trial would
require enrollment of approximately 332 subjects to meet the
endpoints and be statistically significant.

After a series of discussions with the FDA, in March 2006, we
notified the FDA that we elected to terminate our SPA and end
POET-1 enrollment so we could analyze the complete set of
clinical data for efficacy. No safety issues were identified in
the trial. Based on the previous performance of ALTROPANE and
our permitted monitoring of non-blinded data from the
approximately 200 patients enrolled in the

44

Table of Contents   

POET-1 trial to date, statistical modeling indicated that POET-1
may have already enrolled enough subjects in the trial to
evaluate the efficacy of ALTROPANE. We based our original plan
for enrolling 332 subjects in POET-1 in part on published
reports in scientific journals that indicated a 20 to
30 percent misdiagnosis rate in the early stages of PD. Our
review of the data from subjects enrolled in the POET-1 trial
indicates that the error rate of general practitioners who
participated in POET-1 is much higher. As such, the statistical
modeling indicates that if the performance of ALTROPANE in
POET-1 is consistent with its historical performance in earlier
trials, statistical significance may be achieved after enrolling
slightly over half the originally planned number of subjects. We
expect to receive results of the data analysis during the third
quarter of 2006. After review of the results, we will determine
the future clinical development plan for the ALTROPANE program,
including, but not limited to POET-2. There can be no assurance
that POET-1 has achieved statistical significance.

We are currently in the process of assembling the necessary
safety and clinical databases required as part of a New Drug
Application, or NDA, submission. Preparation and submission of
an NDA is typically a time consuming and costly process. There
can be no assurance that the trials will be successful, that we
will have sufficient resources to complete and submit the NDA,
that we will be able to assemble the required information
required for an NDA submission, or that the FDA will not request
additional clinical trial data or other regulatory information
before it will accept an NDA submission for ALTROPANE.

We are currently analyzing the imaging results and the clinical
data obtained from patients enrolled to-date in our
Phase IIb clinical trial using ALTROPANE molecular imaging
agent for the diagnosis of ADHD to ensure that the trial design
and quantitation algorithms are appropriate for this patient
population. We are also collaborating with outside experts to
validate and refine the algorithm used to interpret the scans to
ensure consistent and reproducible results. There can be no
assurance that we will proceed with our Phase IIb trial, or
if continued, that it will be successfully completed.

We are developing a technetium-based molecular imaging agent for
the diagnosis of PD and ADHD. Our technetium-based molecular
imaging program is in the preclinical stage of development and
we believe that we will submit an Investigational New Drug
application, or IND, for our technetium-based molecular imaging
program during the fourth quarter of 2007. There can be no
assurance that resources will be available to continue and
complete the development activities being conducted, that the
program will result in data that supports the continued
development required to file an IND, or that we will be able to
submit an IND during the fourth quarter of 2007.

Axon Regeneration Program  

Inosine is a proprietary axon regeneration factor that
specifically promotes axon outgrowth in CNS neurons. In July
2004, we filed an IND application with the FDA for the use of
INOSINE to enhance motor functional recovery after stroke. In
September 2004, we announced that we received a written response
to our INOSINE IND filing from the FDA. In its response, the FDA
placed our Phase I study on clinical hold pending the
submission of additional pharmacology and toxicology data. In
August 2005, we completed and submitted the results of certain
studies requested by the FDA. In October 2005, the FDA informed
us that we remained on clinical hold pending receipt of
additional information from existing tissue samples and related
data from preclinical studies performed at contract
laboratories. We are attempting to obtain the related data and
assess if there are sufficient tissue samples of suitable
quality to satisfy the additional FDA requests. Assuming that we
are able to obtain these necessary samples and data, we plan to
complete our clinical hold response and submit it to the FDA.
There is no assurance that the requested tissues and data remain
available or that our response, when and if completed, will be
adequate, that we will be taken off clinical hold or that other
preclinical studies will not be required by the FDA prior to
initiating the Phase I trial. Additional preclinical
studies could result in additional costs and delays in our
INOSINE program.

45

Table of Contents   

Parkinson s Disease Therapeutic Program  

We are developing a DAT blocker for the treatment of PD. We have
identified several promising lead compounds. Our DAT blocking
program is in preclinical development and we believe that we
will submit an IND for our PD therapeutic program during the
first half of 2008. There can be no assurance that resources
will be available to continue and complete the development
activities being conducted, that the program will result in data
that supports the continued development required to file an IND,
or that we will be able to submit an IND during the first half
of 2008.

Ocular Therapeutic Program  

Our ocular therapeutic program is designed to leverage our
intellectual property estate to derive value from alternative
uses of our compounds already in development. The overall
objective with the program is to develop a sufficiently broad
and deep set of in-vitro and animal data to demonstrate to
potential development and commercialization partners the
potential utility of our compounds as therapeutics for important
eye diseases and regeneration of damaged optic nerve axons.

There are two recombinant proteins under development within the
ocular therapeutic program. Troponin I, or Troponin, is
being studied as a therapeutic to control abnormal new blood
vessel formation (angiogenesis) in the eye. Control of such
blood vessel growth is viewed as important in the treatment of
wet age related macular degeneration, or AMD, as well as
potentially diabetic retinopathy. The second protein is
Oncomodulin, or MDP-14, which is being tested to determine its
potential utility to enhance axon regeneration after acute
injury to the optic nerve and possibly glaucoma.

Sales and Marketing and Government Regulation   

To date, we have not marketed, distributed or sold any products
and, with the exception of ALTROPANE, all of our technologies
and early-stage product candidates are in preclinical
development. Our product candidates must undergo a rigorous
regulatory approval process which includes extensive preclinical
and clinical testing to demonstrate safety and efficacy before
any resulting product can be marketed. The FDA has stringent
standards with which we must comply before we can test our
product candidates in humans or make them commercially
available. Preclinical testing and clinical trials are lengthy
and expensive and the historical rate of failure for product
candidates is high. Clinical trials require sufficient patient
enrollment which is a function of many factors. Delays and
difficulties in completing patient enrollment can result in
increased costs and longer development times. The foregoing
uncertainties and risks limit our ability to estimate the timing
and amount of future costs that will be required to complete the
clinical development of each program. In addition, we are unable
to estimate when material net cash inflows are expected to
commence as a result of the successful completion of one or more
of our programs.

Research and Development   

Following is information on the direct research and development
costs incurred on our principal scientific technology programs
currently under development. These amounts do not include
research and development employee and related overhead costs
which total approximately $14,731,000 on a cumulative basis.

Estimating costs and time to complete development of a specific
program or technology is difficult due to the uncertainties of
the development process and the requirements of the FDA which
could require

46

Table of Contents   

additional clinical trials or other development and testing.
Results of any testing could lead to a decision to change or
terminate development of a technology, in which case estimated
future costs could change substantially. In the event we were to
enter into a licensing or other collaborative agreement with a
corporate partner involving sharing or funding by such corporate
partner of development costs, the estimated development costs
incurred by us could be substantially less than estimated.
Additionally, research and development costs are extremely
difficult to estimate for early-stage technologies due to the
fact that there are generally less comprehensive data available
for such technologies to determine the development activities
that would be required prior to the filing of an NDA. As a
result, we cannot reasonably estimate the cost and the date of
completion for any technology that is not at least in
Phase III clinical development due to the uncertainty
regarding the number of required trials, the size of such trials
and the duration of development. We are currently analyzing what
additional expenditures may be required to complete the
Phase III clinical trial program for ALTROPANE for the
diagnosis of PS and cannot reasonably estimate the cost of this
Phase III clinical trial program at this time.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and
results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial
statements which have been prepared by us in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. The preparation of these financial statements requires
us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and
related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Our
estimates include those related to marketable securities,
research contracts, the fair value and classification of equity
instruments and our lease accrual. We base our estimates on
historical experience and on various other assumptions that we
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual
results may differ from these estimates under different
assumptions or conditions.

Marketable Securities   

Our marketable securities consist exclusively of investments in
United States agency bonds and corporate debt obligations. These
marketable securities are adjusted to fair value on the
condensed consolidated balance sheet through other comprehensive
income. If a decline in the fair value of a security is
considered to be other than temporary, the investment is written
down to a new cost basis and the unrealized loss is removed from
accumulated other comprehensive loss and recorded in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations. We evaluate whether a
decline in fair value is other than temporary based on factors
such as the significance of the decline, the duration of time
for which the decline has been in existence and our ability and
intent to hold the security to maturity. To date, we have not
recorded any other than temporary impairments related to our
marketable securities. These marketable securities are
classified as current assets because they are highly liquid and
are available, as required, to meet working capital and other
operating requirements.

Research Contracts   

We regularly enter into contracts with third parties to perform
research and development activities on our behalf in connection
with our scientific technologies. Costs incurred under these
contracts are recognized ratably over the term of the contract
or based on actual enrollment levels which we believe
corresponds to the manner in which the work is performed.
Clinical trial, contract services and other outside costs
require that we make estimates of the costs incurred in a given
accounting period and record accruals at period end as the third
party service periods and billing terms do not always coincide
with our period end. We base our estimates on our knowledge of
the research and development programs, services performed for
the period, past history for related activities and the expected
duration of the third party service contract, where applicable.

47

Table of Contents   

Fair Value and Classification of Equity Instruments   

Historically, we have issued warrants to purchase shares of our
common stock in connection with our debt and equity financings.
We record each of the securities issued on a relative fair value
basis up to the amount of the proceeds received. We estimate the
fair value of the warrants using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model. The Black-Scholes model is dependent on a number
of variables and estimates including: interest rates, dividend
yield, volatility and the expected term of the warrants. Our
estimates are based on market interest rates at the date of
issuance, our past history for declaring dividends, our
estimated stock price volatility and the contractual term of the
warrants. The value ascribed to the warrants in connection with
debt offerings is considered a cost of capital and amortized to
interest expense over the term of the debt.

We have, at certain times, issued preferred stock and notes,
which were convertible into common stock at a discount from the
common stock market price at the date of issuance. The
discounted amount associated with such conversion rights
represents an incremental yield, or  beneficial conversion
feature  that is recorded when the consideration allocated
to the convertible security, divided by the number of common
shares into which the security converts, is below the fair value
of the common stock at the date of issuance of the convertible
instrument.

A beneficial conversion feature associated with the preferred
stock is recognized as a return to the preferred shareholders
and represents a non-cash charge in the determination of net
loss available to common stockholders. The beneficial conversion
feature is recognized in full immediately if there is no
redemption date for the preferred stock, or over the period of
issuance through the redemption date, if applicable. A
beneficial conversion feature associated with debentures, notes
or other debt instruments is recognized as discount to the debt
and is amortized as additional interest expense ratably over the
remaining term of the debt instrument.

Lease Accrual   

We are required to make significant judgments and assumptions
when estimating the liability for our net ongoing obligations
under our amended lease agreement relating to our former
executive offices located in Boston, Massachusetts. In
accordance with SFAS 146,  Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities,  we use a
discounted cash-flow analysis to calculate the amount of the
liability. We applied a discount rate of 15% representing our
best estimate of our credit adjusted risk-free rate. The
discounted cash-flow analysis is based on management s
assumptions and estimates of our ongoing lease obligations, and
income from sublease rentals, including estimates of sublease
timing and sublease rental terms. It is possible that our
estimates and assumptions will change in the future, resulting
in additional adjustments to the amount of the estimated
liability, and the effect of any adjustments could be material.
We will review our assumptions and judgments related to the
lease amendment on at least a quarterly basis, until the outcome
is finalized, and make whatever modifications we believe are
necessary, based on our best judgment, to reflect any changed
circumstances.

Results of Operations 

Our net loss was $11,501,442 during the year ended
December 31, 2005 as compared with $11,250,877 during the
year ended December 31, 2004. Our net loss attributable to
common stockholders was $12,216,957 during the year ended
December 31, 2005 as compared with $11,730,922 during the
year ended December 31, 2004. Net loss attributable to
common stockholders totaled $1.03 per share during 2005 as
compared with $1.73 per share during 2004. The increase in
net loss in 2005 was primarily due to higher general and
administrative expenses partially offset by a reduction in
interest expense. The decrease in net loss attributable to
common stockholders on a per share basis in 2005 was primarily
due to an increase in weighted average shares outstanding of
approximately 5,011,000 shares in 2005, which was primarily
the result of the private placements of common stock completed
in March and September 2005.

48

Table of Contents   

Research and development expenses were $6,127,486 during the
year ended December 31, 2005 as compared with $6,400,132
during the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in
2005 was primarily attributable to a reduction in preclinical
costs for INOSINE of approximately $2,675,000 associated with
certain animal toxicology studies completed in 2004. This
decrease was partially offset by higher clinical trial costs for
POET-1 of approximately $1,718,000 associated with increased
enrollment, higher compensation and related costs of $293,000
and employee severance costs of approximately $366,000. We
currently anticipate that our research and development expenses
will increase over the next twelve months although there may be
significant fluctuations on a quarterly basis. This expected
increase is primarily related to costs associated with the
assembly and preparation of our safety and clinical databases
for ALTROPANE and preclinical costs for our axon regeneration,
DAT blocker and molecular imaging agent programs. Our current
working capital constraints may limit our planned expenditures.

General and administrative expenses were $5,520,498 during the
year ended December 31, 2005 as compared with $3,981,297
during the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in
2005 was primarily related to higher compensation and related
costs of approximately $1,059,000 due to increased headcount,
higher employee severance costs of approximately $204,000,
higher commercialization and communication costs of
approximately $293,000 and certain lease costs of approximately
$351,000 related to the lease at our former corporate
headquarters. The increase was partially offset by the absence
of costs in 2005 associated with the Settlement and Standstill
Agreement, or Settlement Agreement, we entered into in June 2004
with Robert Gipson, Thomas Boucher, Ingalls & Snyder, LLC,
or I&S, and Ingalls & Snyder Value Partners, L.P. As
part of the Settlement Agreement, we paid $300,000 to I&S as
reimbursement for certain expenses and approximately $278,000 to
our former Chairman of the Board of Directors in connection with
consulting and separation agreements. We currently anticipate
that our general and administrative expenses will increase over
the next twelve months although there may be significant
fluctuations on a quarterly basis. This expected increase is
primarily related to costs associated with our commercialization
and communication efforts primarily related to our ALTROPANE
molecular imaging agent program and costs associated with
compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This increase is
anticipated to be offset by a reduction in severance and lease
costs associated with our former headquarters.

Interest expense totaled $45,964 during the year ended
December 31, 2005 as compared to $1,010,536 during the year
ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in the 2005 period
was attributable to the prepayment in November 2004 of the
outstanding principal plus accrued interest on the
10% Convertible Senior Secured Promissory Notes, or Notes.
The decrease was partially offset by non-cash interest expense
of approximately $44,000 incurred in February 2005 when we
agreed to lower the exercise price of a warrant to
purchase 100,000 shares of our common stock held by
Ingalls & Snyder Value Partners, L.P., or ISVP, in
return for its immediate exercise in cash.

Investment income was $194,763 during the year ended
December 31, 2005 as compared with investment income of
$141,088 during the year ended December 31, 2004. The
increase was primarily due to higher average cash, cash
equivalent and marketable securities balances in 2005.

Accrual of preferred stock dividends and the modification of
warrants held by the preferred stock holders was $715,515 during
the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared with $480,045
during the year ended December 31, 2004. In December 2003,
we issued 800 shares of Series E Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, or Series E Stock, with a
purchase price of $10,000 per share of Series E Stock
which initially yielded a cumulative dividend of 4% per
annum with a potential increase to 8% in June 2005. In February
2005, we entered into agreements with the holders of
Series E Stock, or the Holders, whereby the Holders agreed
to convert their Series E Stock into common stock. We
agreed to pay a dividend of $564.44 for each share of
Series E Stock held by the Holders that was converted and
to lower the exercise price of the warrants held by the holders
of Series E Stock from $7.71 to $0.05. We recorded a charge
of $655,992 to net loss attributable to common stockholders
under the Black-Scholes pricing model in connection with the
re-pricing of the warrants. We recorded a charge of $59,523 to
net loss attributable to common stockholders during 2005 related
to the accrual of preferred stock dividends as compared with
$480,045 during 2004.

49

Table of Contents   

At December 31, 2005, we had net deferred tax assets of
approximately $23,316,000 for which a full valuation allowance
has been established. As a result of our concentrated efforts on
research and development, we have a history of incurring net
operating losses, or NOL, and expect to incur additional net
operating losses for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we
have concluded that it is more likely than not that the future
benefits related to the deferred tax assets will not be realized
and, therefore, we have provided a full valuation allowance for
these assets. In the event we achieve profitability, these
deferred tax assets may be available to offset future income tax
liabilities and expense, subject to limitations that may occur
from ownership changes under provisions of the Internal Revenue
Code. In 1995 and 2005, we experienced a change in ownership as
defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In
general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382,
results from transactions increasing the ownership of certain
shareholders or public groups in the stock of a corporation by
more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period.
Since our formation, we have raised capital through the issuance
of capital stock on several occasions which, combined with
shareholders  subsequent disposition of those shares, has
resulted in two changes of control, as defined by
Section 382. As a result of the most recent ownership
change, utilization of our NOLs is subject to an annual
limitation under Section 382 determined by multiplying the
value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the
applicable long-term tax-exempt rate resulting in an annual
limitation amount of approximately $1,000,000. Any unused annual
limitation may be carried over to later years, and the amount of
the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be subject to
adjustment if the fair value of our net assets are determined to
be below or in excess of the tax basis of such assets at the
time of the ownership change, and such unrealized loss or gain
is recognized during the five-year period after the ownership
change.

Our net loss was $11,250,877 during the year ended
December 31, 2004 as compared with $8,367,994 during the
year ended December 31, 2003. Net loss attributable to
common stockholders totaled $1.73 per share during 2004 as
compared with $1.82 per share during 2003. The higher net
loss in 2004 was primarily due to higher research and
development, general and administrative and interest expenses.
The lower net loss attributable to common stockholders on a per
share basis in 2004 was primarily due to the absence in 2004 of
a preferred stock beneficial conversation feature and an
increase in weighted average shares outstanding of approximately
694,000 shares in 2004, which was primarily the result of
conversions of preferred stock into common stock in 2004.

Research and development expenses were $6,400,132 during the
year ended December 31, 2004 as compared with $4,383,237
during the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase in
2004 was primarily attributable to higher preclinical costs for
INOSINE of approximately $1,858,000 associated with certain
animal toxicology studies and higher clinical trial costs for
ALTROPANE of approximately $503,000 related to the initiation of
our second Phase III trial.

General and administrative expenses were $3,981,297 during the
year ended December 31, 2004 as compared with $3,531,650
during the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase in
2004 was primarily related to higher legal and consulting
expenses of approximately $970,000 largely associated with the
Settlement Agreement. We also incurred corporate legal expenses
of approximately $100,000 primarily in connection with the
Settlement Agreement, including related litigation filed prior
to execution of the Settlement Agreement. This increase was
partially offset by lower payroll costs in 2004 of approximately
$317,000 due to lower headcount and lower patent-related legal
fees of approximately $55,000.

Interest expense totaled $1,010,536 during the year ended
December 31, 2004 as compared to $755,850 during the year
ended December 31, 2003. The increase in 2004 was primarily
due to higher non-cash interest expense related to the
amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes
resulting from the beneficial conversion features recorded in
fiscal 2003. In connection with our March 2003 private
placement, the conversion price of the Notes was reduced to
$5.00 per share in accordance with the anti-dilution
provisions of the Notes creating beneficial conversion features
of approximately $368,000. In June 2003, we issued $207,167 in
principal amount of Notes for interest accrued through
June 1, 2003. The $207,167 Note was issued with a
conversion price of $5.00 which was below the market

50

Table of Contents   

price of the common stock at the date of issuance resulting in a
beneficial conversion feature of approximately $190,000.
Beneficial conversion features are recognized as a decrease in
the carrying value of the Notes and an increase in additional
paid in capital. During 2004, we incurred approximately $375,000
in interest payable in cash on the 10% coupon on the Notes,
$581,000 in non-cash interest primarily associated with the
amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes and
$55,000 in amortization of debt issuance costs. During the 2004
period, the Notes bore an effective interest rate of
approximately 17% based on the fair value of the Notes.

Investment income was $141,088 during the year ended
December 31, 2004 as compared with investment income of
$302,743 during the year ended December 31, 2003. The
decrease was primarily due to a realized loss in the 2004 period
of approximately $21,000 as compared to a realized gain of
approximately $115,000 in 2003.

Accrual of preferred stock dividends was $480,045 during the
year ended December 31, 2004 as compared with $34,029
during the year ended December 31, 2003. In December 2003,
we issued 800 shares of Series E Stock with a purchase
price of $10,000 per share of Series E Stock which
initially yielded a cumulative dividend of 4% per annum
increasing to 8% in June 2005.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Net cash used for operating activities, primarily related to our
net loss, totaled $10,600,774 in 2005 as compared to $9,666,437
in 2004. The increase in 2005 is primarily related to higher
general and administrative expenses in 2005. Net cash used for
investing activities totaled $7,424,103 in 2005 as compared to
cash provided by investing activities of $8,303,378 in 2004. The
increase in net cash used for investing activities principally
reflects the decrease in restricted cash in 2004 and the
purchase of marketable securities with the proceeds from the
private placements, described below, net of the sales of
marketable securities which were subsequently used to fund
operations. Net cash provided by financing activities totaled
$18,450,411 in 2005 as compared to cash used for financing
activities of $4,572,428 in 2004. The increase in net cash
provided by financing activities principally reflects the effect
of the private placements described below and the payments of
notes payable and preferred stock dividends paid by us in 2005.

As of December 31, 2005, we have incurred total net losses
since inception of approximately $117,000,000. To date, we have
dedicated most of our financial resources to the research and
development of our product candidates, general and
administrative expenses and costs related to obtaining and
protecting patents. Since inception, we have primarily satisfied
our working capital requirements from the sale of our securities
through private placements. These private placements have
included the sale of preferred stock and common stock, as well
as notes payable and convertible debentures. A summary of
financings completed during the three years ended
December 31, 2005 is as follows:

In the future, our working capital and capital requirements will
depend on numerous factors, including the progress of our
research and development activities, the level of resources that
we devote to the developmental, clinical, and regulatory aspects
of our technologies, and the extent to which we enter into
collaborative relationships with pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies.

At December 31, 2005, we had available cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable securities of approximately
$9,329,000 and a working capital of approximately $7,466,000.
The cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities available
at December 31, 2005 will not provide sufficient working
capital to meet our anticipated expenditures for the next twelve
months. We believe that the cash, cash equivalents,

51

Table of Contents   

and marketable securities available at December 31, 2005
and our ability to control certain costs, including those
related to clinical trial programs, preclinical activities, and
certain general and administrative expenses will enable us to
meet our anticipated cash expenditures through June 2006. We
will therefore need to raise additional capital through one or
more of the following: collaboration, merger, acquisition or
other transaction with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology
companies, or through a debt financing or equity offering to
continue as a going concern. We are currently engaged in
collaboration, merger, acquisition and other related fundraising
efforts. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be
successful in our collaboration, merger, acquisition or other
fundraising efforts or that additional funds will be available
on acceptable terms, if at all. In connection with our common
stock financing completed by us in March 2005, we agreed with
the March 2005 Investors, that, subject to certain exceptions,
we would not issue any shares of our common stock at a per share
price less than $2.50 without the prior consent of the
purchasers holding a majority of the shares issued in such
financing. On March 23, 2006, the closing price of our
common stock was $2.87. The failure to receive the requisite
waiver or consent of the March 2005 Investors could have the
effect of delaying or preventing the consummation of a financing
by us. If we are unable to raise additional capital we may need
to reduce, cease or delay one or more of our research or
development programs and adjust our current business plan.

Contractual Obligations and Commitments 

Our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005, are
approximately as follows:

(1)  
     
    Such amounts primarily include minimum rental payments for our
    office and laboratory leases in Massachusetts and Maryland. We
    have office and laboratory leases that expire through 2008. In
    addition, we have an office lease that expires in 2012 for which
    we have entered into two sublease agreements covering the entire
    leased space. Total rent expense under all of our leases was
    approximately $331,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. 

(2)  
     
    Such amounts primarily reflect research and development
    commitments with third parties. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
( FASB ) issued SFAS 123(R)  Share-Based
Payment . SFAS 123(R) revises SFAS No. 123
supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  and amends
SFAS No. 95,  Statement of Cash Flows .
SFAS 123(R) requires companies to expense the fair value of
employee stock options and other forms of stock-based
compensation over the employees  service period.
Compensation cost is measured at the fair value of the award at
the grant date and adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures and
the outcome of certain conditions. The fair value of an award is
not re-measured after its initial estimation on the grant date.
In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin SAB 107 ( SAB 107 ).
SAB 107 expresses views of the SEC regarding the
interaction between SFAS 123R and certain SEC rules and
regulations and provides the SEC s views regarding the
valuation of share-based payment arrangements for public
companies. We are required to adopt SFAS 123(R) and
SAB 107 as of January 1, 2006 and we expect these
adoptions will have a material impact on our results of
operations and earnings per share. We are evaluating the
requirements of SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107 and have not
yet determined the precise method of adoption or whether this
adoption will result in amounts that are similar to the current
pro forma disclosures under SFAS No. 123 as set forth
in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.

52

Table of Contents   

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections   a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement
No. 3,  ( SFAS 154 ). SFAS 154
changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of
a change in accounting principle and applies to all voluntary
changes in accounting principle. It also applies to changes
required by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance
that the pronouncement does not include specific transition
provisions. When a pronouncement includes specific transition
provisions, those provisions should be followed. APB No. 20
required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be
recognized by including in net income of the period of the
change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting
principle. This statement requires retrospective application to
prior period financial statements of changes in accounting
principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the
period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change.
The provisions of SFAS 154 are effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect this
statement to have a material impact on its financial condition
or results of operations

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We had no  off balance sheet arrangements  (as defined
in Item 303(a)(4) of
Regulation  S-K) 
during the year ended December 31, 2005.

Item 7A.  
     
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
    Risk.   

We generally maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents, and
short-term and long-term marketable securities in a variety of
securities which can include commercial paper, certificates of
deposit, money market funds and government and non-government
debt securities. The fair value of these available-for-sale
securities are subject to changes in market interest rates and
may fall in value if market interest rates increase. Our
investment portfolio includes only marketable securities with
active secondary or resale markets to help insure liquidity. We
have implemented policies regarding the amount and credit
ratings of investments. Due to the conservative nature of these
policies, we do not believe we have material exposure due to
market risk. We may not have the ability to hold our fixed
income investments until maturity, and therefore our future
operating results or cash flows could be affected if we are
required to sell investments during a period in which increases
in market interest rates have adversely affected the value of
our securities portfolio.

53

Table of Contents   

Item 8.  
     
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Boston Life
Sciences, Inc.

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
related consolidated statements of operations, of comprehensive
loss and stockholders  equity and of cash flows present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Boston Life Sciences, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the
 Company ) (a development stage enterprise) at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2005 and, cumulatively, for
the period from October 16, 1992 (date of inception) to
December 31, 2005 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management; our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been
prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going
concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements, the Company has suffered recurring losses
and negative cash flows from operations that raise substantial
doubt about the Company s ability to continue as a going
concern. Management s plans in regard to these matters are
also described in Note 1. The consolidated financial
statements do not include any adjustments that might result from
the outcome of this uncertainty.

/s/  Pricewaterhousecoopers
LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

March 31, 2006

54

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.

55

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.

56

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS AND
STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 

For the Period from inception (October 16, 1992) to
December 31, 2005 

57

Table of Contents   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.

58

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.

59

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1.  
     
     The Company and its Significant Accounting Policies  

Boston Life Sciences, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the
 Company ) is a development stage biotechnology
company engaged in the research and clinical development of
biopharmaceutical products for the diagnosis and treatment of
central nervous system, or CNS, diseases. Boston Life Sciences
( Old BLSI ), originally a privately held company
founded in 1992, merged with a publicly held company effective
June 15, 1995 (the  Merger ). The publicly held
company survived the Merger and changed its name to Boston Life
Sciences, Inc. However, all of the employees of the public
company ceased employment six months prior to the Merger, the
Company s facilities and equipment were sold, and all
directors resigned effective with the Merger, whereupon the
management and directors of Old BLSI assumed management of the
Company. During the period from inception through
December 31, 2005, the Company has devoted substantially
all of its efforts to business planning, raising financing,
furthering the research and development of its technologies, and
corporate partnering efforts. Accordingly, the Company is
considered to be in the development stage as defined in
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
No. 7,  Accounting and Reporting by Development Stage
Enterprises. 

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been
prepared on a basis which assumes that the Company will continue
as a going concern which contemplates the realization of assets
and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of
business. The uncertainty inherent in the need to raise
additional capital and the Company s recurring losses from
operations raise substantial doubt about the Company s
ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated
financial statements do not include any adjustments that might
result from the outcome of this uncertainty.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company has experienced total
net losses since inception of approximately $117,000,000. For
the foreseeable future, the Company expects to experience
continuing operating losses and negative cash flows from
operations as the Company s management executes its current
business plan. The cash, cash equivalents, and marketable
securities available at December 31, 2005 will not provide
sufficient working capital to meet the Company s
anticipated expenditures for the next twelve months. The Company
believes that the cash, cash equivalents, and marketable
securities available at December 31, 2005 and its ability
to control certain costs, including those related to clinical
trial programs, preclinical activities, and certain general and
administrative expenses will enable the Company to meet its
anticipated cash expenditures through June 2006. The Company
will therefore need to raise additional capital through one or
more of the following: collaboration, merger, acquisition or
other transaction with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology
companies, or through a debt financing or equity offering to
continue as a going concern. The Company is currently engaged in
collaboration, merger, acquisition and other fundraising
efforts. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company
will be successful in the collaboration, merger, acquisition and
other fundraising efforts or that additional funds will be
available on acceptable terms, if at all. In connection with the
common stock financing completed by the Company in March 2005,
the Company agreed with the purchasers in such financing (the
 March 2005 Investors ) that, subject to certain
exceptions, it would not issue any shares of its common stock at
a per share price less than $2.50 without the prior consent of
purchasers holding a majority of the shares issued in such
financing. The failure to receive the requisite waiver or
consent of the March 2005 Investors could have the effect of
delaying or preventing the consummation of a financing by the
Company. If the

60

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Company is unable to raise additional capital it may need to
reduce, cease or delay one or more of its research or
development programs and adjust its current business plan.

A summary of the Company s significant accounting policies
is as follows:

Basis of Consolidation   

The Company s consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of its six subsidiaries where a majority of the
operations are conducted. At December 31, 2005, all of the
subsidiaries were wholly-owned. In March 2003, the Company
purchased the remaining 10% of ProCell Pharmaceuticals from the
minority shareholder for 19,076 shares of common stock
which had a fair market value of approximately $90,000. All
significant intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities   

The Company considers all highly liquid marketable securities
purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to
be cash equivalents. The Company invests its cash equivalents
primarily in overnight repurchase agreements, money market
funds, and United States treasury and agency obligations. At
December 31, 2005 and periodically throughout the year, the
Company had cash balances at certain financial institutions in
excess of federally insured limits. However, the Company does
not believe that it is subject to any unusual credit risk beyond
the normal credit risk associated with commercial banking
relationships.

Marketable securities, which are classified as
available-for-sale, are recorded at fair value. Unrealized gains
or losses are not immediately recognized in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations but are reflected in the Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Loss and Stockholders  Equity
as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
until realized. Realized gains (losses) are determined based on
the specific identification method. If a decline in the fair
value of a security is considered to be other than temporary,
the investment is written down to a new cost basis and the
unrealized loss is removed from accumulated other comprehensive
loss and recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The Company evaluates whether a decline in fair value is other
than temporary based on factors such as the significance of the
decline, the duration of time for which the decline has been in
existence and the Company s ability and intent to hold the
security to maturity. To date, the Company has only recorded
temporary impairments related to marketable securities.
Marketable securities consist of United States agency bonds and
corporate debt obligations (Note 2). These marketable
securities are classified as current assets because they are
highly liquid and are available, as required, to meet working
capital and other operating requirements.

Financial Instruments   

The carrying amounts of the Company s financial
instruments, which include cash and cash equivalents, marketable
securities, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate
their fair values as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 due to
their short maturity.

Fixed Assets   

Fixed assets are stated at cost and depreciated using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
assets, ranging from three to five years. Leasehold improvements
are stated at cost and amortized using the straight-line method
over the term of the lease or the estimated useful lives of the
assets, whichever is shorter.

61

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Revenue Recognition and Concentration of Customers   

Since inception, the Company has entered into two separate
licensing and development agreements with certain pharmaceutical
companies related to the development of certain of its
technologies. Under the terms of the agreements, the
pharmaceutical companies were provided with a specified period
during which they had the right to evaluate the Company s
technology. The Company received cash payments from the
pharmaceutical companies and will also receive royalties on
eventual sales of any product derived from the development
effort. One agreement provided for periodic payments over a
three-year period which were recognized ratably over the term of
the agreement. The other agreement provided for an initial,
non-recurring payment which was recognized in full upon receipt
because the Company had no remaining performance obligations.

Research and Development Expenses and Concentration of
    Outside Researchers   

The Company has entered into licensing agreements with certain
institutions that provide the Company with the rights to certain
patents and technologies, and the right to market and distribute
any products developed. Obligations initially incurred to
acquire these rights are recognized and expensed on the date
that the Company acquires the rights due to the early stage of
the related technology.

The Company has entered into sponsored research agreements with
certain institutions for the research and development of its
licensed technologies. Payments made under these sponsored
research agreements are expensed ratably over the term of the
agreement or based on actual enrollment levels which the Company
believes corresponds with the manner in which the work is
performed.

The majority of the Company s technologies currently under
development were invented or discovered by researchers working
for Harvard University and its affiliated hospitals
( Harvard and its Affiliates ). The Company currently
conducts a substantial portion of its research and development
through Harvard and its Affiliates pursuant to sponsored
research agreements and is thus dependent upon a continuing
business relationship with Harvard and its Affiliates.

Research and development activities cease when developmental
work is substantially complete and when the Company believes
appropriate efficacy has been demonstrated.

Income Taxes   

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for income
taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities
are recorded for the expected future tax consequences of
temporary differences between the financial reporting and income
tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the
enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect
when the differences reverse. A valuation allowance is
established to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amount
expected to be realized.

Net Loss Per Share   

Basic and diluted net loss per share available to common
stockholders has been calculated by dividing net loss
attributable to common stockholders by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding during the period. All
potentially dilutive common shares have been excluded from the
calculation of weighted average common shares outstanding since
their inclusion would be antidilutive.

62

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The following common stock equivalents, on an as exercised or
converted basis, were excluded from the computation of diluted
net loss per common share because they were anti-dilutive. The
exercise of those common stock equivalents outstanding at
December 31, 2005 could potentially dilute earnings per
share in the future.

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   

The Company has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees  ( APB 25 ) and related
interpretations, in accounting for its employee stock-based
compensation plans and related equity issuances, rather than the
alternative fair value accounting method provided for under
SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  ( SFAS No. 123 ). Under
APB 25, when the exercise price of options granted under
these plans equals the market price of the underlying stock on
the date of grant, provided other criteria are met, no
compensation expense is recognized. All stock-based awards to
non-employees are accounted for in accordance with
SFAS No. 123 and Emerging Issues Task Force 96-18,
 Accounting for Equity Instruments that are Issued to Other
than Employees for Acquiring or in Conjunction with Selling,
Goods or Services. 

The following table illustrates the effect on net loss and net
loss per common share if the Company had applied the fair value
recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 to stock-based
employee compensation:

63

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of
the grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
following assumptions: dividend yield of zero percent; expected
volatility of 100%; risk-free interest rates, based on the date
of grant, ranging from 2% to 6%; and expected lives ranging from
three to five years.

Beneficial Conversion Feature   

The Company has, at certain times, issued preferred stock and
notes which were convertible into common stock at a discount
from the common stock market price at the date of issuance. The
discounted amount associated with such conversion rights
represents an incremental yield, i.e. a  beneficial
conversion feature . A beneficial conversion feature is
recorded when the consideration allocated to the convertible
security, divided by the number of common shares into which the
security converts, is below the fair value of the common stock
at the date of issuance of the convertible instrument.

A beneficial conversion feature associated with preferred stock
is recognized as a return to the preferred stockholders and
represents a non-cash charge in the determination of net loss
available to common stockholders. The beneficial conversion
feature is recognized in full immediately if there is no
redemption date for the preferred stock, or over the period of
issuance through the redemption date, if applicable. A
beneficial conversion feature associated with debentures, notes
or other debt instruments is recognized as discount to the debt
and is amortized as additional interest expense ratably over the
remaining term of the debt instrument.

Use of Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
disclosures of contingencies at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from
those estimates.

Segments   

The Company operates as one segment reporting to the chief
operating decision maker. All long-lived assets are maintained
in the United States of America.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements   

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
( FASB ) issued SFAS 123(R)  Share-Based
Payments  (SFAS 123(R) ). SFAS 123(R)
revises SFAS No. 123 supersedes APB 25 and amends
SFAS No. 95,  Statement of Cash Flows .
SFAS 123(R) requires companies to expense the fair value of
employee stock options and other forms of stock-based
compensation over the employees  service period.
Compensation cost is measured at the fair value of the award at
the grant date and adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures and
the outcome of certain conditions. The fair value of an award is
not re-measured after its initial estimation on the grant date.
In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin SAB 107 ( SAB 107 ).
SAB 107 expresses views of the SEC regarding the
interaction between SFAS 123(R) and certain SEC rules and
regulations and provides the SEC s views regarding the
valuation of share-based payment arrangements for public
companies. In December 2004, the FASB determined that the
effective date of SFAS 123(R) should be the first interim
or annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005.
In April 2005, the SEC amended the effective compliance date to
be the first annual reporting period beginning on or after
June 15, 2005. The Company is required to adopt
SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107 as of January 1, 2006 and
the Company expects these

64

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

adoptions will have a material impact on its results of
operations and earnings per share. The Company is evaluating the
requirements of SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107 and has not
yet determined the precise method of adoption or whether this
adoption will result in amounts that are similar to the current
pro forma disclosures under SFAS No. 123 as set forth.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections   a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement
No. 3,  ( SFAS 154 ). SFAS 154
changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of
a change in accounting principle and applies to all voluntary
changes in accounting principle. It also applies to changes
required by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance
that the pronouncement does not include specific transition
provisions. When a pronouncement includes specific transition
provisions, those provisions should be followed. APB No. 20
required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be
recognized by including in net income of the period of the
change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting
principle. This statement requires retrospective application to
prior period financial statements of changes in accounting
principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the
period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change.
The provisions of SFAS 154 are effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not
expect this statement to have a material impact on its financial
condition or results of operations.

Risks and Uncertainties   

The Company is subject to risks and uncertainties common to the
biotechnology industry. Such risks and uncertainties include,
but are not limited to: (i) results from current and
planned clinical trials, (ii) scientific data collected on
the Company s technologies currently in preclinical
research and development, (iii) decisions made by the FDA
or other regulatory bodies with respect to the initiation of
human clinical trials, (iv) decisions made by the FDA or
other regulatory bodies with respect to approval and commercial
sale of any of the Company s proposed products,
(v) the commercial acceptance of any products approved for
sale and the ability of the Company to manufacture, distribute
and sell for a profit any products approved for sale,
(vi) the Company s ability to obtain the necessary
patents and proprietary rights to effectively protect its
technologies, (vii) the outcome of any collaborations or
alliances entered into by the Company in the future with
pharmaceutical or other biotechnology companies,
(viii) dependence on key personnel, (ix) maintaining
NASDAQ listing requirements (x) competition with better
capitalized companies and (xi) ability to raise additional
funds.

2.  
     
     Marketable securities  

Marketable securities consist of the following at
December 31:

65

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Marketable securities by contractual maturity at
December 31, 2005 are as follows:

Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because
the issuers of these securities may have the right to prepay
obligations without penalty. Gross unrealized gains and (losses)
at December 31, 2005 totaled $5 and $(12,398),
respectively. Gross unrealized gains and (losses) at
December 31, 2004 totaled $0 and $(4,617), respectively.
Net realized (losses) gains totaled $(3,784), $(20,649) and
$114,577 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and are included
in investment income in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.

3.  
     
     Fixed Assets  

Fixed assets consist of the following at December 31:

Amortization and depreciation expense on fixed assets for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was
approximately $213,000, $218,000 and $224,000, respectively, and
$1,163,000 for the period from inception (October  16,
1992) through December 31, 2005.

4.  
     
     Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses  

Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following
at December 31:

66

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

5.  
     
     Notes Payable and Debt  

10% Convertible Senior Secured Promissory
    Notes   

In July 2002, the Company entered into agreements pursuant to
which the Company issued $4.0 million in principal amount
of 10% Convertible Senior Secured Promissory Notes (the
 Notes ) to Ingalls & Snyder Value Partners,
L.P. ( ISVP ) in a private placement with an original
conversion price of $10.80 per share. Warrants to purchase
a total of 100,000 shares of the Company s common
stock (the  ISVP Warrant ) at $10.80 per share
were also issued to ISVP.

The net proceeds of approximately $3,885,000 were allocated
between the warrants (approximately $311,000) and the Notes
(approximately $3,574,000) based on their relative fair values.
The value of the warrants was calculated using the Black-Scholes
pricing model with the following assumptions: dividend yield of
zero percent; expected volatility of 100%; risk free interest
rate of approximately 5% and a term of five years. Based on the
fair value of the Notes, they bore an effective interest rate of
12.6%. The initial carrying value of the Notes was being
accreted ratably, over the term of the Notes, to the $4,000,000
amount due at maturity. Debt issuance costs totaling $105,590
were capitalized and amortized over the life of the Notes.
Interest expense totaled $43,900, $1,010,536 and $755,850 in
2005, 2004 and 2003, and included $0, $539,371 and $292,090 in
discount accretion and $0, $55,038 and $35,196 in debt issuance
cost amortization, respectively.

The Notes were due in June 2005 and bore interest at
10% per annum, payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1. The Company could elect to pay interest on the Notes
in either cash or, subject to certain limitations, additional
notes on the same terms. The Notes could be converted into the
Company s common stock at the option of the holder, subject
to anti-dilution adjustments. Among other adjustments, unless
the investor consented otherwise, if the Company issued equity
securities for consideration per share of common stock less than
the then applicable conversion price of the Notes, the
conversion price of the Notes would be reduced to equal that
lower price. The Notes were secured by a first priority security
interest and continuing lien on all current and after acquired
property of the Company. The Company generally could have
obtained a release of the security interest by providing
alternative collateral in the form of either cash or a bank
letter of credit. Until the Company provided alternative
collateral or less than $500,000 principal amount of Notes
remained outstanding, the agreements also prohibited the
Company, among other things, from entering into any merger,
consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of its assets,
incurring additional indebtedness, encumbering its assets with
any liens and redeeming or paying cash dividends on any of its
capital stock. The Company was permitted to grant licenses or
sublicenses of its intellectual property to third parties in the
ordinary course of its business free from the security interest,
but the holders of the Notes would have received a first
priority security interest and continuing lien on all amounts
owing to the Company in respect of any such license or
sublicense. The agreements also contained certain events of
default, including any change of control of the Company and
breach by the Company of its representations, warranties and
covenants contained in the agreements. If any event of default
occurred, the Company s obligations under the Notes could
have been accelerated and become immediately due and payable in
full.

As a condition of the Company s December 2003 private
placement of preferred stock and warrants, the Company agreed to
exercise its right to obtain a release of the security interest
and continuing lien on its property that secured the outstanding
Notes by providing alternative collateral in the form of cash or
a standby
 letter-of -credit in the
amount of all remaining principal and interest payments on the
Notes through maturity. At December 31, 2003, the Company
set aside sufficient funds in a segregated account to satisfy
its then remaining obligations under the Notes in order to
comply with its covenant to the December 2003 private placement
investors. These funds were classified as restricted cash and
marketable securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. On
June 15, 2004, the Company secured a release of the

67

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

lien on its property by providing alternative collateral in the
form of an irrevocable standby letter of credit in the amount of
$4,785,550.

In connection with the March 2003 private placement (see
Note 7), the conversion price of the Company s Notes
was reduced to $5.00 per share in accordance with the
anti-dilution provisions of the Notes. The reduction in the
conversion price created a beneficial conversion feature, which
was recognized as a decrease in the carrying value of the Notes
and an increase in additional paid in capital of approximately
$289,000. The value of the beneficial conversion feature was
recognized as interest expense ratably over the remaining life
of the Notes.

In December 2002, the Company issued $143,333 in principal
amount of Notes to ISVP for interest accrued through
December 1, 2002. In March 2003, the conversion price of
the $143,333 Note was reset from $10.00 to $5.00 in connection
with the private placement of common stock at $5.00 (see
Note 7). The reduction in the conversion price created a
beneficial conversion feature of approximately $79,000, which
was recognized as a decrease in the carrying value of the Notes
and an increase in additional paid in capital. The value of the
beneficial conversion feature was recognized as interest expense
ratably over the remaining life of the Notes. In June 2003, the
Company issued $207,167 in principal amount of Notes to ISVP for
interest accrued through June 1, 2003. The $207,167 Note
was issued with a conversion price of $5.00 which was below the
market price of the common stock at the date of issuance. This
resulted in a beneficial conversion feature of approximately
$190,000, which was recognized as a decrease in the carrying
value of the Notes and an increase in additional paid in
capital. The value of the beneficial conversion feature was
recognized as interest expense ratably over the remaining life
of the Notes. In December 2003 and June 2004, the Company
elected to make payments of $217,525 in cash to ISVP for
interest due on December 1, 2003 and June 1, 2004.

In November 2004, the Company prepaid the outstanding principal
plus accrued interest on the Notes in the amount of $4,543,856
and obtained a release from the letter of credit collateralizing
the Notes. The payment was made with funds previously set aside
in a restricted account to collateralize the Notes. As part of
this transaction, the Company agreed to lower the exercise price
of the ISVP Warrant from $10.80 to $5.00 per share. The
Company recorded a charge of approximately $42,000, as
determined under the Black Scholes pricing model, in 2004 which
is included in Interest Expense in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations. Upon the repayment of the Notes, the Company wrote
off to interest expense approximately $221,000 in unamortized
beneficial conversion features and approximately $24,000 in
unamortized debt issuance costs.

In November 2002, the Company entered into a Consent to Transfer
and Warrant Amendment (the  Warrant Amendment ) with
Ingalls & Snyder, L.L.C. ( I ), Robert
L. Gipson ( Gipson ), Nikolaos D. Monoyios
( Monoyios ) and ISVP. Pursuant to the Agreement, the
Company consented to the transfer of outstanding warrants to
purchase 364,025 shares of the Company s common
stock (the  Warrants ) by Brown Simpson
Partners I, Ltd. to Gipson and Monoyios (the  Gipson
and Monoyios Warrants ). Effective upon the transfer, the
terms of the Warrants were amended, among other things, to
reduce the exercise price from $10.75 per share to
$10.00 per share, to extend the expiration date from
September 22, 2004 to December 31, 2006 and to
eliminate the reset and anti-dilution provisions. The Company
also agreed that the conversion price of the Notes issued to
ISVP would be reduced from $10.80 per share to
$10.00 per share. In connection with these transactions,
the Company recorded a charge of approximately $610,000, as
determined under the Black Scholes pricing model (with the
following assumptions: dividend yield of zero percent; expected
volatility of 100%; risk free interest rate of approximately 5%
and warrant terms ranging from approximately 2 to 4 years),
in 2002. In addition, the existing registration rights
applicable to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise
of the Warrants

68

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

were terminated, and the Company granted Gipson and Monoyios new
registration rights with respect to such shares equivalent to
those granted to ISVP with respect to the Notes.

In February 2005, in consideration of the immediate exercise of
the warrants in cash, the Company agreed to lower the exercise
price of the ISVP Warrant from $5.00 to $2.25 per share and
the Gipson and Monoyios Warrants from $10.00 to $2.25. The
Company received approximately $1,044,000 in connection with the
exercise of the ISVP Warrant and the Gipson and Monoyios
Warrants. The Company recorded a charge of approximately $44,000
to interest expense during the three months ended March 31,
2005 in connection with the changes to the warrants.

6.  
     
     Relocation and Sublease  

In September 2005, the Company relocated its headquarters to
office space located in Hopkinton, Massachusetts. In addition,
the Company amended its Lease Agreement (the  Lease
Amendment ), dated as of January 28, 2002 by and
between the Company and Brentwood Properties, Inc. (the
 Landlord ) relating to the Company s former
principal executive offices (the  Premises ) located
on the fourth and fifth floors of a building in Boston,
Massachusetts (the  Lease Agreement ). Pursuant to the
terms of the Lease Amendment, the Landlord consented to, among
other things, the Small Army Sublease and Dell Sublease (each as
defined below), each of which runs through the term of the Lease
Agreement. In consideration for the Landlord s consent, the
Company agreed to increase its security deposit provided for
under the Lease Agreement from $250,000 to $388,600 subject to
periodic reduction pursuant to a predetermined formula.

In September 2005, the Company entered into a Sublease Agreement
(the  Small Army Sublease ) with Small Army, Inc., as
subtenant ( Small Army ), to sublease approximately
3,300 rentable square feet on the fourth floor of the
Premises. The initial term of the Small Army Sublease is eighty
months beginning on October 1, 2005. Pursuant to the terms
of the Small Army Sublease, Small Army has agreed to pay:
(i) $8,800 in base rent per month from March 1, 2006
through May 30, 2009 and (ii) $9,625 in base rent per
month for the period from June 1, 2009 through May 30,
2012. Small Army has agreed to pay the Company a proportionate
share of the Company s additional obligations under the
Lease Agreement resulting from any future increases in certain
costs to operate the Premises, including insurance and real
estate taxes.

In September 2005, the Company entered a Sublease Agreement (the
 Dell Sublease ) with Dell Mitchell Architects, Inc.,
as subtenant ( Dell ), to sublease approximately
3,300 rentable square feet on the fifth floor of the
Premises. The initial term of the Dell Sublease is eighty-one
months beginning on September 1, 2005. Pursuant to the
terms of the Dell Sublease, Dell has agreed to pay:
(i) $8,800 in base rent per month from March 16, 2006
through May 30, 2009 and (ii) $9,625 in base rent per
month for the period from June 1, 2009 through May 30,
2012. Dell has agreed to pay the Company a proportionate share
of the Company s additional obligations under the Lease
Agreement resulting from any future increases in certain costs
to operate the Premises, including insurance and real estate
taxes.

As a result of the Company s relocation, an expense was
recorded in accordance with SFAS 146,  Accounting for
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, 
( SFAS 146 ). SFAS 146 requires that a
liability be recorded for a cost associated with an exit or
disposal activity at its fair value in the period in which the
liability is incurred. The liability recorded for the Lease
Amendment was calculated using discounted estimated cash flows
described above for the Small Army Sublease and the Dell
Sublease. As prescribed by SFAS 146, an estimated
credit-adjusted risk-free rate of 15% was used to discount the
estimated cash flows. The expense and accrual recorded in
accordance with SFAS 146 requires the Company to make
significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and
assumptions will be evaluated and adjusted as appropriate on at
least a quarterly basis for changes in circumstances. It

69

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

is reasonably possible that such estimates could change in the
future resulting in additional adjustments, and the effect of
any such adjustments could be material.

The activity related to the lease accrual at December 31,
2005, is as follows:

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
recorded approximately $332,000 in general and administrative
expenses related to the net carrying costs of the Lease
Amendment. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the
Company recorded approximately $19,000 of expense related to the
imputed cost of the lease expense accrual included in general
and administrative expenses on the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Operations.

7.  
     
     Stockholders  Equity  

Reverse Split   

On February 4, 2005, the Company s stockholders
authorized the Company s Board of Directors to effect a
reverse stock split of its common stock at a ratio of
one-for-five. The Company has retroactively applied the reverse
split to all the share and per share amounts for all periods
presented in these financial statements. In addition, the
reverse stock split resulted in a reclassification from common
stock to additional paid-in capital to reflect the adjusted
share amount as the par value of the Company s common stock
remained at $0.01.

Common Stock   

In March 2003, the Company completed a private placement of
2,000,000 shares of its common stock which raised
approximately $10,000,000 in gross proceeds. The investors in
the private placement included Gipson, Thomas O.
Boucher, Jr. ( Boucher ) and other affiliates of
I&S.

In March 2005, the Company completed a private placement of
2,000,000 shares of its common stock which raised
approximately $5,000,000 in gross proceeds. The investors in the
private placement included Gipson, Boucher and other affiliates
of I&S. In connection with the private placement completed
by the Company in March 2005, the Company agreed with the March
2005 Investors that, subject to certain exceptions, it would not
issue any shares of its common stock at a per share price less
than $2.50 without the prior consent of purchasers holding a
majority of the shares issued in such financing. In connection
with the private placement, the Company also agreed to file a
registration statement relating to the resale of the common
stock sold in the private placement upon request of the
investors.

In September 2005, the Company completed a private placement of
6,000,000 shares of its common stock which raised
approximately $12,780,000 in gross proceeds. The investors in
the private placement included Gipson, Boucher and other
affiliates of I&S. In connection with the private placement,
the Company agreed to file a registration statement relating to
the resale of the common stock sold in the private placement
upon request of the investors. The Company obtained the waiver
of a requisite percentage of the March 2005 Investors to issue
shares in the private placement at a per share price less than
$2.50.

70

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Preferred Stock   

The Company has authorized 1,000,000 shares of preferred
stock of which 25,000 shares have been designated as
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, 500,000 shares
have been designated as Series D Convertible Preferred
Stock, and 800 shares have been designated as Series E
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (the  Series E
Stock ). The remaining authorized shares have not been
designated.

Series A Preferred Stock  

In connection with the 1996 private placement of Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock, the Company granted options to
acquire 23.991 units to the placement agent. Each unit
consists of 1,000 shares of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase 500 shares of
common stock at a unit exercise price of $110,000. Each share of
the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible
into shares of common stock pursuant to a ratio of
3.507542 shares of common stock for each share of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. There were
22.607 unit options outstanding at December 31, 2005.
In February 2006, all the unit options expired.

Series E Preferred Stock  

On December 9, 2003, the Company completed a private
placement with a group of institutional and private investors.
In connection with the financing, the Company issued
800 shares of Series E Stock, accompanied by warrants
to purchase 576,000 shares of common stock. The
purchase price of each share of Series E Stock was $10,000.
Each share of Series E Stock was initially convertible into
1,600 shares of common stock based on an initial conversion
price of $6.25 per share and was accompanied by a warrant
to purchase 720 shares of common stock at an initial
exercise price of $7.75 per share. The warrants will expire
on December 9, 2007.

Burnham Hill Partners, a division of Pali Capital, Inc.
( Burnham Hill ), acted as placement agent with
respect to the private placement and received a cash fee and a
warrant to purchase 128,000 shares of common stock at
an initial exercise price of $7.45 per share (the
 Placement Agent Warrant ). Burnham Hill will also
receive a cash fee equal to 4% of the cash received by the
Company upon the exercise of the investor warrants. In October
2005, the Company entered into a consulting agreement with
Burnham Hill for financial advisory services through
December 31, 2005 pursuant to which Burnham Hill received
$50,000 and 42,667 shares of unregistered common stock.
Under the terms of the consulting agreement, Burnham Hill agreed
to accept the 42,667 shares of unregistered common stock as
settlement of the Placement Agent Warrant.

The net proceeds of approximately $7,040,000 were allocated
between the warrants (approximately $2,049,000) and the
Series E Stock (approximately $4,991,000) based on their
relative fair values. The value of the warrants was calculated
using the Black-Scholes pricing model with the following
assumptions: dividend yield of zero percent; expected volatility
of 100%; risk free interest rate of approximately 3% percent and
a term of four years for the investor warrants and five years
for the placement agent warrants. In connection with the
issuance of Series E Stock, the Company recorded a
beneficial conversion feature of $2,696,658. A beneficial
conversion feature is recorded when the consideration allocated
to the convertible security, divided by the number of common
shares into which the security converts, is below the fair value
of the common stock at the date of issuance of the convertible
instrument. The amount of the beneficial conversion feature was
immediately accreted and the accretion resulted in a deemed
dividend as the preferred stock does not have a redemption term.
The value of the beneficial conversion feature has been
reflected as an adjustment to the net loss attributable to
common stockholders on the Company s Statement of
Operations.

71

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The Series E Stock was initially convertible into common
stock at $6.25 per share, subject to a weighted average
anti-dilution adjustment if the Company issued equity securities
in the future at a lower price. The holders of Series E
Stock were entitled to receive a cumulative dividend of
4% per annum (increasing to 8% effective June 9,
2005), payable beginning on October 31, 2004 and on each
anniversary thereof. The dividend was payable in cash, but the
Company could have elected to pay the dividend in shares of
common stock under specified circumstances. Upon conversion,
accrued dividends would be paid in common stock based on the
then conversion price of the Series E Stock. During 2004,
the Company issued 381,920 shares of common stock in
connection with the conversion of 238.70 shares of
Series E Stock and 4,756 shares of common stock in
connection with the dividend payable upon conversion of the
Series E Stock. The Company paid $314,987 and $201,760 in
cash dividends to the holders of outstanding Series E Stock
effective February 4, 2005 and October 31, 2004,
respectively.

The Series E Stock generally voted together with the common
stock as one class. Each holder of Series E Stock generally
was entitled to the number of votes equal to the number of
shares of common stock into which its shares of Series E
Stock could be converted on the record date for the vote
assuming for such purpose a conversion price of $7.40 per
share.

Under the terms of the private placement, the Company agreed to
exercise its right to obtain a release of the security interest
and continuing lien on its assets that secured the Notes held by
ISVP by providing alternative collateral in the form of cash or
a standby
 letter-of -credit in the
amount of all remaining principal and interest payments on the
Notes through maturity as more fully described in Note 5.

In February 2005, the Company entered into agreements with the
holders of 557.30 shares of Series E stock (the
 Holders ), whereby the Holders agreed to convert
their outstanding shares of Series E Stock and in return
the Company agreed to pay a dividend of $564.44 per share
held by the Holders and lower the exercise price of the warrants
to purchase common stock held by the Holders from $7.71 to
$0.05. The Company recorded a charge of approximately $656,000,
as determined under the Black Scholes pricing model (with the
following assumptions: dividend yield of zero percent; expected
volatility of 100%; risk free interest rate of approximately 3%
and warrant term of approximately 3 years), to net loss
attributable to common stockholders in the first quarter of 2005
in connection with this repricing. The Holders were also given
the right to invest new funds amounting to up to 33% in the next
$16,900,000 raised by the Company in private placements effected
by the Company pursuant to an exemption from registration under
the Securities Act. Following completion of the Company s
$5,000,000 private placement in March 2005 and the $12,780,000
private placement in September 2005, this preemptive right was
terminated. On February 4, 2005, the Company s
stockholders approved an amendment to the Certificate of
Designations, Rights and Preferences of the Series E Stock,
providing for the mandatory conversion of all outstanding shares
of Series E Stock, upon the affirmative vote of 75% of the
outstanding shares of Series E Stock. In February 2005, the
requisite vote of the Holders was obtained and the Company
issued 900,646 shares of common stock in connection with
the conversion of the 561.3 outstanding shares of the
Series E Stock.

Stock Options and Warrants   

Stock Option Plans  

The Company has two stock option plans under which it can issue
both nonqualified and incentive stock options to employees,
officers, consultants and scientific advisors of the Company. At
December 31, 2005, the 1998 Omnibus Plan (the  1998
Plan ) provided for the issuance of options to purchase up
to 1,220,000 shares of the Company s common stock
through April 2008. At December 31, 2005, the 2005 Stock
Incentive Plan (the  2005 Plan ) provided for the
issuance of options, restricted stock, restricted stock units,
stock appreciation rights or other stock-based awards to
purchase 1,500,000 shares of the

72

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Company s common stock. The 2005 Plan contains a provision
which allows for an annual increase in the number of shares
available for issuance under the 2005 Plan on the first day of
each of the Company s fiscal years during the period
beginning in fiscal year 2006 and ending on the second day of
fiscal year 2014. The annual increase in the number of shares
shall be equal to the lowest of 400,000 shares; 4% of the
Company s outstanding shares on the first day of the fiscal
year; and an amount determined by the Board of Directors. On
January 2, 2006, the 2005 Plan was increased by
400,000 shares.

The Company also has outstanding stock options in two other
stock option plans, the Amended and Restated Omnibus Stock
Option Plan and the Amended and Restated 1990 Non-Employee
Directors  Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan. Both of these
plans have expired and no future issuance of awards is
permissible.

The Company s Board of Directors determines the term,
vesting provisions, price, and number of shares for each option
that is granted. The term of each option cannot exceed ten years.

In March 2005, the Company s Board of Directors approved
the cancellation of options to purchase an aggregate of
483,787 shares of the Company s common stock and the
regrant of options to purchase an aggregate of
454,760 shares of the Company s common stock. The per
share exercise prices of the cancelled options ranged from $3.75
to $39.06, with a weighted average exercise price of $11.89. The
aggregate number of stock options outstanding after such
cancellation and regrant of options was reduced by approximately
6%. These cancellations and regrants were effected under the
Amended and Restated Omnibus Stock Option Plan and the 1998
Omnibus Stock Option Plan, each of which expressly permitted
option exchanges. Each of the regranted options contains the
following terms: (i) an exercise price equal to the fair
market value on the grant date which was the last sale price on
March 11, 2005, or $2.31 per share; (ii) a
ten-year duration; and (iii) 33% vesting on the date of
grant with the remaining 67% vesting thereafter in 36 equal
monthly installments. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R)
(see Note 1), the Company has recorded a charge each
quarter equal to the intrinsic value (difference between the
Company s stock price and exercise price) of the 454,760
options which are deemed to have been repriced until the earlier
of (i) the exercise of these options or (ii) the
expiration or cancellation of these options. Beginning in fiscal
2006 and in accordance with SFAS 123(R), the Company will
expense the fair value of the unvested employee stock options
over the employee service period.

73

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Stock Options  

A summary of the Company s outstanding stock options as of
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 and changes during the
years ending on those dates is presented below.

The following table summarizes information about stock options
outstanding at December 31, 2005:

As of December 31, 2005, 1,359,493 shares are
available for grant under the Company s option plans.

Warrants  

The Company issued 0, 2,000 and 2,000 warrants to purchase
common stock to certain consultants and business advisors as
partial compensation for their services during the years ending
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The
Company recorded non-cash charges of $0, $5,220 and $41,841

74

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

representing the fair value of those warrants during 2005, 2004,
and 2003, respectively. In addition, warrants have been issued
in connection with certain financing transactions (Notes 5
and 7).

As of December 31, 2005, warrants outstanding to purchase
common stock were as follows:

Each warrant is exercisable into one share of common stock.
During 2005, 641,915 warrants were exercised. At
December 31, 2005, the Company has reserved
4,839,760 shares of common stock to meet its option and
warrant obligations.

Rights Agreement  

On September 11, 2001, the Company entered into a Rights
Agreement (the  Rights Plan ) dated as of
September 11, 2001, with Continental Stock
Transfer & Trust Company, as rights agent (the
 Rights Agent ), and declared a dividend of one right
(a  Right ) to purchase from the Company
one-thousandth of a share of its Series D Preferred Stock
at an exercise price of $25 for each outstanding share of the
Company s common stock at the close of business on
September 13, 2001. The Rights will expire on
September 11, 2011.

In general, the Rights will be exercisable only if a person or
group acquires 15% or more of the Company s common stock or
announces a tender offer, the consummation of which would result
in ownership by a person or group of 15% or more of the
Company s common stock. If, after the Rights become
exercisable, the Company is acquired in a merger or other
business combination transaction, or sells 25% or more of its
assets or earning power, each unexercised Right will entitle its
holder to purchase, at the Right s then-current exercise
price, a number of the acquiring company s common shares
having a market value of two times the Right s exercise
price. At any time after any person or group has acquired
beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the Company s common
stock, the Board, in its sole discretion, may exchange all or
part of the then outstanding and exercisable Rights for shares
of the Company s common stock at an exchange ratio of one
share of common stock per Right.

In November 2001, the Company and the Rights Agent amended the
Rights Plan to provide that Rights Plan will be governed by the
laws of the State of Delaware.

75

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

In November 2002, the Company and the Rights Agent amended the
Rights Plan to provide that, for purposes of any calculation
under the Rights Plan of the percentage of outstanding shares of
the Company s common stock beneficially owned by a person,
any shares of the Company s common stock such person
beneficially owns that are not outstanding (such as shares
underlying options, warrants, rights or convertible securities)
shall be deemed to be outstanding. The amendment also exempted
each of I&S, ISVP and Gipson (the  Ingalls
Parties ) from being an  Acquiring Person  under
the Rights Plan so long as such persons, collectively, together
with all affiliates of such persons, shall beneficially own less
than 20% of the shares of the Company s common stock then
outstanding.

On March 12, 2003, the Company and the Rights Agent amended
the Rights Plan to provide that prior to June 1, 2005, the
Ingalls Parties and their affiliates will be deemed not to
beneficially own certain convertible notes and warrants of the
Company and any common stock issued or issuable upon their
conversion or exercise for purposes of determining whether such
person is an  Exempt Person  under the Rights Plan.

On December 23, 2003, the Company and the Rights Agent
amended the Rights Plan to add Boucher to the list of persons
included in the definition of Ingalls Parties who are exempt
from being an  Acquiring Person  so long as such
persons, collectively, together with all affiliates of such
persons, shall beneficially own less than 20% of the shares of
the Company s common stock then outstanding. In addition,
the amendment provides that a person shall not be deemed to
beneficially own securities held by another person solely by
reason of an agreement, arrangement or understanding among such
persons to vote such securities, if such agreement, arrangement
or understanding is for the purpose of (i) soliciting
revocable proxies or consents to elect or remove directors of
the Company pursuant to a proxy or consent solicitation made or
to be made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable
proxy solicitation rules and regulations promulgated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and/or
(ii) nominating one or more individuals (or being
nominated) for election to the Company s Board of Directors
or serving as a director of the Company.

On March 14, 2005, the Company and the Rights Agent amended
the Rights Plan to amend the definition of Exempt Person to
include all purchasers of shares of the Company s common
stock in connection with the Company s private placement
completed in March 2005.

8.  
     
     Income Taxes  

Income tax provision (benefit) consists of the following for the
years ended December 31:

76

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Deferred tax assets consist of the following at December 31:

The Company has provided a full valuation allowance for its
deferred tax assets since it is more likely than not that the
future benefits will not be realized. In the event the Company
achieves profitability, these deferred tax assets could be
available to offset future income tax liabilities and expense.

A reconciliation between the amount of reported tax benefit and
the amount computed using the U.S. federal statutory rate
of 35% for the year ended December 31 is as follows:

At December 31, 2005, the Company has federal net operating
loss ( NOL ) and research and development credit
carryforwards of approximately $24,231,000 and $2,039,000
respectively, expiring at various dates through 2025. In fiscal
year 1995 and in fiscal year 2005, the Company experienced a
change in ownership as defined by Section 382 of the
Internal Revenue Code. In general, an ownership change, as
defined by Section 382, results from transactions
increasing the ownership of certain shareholders or public
groups in the stock of a corporation by more than
50 percentage points over a three-year period. Since the
Company s formation, it has raised capital through the
issuance of capital stock on several occasions which, combined
with shareholders  subsequent disposition of those shares,
has resulted in two changes of control, as defined by
Section 382. As a result of the most recent ownership
change, utilization of the Company s NOLs is subject to an
annual limitation under Section 382 determined by
multiplying the value of our stock at the time of the ownership
change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate resulting in
an annual limitation amount of approximately $1,000,000. Any
unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years, and
the amount of the limitation may, under certain circumstances,
be subject to adjustment if the fair value of the Company s
net assets are determined to be below or in excess

77

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

of the tax basis of such assets at the time of the ownership
change, and such unrealized loss or gain is recognized during
the five-year period after the ownership change.

Subsequent ownership changes, as defined in Section 382,
could further limit the amount of net operating loss
carryforwards and research and development credits that can be
utilized annually to offset future taxable income.

9.  
     
     Commitments and Contingencies  

The Company recognizes and discloses commitments when it enters
into executed contractual obligations with other parties. The
Company accrues contingent liabilities when it is probable that
future expenditures will be made and such expenditures can be
reasonably estimated.

Commitments  

Research and development commitments consist of contractual
obligations with third parties. The Company leases office space
and laboratory space under noncancelable operating leases. The
Company s current corporate office lease expires in 2008
and provides for a three-year renewal option. The Company has
subleased its former corporate office lease which expires in
2012 (Note 6). The Company also leases laboratory space
that expires in May 2006. As of December 31, 2005,
approximate future minimum commitments under the above leases
and other contractual obligations are as follows:

Total rent expense under noncancelable operating leases was
approximately $331,000, $345,000 and $341,000 for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively, and
approximately $2,359,000 for the period from inception
(October 16, 1992) through December 31, 2005.

License Agreements   

Since inception, the Company has paid Harvard and its Affiliates
under the terms of its current license agreements (the
 License Agreements ) approximately $800,000 in
initial licensing fees and milestone payments. The License
Agreements obligate the Company to pay up to an aggregate of
$4,220,000 in milestone payments in the future. These future
milestone payments are generally payable only upon the
completion of later stage clinical trials and the filing of an
NDA or similar application seeking product approval. Most of
these contingent milestone payments are associated with
technologies that are presently in early stage development. The
Company is also required to pay certain fees for annual license
maintenance and
 continuation-in -part
patent applications.

78

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Guarantor Arrangements   

As permitted under Delaware law, the Company has entered into
agreements whereby the Company indemnifies its executive
officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while
the officer or director is, or was serving, at the
Company s request in such capacity. The term of the
indemnification period is for the officer s or
director s lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future
payments the Company could be required to make under these
indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, the Company
has a director and officer insurance policy that limits the
Company s exposure and enables the Company to recover a
portion of any future amounts paid. As a result of the
Company s insurance policy coverage, the Company believes
the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements is
minimal.

The Company enters into arrangements with certain service
providers to perform research, development, and clinical
services for the Company. Under the terms of these arrangements,
such service providers may use the Company s technologies
in performing their services. The Company enters into standard
indemnification agreements with those service providers, whereby
the Company indemnifies them for any liability associated with
their use of the Company s technologies. The maximum
potential amount of future payments the Company would be
required to make under these indemnification agreements is
unlimited; however, the Company has product liability and
general liability policies that enable the Company to recover a
portion of any amounts paid. As a result of the Company s
insurance policy coverage, the Company believes the estimated
fair value of these indemnification agreements is minimal.

Settlement and Standstill Agreement   

On June 15, 2004, the Company entered into a settlement and
standstill agreement (the  Settlement Agreement ) with
Gipson, Boucher, I&S and ISVP (the  Investor
Group ). Under the Settlement Agreement, the Company
reconstituted its Board of Directors to consist of Marc E.
Lanser, Robert Langer, John T. Preston, Gipson and Michael
J. Mullen. S. David Hillson retired as Chairman of the Board and
as a director and consultant of the Company.

The Investor Group agreed not to seek the removal of any of the
directors prior to March 31, 2005 and entered into a mutual
release of claims with the Company, Mr. Hillson and
Dr. Lanser. As contemplated by the Settlement Agreement,
the Company obtained a release of the security interest on its
property collateralizing its Notes held by ISVP by providing an
irrevocable standby letter of credit in the amount of $4,785,550
to collateralize the Notes. The Company also paid $300,000 to
I&S as reimbursement for certain expenses as part of the
settlement. The $300,000 payment is included in General and
Administrative Expenses during the second quarter of 2004.

In May 2004, the Company also entered into a separation
agreement with Mr. Hillson regarding his retirement (the
 Hillson Agreement ). The Hillson Agreement requires
that Mr. Hillson continue to satisfy his obligations under
the non-competition, confidentiality, invention assignment and
non-solicitation provisions of his previous agreement with the
Company and that he release the Company from claims related to
his former employment with the Company and his position on the
Board of Directors. The Hillson Agreement provided for a lump
sum payment of $187,500, which represented the balance of
consulting fees due to Mr. Hillson under his previous
agreement with the Company, and a lump sum payment of $90,000 in
recognition of Mr. Hillson s contributions to the
Company and loss of certain other benefits under his previous
agreement with the Company. The Company recorded a charge of
$277,500 in the second quarter of 2004 related to these
payments. Pursuant to the terms of the Hillson Agreement, the
Company granted options to Mr. Hillson to
purchase 40,000 shares of common stock at an exercise
price of $5.00 per share and cancelled options previously
granted to Mr. Hillson to purchase 80,000 shares
of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $18.13 per
share to $39.06 per share. The Hillson Agreement further
provided that all of Mr. Hillson s remaining stock
options fully vest. FASB

79

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Interpretation No. 44,  Accounting for Certain
Transactions involving Stock Compensation  requires the
Company to employ variable accounting when there is both an
option issuance and an option cancellation within a six month
period. In addition to the 40,000 options issued in June,
Mr. Hillson was awarded options in March 2004 to
purchase 39,000 shares of common stock at an exercise
price of $6.35 in connection with his services as a director of
the Company. Of the options awarded in March 2004, 14,000 were
attributed to Mr. Hillson s previous consulting agreement,
and accordingly, the Company recorded a charge of approximately
$56,000 representing the fair value of these options as
determined using the Black-Scholes pricing model.

In connection with his retirement, Mr. Hillson also made a
written request under the terms of his indemnity agreement with
the Company that the Company create an indemnity trust for his
benefit and fund the trust in the amount of $100,000. In
response to the request, on June 15, 2004, the Company
entered into a directors and officers indemnity trust agreement
with Mr. Hillson and Boston Private Bank & Trust
Company, as trustee (the  Indemnity
Trust Agreement ), and funded the trust with $100,000.
Mr. Hillson may, from time to time, request withdrawals of
funds from the trust in the event that he becomes entitled to
receive indemnification payments or advances from the Company.
Any amounts not disbursed from the indemnity trust will become
unrestricted at such time as the Company and Mr. Hillson
agree that the indemnity trust is no longer required. FASB
Interpretation No. 45,  Guarantor s Accounting
and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others 
( FIN 45 ) requires that upon issuance of a
guarantee, the guarantor must recognize a liability for the fair
value of the obligation it assumes under that guarantee. As
required under the provisions of FIN 45, the Company has
evaluated its obligations under the Indemnity
Trust Agreement and has determined that the fair value of
this obligation is immaterial at December 31, 2005.

Under the terms of its directors  and officers 
insurance policy, the Company was entitled to reimbursement of
certain legal costs incurred in connection with the litigation
described above. In October 2004, the Company received $306,000
which was recognized as an offset to general and administrative
expense in the fourth quarter of 2004.

On June 10, 2004, the Company entered into an employment
agreement with Dr. Lanser (the  Lanser
Agreement ) providing for his continued employment with the
Company. The Lanser Agreement was effective for a term of one
year, provided for compensation plus other benefits, and
included confidentiality and non-competition provisions. On
June 9, 2005, the Company entered into a Severance and
Settlement Agreement and Release with Dr. Lanser (the
 Lanser Settlement ). The Lanser Settlement terminated
the Lanser Agreement and entitles Dr. Lanser to receive
continued base salary and benefits for a period of nine months
from June 11, 2005 and requires that Dr. Lanser
continue to satisfy his obligations under the confidentiality,
invention assignment and restricted activities provisions of the
Lanser Agreement. The Company recorded a charge of approximately
$251,000 during the second quarter of 2005 related to this
obligation. The Lanser Settlement also provided that
Dr. Lanser s unvested options to
purchase 107,314 shares of common stock will continue
to vest on their stated terms and conditions as long as
Dr. Lanser continues to provide services as a member of the
Company s Scientific Advisory Board. On June 9, 2005,
the Company entered into a two-year consulting agreement with
Dr. Lanser, unless earlier terminated by the Company or
Dr. Lanser (the  Consulting Agreement ). Under
the terms of the Consulting Agreement, Dr. Lanser will,
among other things, support the Company in certain of its
preclinical and clinical development efforts and serve as a
member of the Company s Scientific Advisory Board. In the
event that the Company terminates the Consulting Agreement
without cause (as defined in the Consulting Agreement) prior to
June  11, 2007, all unvested options will become fully
vested. The Company recorded a charge of approximately $59,000
during the year ended December 31, 2005 related to this
modification of Dr. Lanser s options.

80

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

On September 12, 2005, the Company entered into a Severance
and Settlement Agreement and Release with Joseph Hernon (the
 Hernon Agreement ), the Company s former Chief
Financial Officer. The Hernon Agreement entitles Mr. Hernon to
receive continued base salary and benefits for a period of nine
months commencing on October 1, 2005. The Company recorded
a charge of approximately $204,000 during the third quarter of
2005 related to this obligation. The Hernon Agreement also
provided that Mr. Hernon s unvested options to
purchase 74,182 shares of common stock fully vested as
of Mr. Hernon s termination date, September 30, 2005.
The Hernon Agreement further provided that
Mr. Hernon s options to
purchase 133,527 shares of common stock, including the
74,182 accelerated options, be exercisable on their stated terms
and conditions from his termination date through and including
September 30, 2007. These options had an exercise price
greater than the market value of the Company s stock at
that time; hence, in accordance with APB 25 and
FIN 44,  Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving
Stock Compensation   an Interpretation of APB Opinion
No. 25,  no compensation expense was recorded in the
consolidated statements of operations.

Contingencies   

The Company is subject to legal proceedings in the ordinary
course of business. One such matter involves a claim for cash
and warrants to purchase shares of common stock of the Company
in connection with one of the Company s private placements.
Management has responded that there is no legal or equitable
basis for payment of the claim, and believes that the resolution
of this matter and others will not have a material adverse
effect on the consolidated financial statements.

10.  
     
     Related Party Transactions  

Mr. Langer, a member of the Company s board of
directors, provided consulting on scientific and commercial
matters to the Company pursuant to which the Company paid the
Mr. Langer consulting fees totaling approximately $0 and
$26,000 in 2005 and 2004, respectively. This agreement was
terminated upon Mr. Langer s appointment to the Audit
Committee.

Mr. Hillson provided consulting services to the Company
pursuant to which the Company paid Mr. Hillson consulting
fees totaling approximately $340,000 in 2004. During 2004, the
Company entered into the Hillson Agreement (Note 9). In
connection with his retirement from the Company,
Mr. Hillson, under the terms of his indemnity agreement,
requested that the Company establish a trust to fund any
indemnification amounts that may be owed to him. On
June 15, 2004, the Company entered into the Indemnity
Trust Agreement (Note 9) and the Company deposited a
total of $100,000 with the trustee in order to fund any
indemnification amounts owed to the Mr. Hillson.

During 2004, a former director of the Company was director and
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the bank where the
Company maintained its cash, cash equivalent and marketable
securities accounts. The Company paid approximately $77,000 to
the bank during fiscal 2004 primarily for investment management
advisory services. In June 2004, the Company obtained an
irrevocable standby letter of credit for the benefit of ISVP
from the bank and entered into an indemnity trust for the
benefit of a former director with the bank, for which the
Company paid the bank customary fees.

During 2001, the Company issued a promissory note to
Dr. Lanser in the amount of $55,000. The note was payable
on demand and accrued interest at a rate of 6%. As of
December 31, 2002, the balance outstanding on the note was
$32,901, and in the first quarter of 2003, the remaining
outstanding principal and interest was repaid in full.

In June 2005, Dr. Lanser left the Company to become
President and CEO of FluoroPharma, Inc.
( FluoroPharma ) an early stage company developing
Position Emission Tomography (PET) imaging

81

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

agents for the diagnosis of cardiac ischemia. In July 2005, the
Company reached an agreement with FluoroPharma to terminate a
development agreement between the Company and FluoroPharma
relating to FluoroPharma s PET imaging agents in exchange
for 25,000 shares of FluoroPharma Series A Preferred
Stock. The Company accounts for this investment under the cost
method. In February 2006, the Company agreed to convert its
25,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock into
25,000 shares of common stock of FluoroPharma. In addition,
the Company received a warrant to
purchase 5,000 shares of FluoroPharma s common
stock.

In June 2005, Kenneth Rice provided consulting services to the
Company pursuant to which the Company paid Mr. Rice
consulting fees totaling $15,000. In July 2005, Mr. Rice
was appointed Executive Vice President, Finance and
Administration and Chief Financial Officer of the Company.

Robert L. Gipson   

Gipson was a director of the Company from June 2004 through
October 2004. Gipson is a Senior Director of I&S. Boucher is
a Managing Director of I&S. ISVP is an investment
partnership managed under an investment advisory contract with
I&S. Gipson and Boucher are the general partners of ISVP and
share the power to vote securities of the Company held by ISVP.

In July 2002, the Company entered into agreements pursuant to
which it issued the Notes to ISVP (Note 5).

In November 2002, the Company entered into the Warrant Amendment
with I&S, Gipson, Monoyios and ISVP related to the transfer
of certain warrants. In February 2005, in consideration of the
immediate exercise of the warrants in cash, the Company agreed
to lower the exercise price of the warrants. The Company
received approximately $1,044,000 in connection with the
exercise of these warrants (Note 5).

In March 2003, the Company issued and sold an aggregate of
2,000,000 shares of its Common Stock at a purchase price of
$5.00 per share in a private placement (Note 7). The
investors in the private placement included Gipson, Thomas
Gipson (the brother of Gipson), Boucher, Patricia Gipson (the
 sister-in -law of
Gipson), other partners and employees of I&S, and other
individual investors. Gipson purchased 230,000 shares in
the private placement for an aggregate purchase price of
$1,150,000. Boucher purchased 50,000 shares in the private
placement for an aggregate purchase price of $250,000. Thomas
Gipson purchased 200,000 shares in the private placement
for an aggregate purchase price of $1,000,000. Patricia Gipson
purchased 20,000 shares in the private placement for an
aggregate purchase price of $100,000.

The Company amended its Rights Plan in connection with
agreements with Gipson, Boucher, I&S and ISVP (Note 7).

In 2004, the Company entered into the Settlement Agreement with
Gipson, Boucher, I&S, and ISVP (Note 9).

In March 2005, the Company issued and sold an aggregate of
2,000,000 shares of its common stock at a purchase price of
$2.50 per share in a private placement (Note 7). The
investors in the private placement included Gipson, Thomas
Gipson, Boucher, Patricia Gipson, other partners and employees
of I&S, and other individual investors. Gipson purchased
350,000 shares in the private placement for an aggregate
purchase price of $875,000. Boucher purchased 50,000 shares
in the private placement for an aggregate purchase price of
$125,000. Thomas Gipson purchased 470,000 shares in the
private placement for an aggregate purchase price of $1,175,000.
Patricia Gipson purchased 180,000 shares in the private
placement for an aggregate purchase price of $450,000.

82

Table of Contents   

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. 

(A Development Stage Enterprise) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

In September 2005, the Company issued and sold an aggregate of
6,000,000 shares of its common stock at a purchase price of
$2.13 per share in a private placement (Note 7). The
investors in the private placement included Gipson, Thomas
Gipson, and other partners and employees of I&S and other
individual investors. Gipson purchased 2,226,004 shares in
the private placement for an aggregate purchase price of
$4,741,389. Thomas Gipson purchased 2,226,004 shares in the
private placement for an aggregate purchase price of $4,741,389.

11.  
     
     Employee Benefit Plan  

The Company maintains a savings plan (the  Plan ) with
employer matching provisions which was designed to be qualified
under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Eligible
employees are permitted to contribute to the Plan through
payroll deductions within statutory and Plan limits. For the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company
made matching contributions of approximately $173,000, $22,000
and $26,000, respectively, to the Plan.

12.  
     
     Supplementary Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  

The following tables present a condensed summary of quarterly
consolidated results of operations for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004:

83

Table of Contents   

Item 9.  
     
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure.   

Not applicable.

Item 9A.  
     
      Controls and Procedures.   

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Our management, with the participation of our chief executive
officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness
of our disclosure controls and procedures as of
December 31, 2005. The term  disclosure controls and
procedures,  as defined in
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e)  under the
Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company
that are designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC s
rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include,
without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure
that information required to be disclosed by a company in the
reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is
accumulated and communicated to the company s management,
including its principal executive and principal financial
officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and
procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can
provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives
and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating
the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and
procedures. Based on this evaluation our chief executive officer
and chief financial officer concluded that, as of
December 31, 2005, our disclosure controls and procedures
were effective at the reasonable assurance level.

No change in our internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in
Rules  13a-15(f) 
and  15d-15(f)  under the
Exchange Act) occurred during the fiscal quarter ended
December 31, 2005 that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.

Item 9B.  
     
      Other Information.   

Not applicable.

PART III 

Item 10.  
     
      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.   

Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 

The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
( Code ). The Code constitutes the Company s Code
of Ethics applicable for all of the Company s directors,
officers and employees. The Code is intended to promote honest
and ethical conduct, full and accurate reporting, and compliance
with laws as well as other matters. The Code can be found on our
web site, which is located at www.bostonlifesciences.com. We
intend to make all required disclosures concerning any
amendments to, or waivers from, our code of ethics on our web
site.

All other information required by this Item 10, with
respect to executive officers, is hereby incorporated by
reference to the text appearing under Part 1, Item 4
under the caption  Executive Officers of the
Registrant  in this Report, and, with respect to directors,
by reference to the information included under the headings
 Information Regarding Directors ,  Executive
Officers , and  Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the Company s
definitive Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be filed by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of its
Company s fiscal year.

84

Table of Contents   

Item 11.  
     
      Executive Compensation.   

The information required by this Item 11 is hereby
incorporated by reference to the information under the heading
 Executive Compensation  and  Report of
Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation  in the
Company s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of its
fiscal year. The information specified in Item 402(i), (k)
and (l) of
Regulation  S-K  and
set forth in the Company s definitive Proxy Statement for
the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after
the close of its fiscal year is not incorporated by reference.

Item 12.  
     
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters.   

The information required by this Item 12 is hereby
incorporated by reference to the information under the heading
 Security Ownership of Principal Stockholders and
Management  in the Company s definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within
120 days after the close of its fiscal year.

Item 13.  
     
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.   

We have entered into indemnity agreements with each of our
directors and executive officers containing provisions that may
require us, among other things, to indemnify those directors and
officers against liabilities that may arise by reason of their
status or service as directors and officers. The agreements also
provide for us to advance to the directors and officers expenses
that they expect to incur as a result of any proceeding against
them related to their service as directors and officers.

All other information required by this Item 13 is hereby
incorporated by reference to the information under the heading
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  in
the Company s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2006
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of
its fiscal year.

Item 14.  
     
      Principal Accounting Fees and Services.   

The information required by this Item 14 is hereby
incorporated by reference to the information under the heading
 Independent Auditors Fees  in the Company s
definitive Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 120 days after the close of its fiscal
year.

PART IV 

Item 15.  
     
      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.   

(a)  The following documents are included as part of this
Annual Report on
Form  10-K.  

1.  Financial Statements: 

Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company 

Financial Statements of the Registrant and Report of Independent
    Registered Public Accounting Firm thereon 

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004 

85

Table of Contents   

2.  Financial Statement Schedules: 

Schedules are omitted since the required information is not
    applicable or is not present in amounts sufficient to require
    submission of the schedule, or because the information required
    is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes
    thereto. 

3.  Exhibits: 

The Exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately
    preceding the Exhibits are filed as a part of this Annual Report
    on Form  10-K.  

86

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized this 31st day of March, 2006.

Boston Life Sciences, Inc.

By:  /s/
     Peter G. Savas

Peter G. Savas  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/  Peter G. Savas 
        Peter G. Savas  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive
    Officer) 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Kenneth L.
    Rice, Jr. 
        Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.  

Executive Vice President Finance and Administration and Chief
    Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Robert S.
    Langer, Jr. 
        Robert S. Langer, Jr.  

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Michael J. Mullen 
        Michael J. Mullen  

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  John T. Preston 
        John T. Preston  

Director 

March 31, 2006 

87

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

88

Table of Contents   

89

Table of Contents   

90

Table of Contents   

91

Table of Contents   

92

Table of Contents   

93

Table of Contents   

*       
     
    Filed herewith 

(#)  
     
    Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed as
    an exhibit to this Form pursuant to Item 14(c) of
    Form  10-K.  

(+)  
     
    Confidential treatment has been requested as to certain
    portions, which portions have been filed separately with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission. 

94

<EX-4.1>
 2
 b58962blexv4w1.txt
 EX-4.1 SPECIMEN CERTIFICATE EVIDENCING SHARES OF COMMON STOCK

Exhibit 4.1

                              CERTIFICATE OF STOCK

                                    SPECIMEN

NEW COMMON STOCK                                                NEW COMMON STOCK
- ----------------                                                ----------------
     NUMBER             (BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC. LOGO)            SHARES
- ----------------                                                ----------------
BLS
- ----------------                                                ----------------

                           BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

INCORPORATED UNDER THE LAWS OF                                 SEE REVERSE FOR
     THE STATE OF DELAWARE                                   CERTAIN DEFINITIONS

                                                              CUSIP 100843 70 5

THIS CERTIFIES THAT
                    ------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IS THE RECORD HOLDER OF
                        --------------------------------------------------------

   FULLY PAID AND NONASSESSABLE SHARES OF THE COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE, OF

                           BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

transferable on the books of the Corporation in person or by duly authorized
attorney upon surrender of this Certificate properly endorsed. This Certificate
is not valid unless countersigned and registered by the Transfer Agent and
Registar.

     WITNESS the facsimile seal of the Corporation and the facsimile signatures
of its duly authorized officers.

Dated:

                                     (SEAL)

- -------------------------------------   ----------------------------------------
SECRETARY                               CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Countersigned and Registered:

                   CONTINENTAL STOCK TRANSFER & TRUST COMPANY
                               (Jersey City, N.J.)

                                        Transfer Agent and Registrar

By
   ----------------------------------   ----------------------------------------
                                        Authorized Officer

The Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so
requests a statement of the powers, designations, preferences and relative,
participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock of the
Corporation or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or
restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. Such requests shall be made to
the Corporation's Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation.

     The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of
this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM           -- as tenants in common

TEN ENT           -- as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN            -- as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as
                     tenants in common

UNIF GIFT MIN ACT -- __________________ Custodian ______________________________
                           (Cust)                             (Minor)
                     under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act _________________________
                                                                (State)

UNIF TRF MIN ACT  -- __________________ Custodian (until age ____) _____________
                           (Cust)                                     (Minor)
                     under Uniform Transfers to Minors Act _____________________
                                                                  (State)

     Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.

     FOR VALUE RECEIVED, ________________ hereby sell, assign and transfer unto

PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER
    IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
- --------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  (PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING ZIP CODE, OF ASSIGNEE)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares of the common stock represented by the within Certificate, and do hereby
irrevocably constitute and appoint

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Attorney to transfer the said stock on the books of the within named Corporation
with full power of substitution in the premises.

Dated
      ------------------

                                     X
                                        ----------------------------------------

                                     X
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                NOTICE: THE SIGNATURE(S) TO THIS ASSIGNMENT MUST
                                        CORRESPOND WITH THE NAME(S) AS WRITTEN
                                        UPON THE FACE OF THE CERTIFICATE IN
                                        EVERY PARTICULAR, WITHOUT ALTERATION OR
                                        ENLARGEMENT OR ANY CHANGE WHATEVER.

Signature(s) Guaranteed:

By
   -------------------------------------
THE SIGNATURE(S) MUST BE GUARANTEED BY
AN ELIGIBLE GUARANTOR INSTITUTION
(BANKS, STOCKBROKERS, SAVINGS AND LOAN
ASSOCIATIONS AND CREDIT UNIONS WITH
MEMBERSHIP IN AN APPROVED SIGNATURE
GUARANTEE MEDALLION PROGRAM), PURSUANT
TO S.E.C. RULE 17Ad-15.

This certificate also evidences and entitles the holder to Rights set forth in a
Rights Agreement between the issuer and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust
Company, as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent"), dated as of September 11, 2001
(the "Rights Agreement"), the terms of which are incorporated herein by
reference and a copy of which is on file at the principal offices of both the
issuer and the Rights Agent. The Company will mail to the registered holder of
this certificate a copy of the Rights Agreement, as in effect on the date of
mailing, without charge upon written request. Under certain circumstances set
forth in the Rights Agreement, such Rights will be evidenced by separate
certificates and will no longer be evidenced by this certificate. Under certain
circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement, Rights issued to, or held by
any Person who is, was or becomes, or acquires shares from, an Acquiring Person
or any Affiliate of an Acquiring Person (as each such term is defined in the
Rights Agreement and generally relating to the ownership or purchase of large
shareholdings), whether currently held by or on behalf of such Person or
Affiliate or by certain subsequent holders, may become null and void.

</EX-4.1>

<EX-10.28>
 3
 b58962blexv10w28.txt
 EX-10.28 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION SUMMARY

EXHIBIT 10.28

                   Non-Employee Director Compensation Summary

      Boston Life Sciences, Inc.'s (the "Company's") non-employee directors
currently consist of: (i) Robert S. Langer, Jr.; (ii) Michael J. Mullen; and
(iii) John T. Preston.

      In the third quarter of 2005, the Board of Directors amended the Company's
non-employee director compensation as follows:

All non-employee directors are reimbursed for ordinary and reasonable
expenses of attending any board or committee meetings.

      Each new non-employee director is automatically granted an option to
purchase 15,000 shares of the Company's common stock ("New Director Options")
upon initial election or appointment (the "Automatic Grant Date"). The exercise
price of any New Director Options granted shall equal the fair market value of
shares of the Company's common stock subject thereto on the Automatic Grant
Date. New Director Options immediately vest as to 1/3 of the shares with the
remaining 2/3 of the shares subject to such New Director Option vesting in equal
monthly installments over two years ("New Director Option Vesting").

      Each non-employee director is automatically granted an option to purchase
10,000 shares of the Company's common stock ("Annual Director Options"). The
Annual Director Options are granted in the fourth quarter of each calendar year
(the "Annual Grant Date"). The exercise price of any Annual Director Options
granted shall equal the fair market value of shares of the Company's common
stock subject thereto on the Annual Grant Date. Annual Director Options vest in
equal monthly installments over two years ("Annual Director Option Vesting").
Newly elected non-employee directors are eligible to receive the Annual Director
Options in the fourth quarter of the second calendar year of service. On
December 12, 2005, Messrs. Mullen, Langer and Preston were each granted options
to purchase 10,000 shares of common stock under this policy with an exercise
price of $2.00 per share.

      If the Company appoints a non-employee chairman, the chairman will be
entitled to an annual retainer of $50,000 (in lieu of the $22,000 that is
received by the other non-employee directors) and per board meeting fees of
$2,000. The non-employee chairman will be automatically granted an option to
purchase 30,000 shares of the Company's common stock upon appointment (in lieu
of the 15,000 shares that is received by the other non-employee directors)
vesting in accordance with the New Director Option Vesting. In addition, the
non-employee chairman will be automatically granted an option to purchase 20,000
shares of the Company's common stock on the Annual Grant Date vesting in
accordance with the Annual Director Option Vesting. The newly elected
non-employee chairman is entitled to receive this annual grant in the fourth
quarter of the second calendar year of service. The exercise price of any
options granted to a non-employee chairman shall equal the fair market value of
shares of the Company's common stock subject thereto on the grant date.

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.29>
 4
 b58962blexv10w29.txt
 EX-10.29 EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION SUMMARY

EXHIBIT 10.29

                     Executive Officer Compensation Summary

      Boston Life Sciences, Inc.'s (the "Company's") executive officers consist
of: (i) Peter G. Savas, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; (ii) Mark J.
Pykett, President and Chief Operating Officer; and (iii) Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.,
Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer
and Secretary.

      The Company's compensation program for its executive officers consists of
four parts: base salary, annual bonus, stock options and additional benefits.
The Company's overall recruitment and compensation philosophy is a very
important consideration in the maintenance of this program. The Company seeks to
hire individuals possessing excellent professional skills, coupled with
demonstrated track records, who can be expected to help achieve the Company's
goal of moving from a development-stage company to a broad-based, diversified,
revenue-generating biotechnology company.

      The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee")
seeks to establish base salaries for each position and level of responsibility
at a competitive level, sufficient to recruit and retain individuals possessing
the skills and experience necessary to achieve the Company's goals and
objectives over the long term. Base salary levels are generally established with
the input of various industry-related surveys and special studies as well as by
monitoring developments in the biotechnology industry. Annual cash bonuses
and/or incentive payments may be awarded to executive officers and the Company
expects to pay such amounts based on both an evaluation of the performance of
each executive officer for the year as a whole, as well as the establishment of
performance incentives for the following year dependent upon the realization of
specific corporate objectives. Options under the Company's stock option plans
are granted to all executive officers as incentive to contribute significantly
to the growth and successful operation of the Company. The specific
determination of the number of options to be granted, however, is not based upon
any specific criteria, although the Committee does reference industry data in
assessing the reasonableness of all awards.

      On March 31, 2006, the Company entered into employment agreements with
each of Messrs. Savas, Pykett and Rice effective January 1, 2006 as follows:

      Mr. Savas. On September 8, 2004, Mr. Savas joined the Company as Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Savas' employment agreement is effective for a
term of one year, provides for a base salary of $400,000 per year plus other
benefits and includes confidentiality and non-competition provisions. The
Committee approved a bonus of $100,000 for 2005. Subject to certain
contingencies, Mr. Savas is entitled to a one-year severance allowance in the
event that he is terminated in certain circumstances. The Agreement
automatically renews for an additional 12 month period, unless either party
notifies the other party in writing not less than 90 days prior to expiration.
In addition, on January 10, 2006, Mr. Savas was granted an option to purchase
350,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per
share, vesting monthly as to 1/96th of the shares granted thereunder, subject to
accelerated vesting if certain performance goals are achieved. In addition, on
March 11, 2005, Mr. Savas was granted an option to purchase 200,000 shares of
the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $2.31 per share, of which 33%
immediately vested and the remaining 67% will vest in equal monthly installments
over three years.

      Mr. Pykett. On November 1, 2004, Mr. Pykett joined the Company as
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and on February 3, 2005 was
appointed President and remained Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Pykett's
employment agreement is effective for a term of one year, provides for a base
salary of $300,000 per year plus other benefits and includes confidentiality and
non-competition provisions. The Committee approved a bonus of $68,750 for 2005.
Subject to certain contingencies, Mr. Pykett will be entitled to a nine-month
severance allowance in the event that he is terminated in certain circumstances.
The Agreement automatically renews for an additional 12 month period, unless
either party notifies the other party in writing not less than 90 days prior to
expiration. In addition, on January 10,

2006, Mr. Pykett was granted an option to purchase 225,000 shares of the
Company's common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per share, vesting monthly
as to 1/96th of the shares granted thereunder, subject to accelerated vesting if
certain performance goals are achieved. In addition, on March 11, 2005, Mr.
Pykett was granted an option to purchase 100,000 shares of the Company's common
stock at an exercise price of $2.31 per share, of which 33% immediately vested
and the remaining 67% will vest in equal monthly installments over three years.
In addition, on February 4, 2005, Mr. Pykett was granted an option to purchase
100,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $3.75 per
share, of which 25% immediately vested and the remaining 75% will vest in equal
monthly installments over four years.

      Mr. Rice. On July 8, 2005, Mr. Rice joined the Company as Executive Vice
President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Rice's
employment agreement is effective for a term of one year, provides for a base
salary of $300,000 per year plus other benefits and includes confidentiality and
non-competition provisions. The Committee approved a bonus of $34,375 for 2005.
Subject to certain contingencies, Mr. Rice will be entitled to a nine-month
severance allowance in the event that he is terminated in certain circumstances.
The Agreement automatically renews for an additional 12 month period, unless
either party notifies the other party in writing not less than 90 days prior to
expiration. In addition, on January 10, 2006, Mr. Rice was granted an option to
purchase 225,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of
$2.50 per share, vesting monthly as to 1/96th of the shares granted thereunder,
subject to accelerated vesting if certain performance goals are achieved. In
addition, on July 18, 2005, Mr. Rice was granted an option to purchase 300,000
shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $3.25 per share, of
which 33% immediately vested and the remaining 67% will vest in equal monthly
installments over three years.

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.48>
 5
 b58962blexv10w48.txt
 EX-10.48 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 3/31/06 - SAVAS

EXHIBIT 10.48

                              EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

      THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made and entered into as of
March 31, 2006 and is effective as of January 1, 2006 (the "Effective Date"), by
and between BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"),
and Peter G. Savas. ("Executive").

AGREEMENT

1. EMPLOYMENT

      The Company hereby employs Executive and Executive hereby accepts
employment upon the terms and conditions set forth below.

2. TERM AND RENEWAL

      2.1 Term. The term of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date,
and shall continue for one (1) year from the Effective Date (the "Original
Employment Term"), on the terms and conditions set forth below, unless sooner
terminated as provided in Section 5.

      2.2 Extension. Following the expiration of the Original Employment Term
and provided that this Agreement has not been terminated pursuant to Section 5,
and every year thereafter, the Agreement shall be automatically renewed for an
additional 12 month period (the "Extension Period"), effective on each
anniversary date of the Effective Date, unless either party notifies the other
party in writing not less than 90 days prior to the expiration of the Original
Employment Term or any subsequent 12 month period.

3. COMPENSATION

      3.1 Base Compensation. For the services to be rendered by Executive under
this Agreement, Executive shall be entitled to receive an initial annual base
compensation ("Base Compensation") of $400,000, payable in substantially equal
twice-monthly installments. Thereafter, the Base Compensation shall be reviewed
and adjusted annually as determined by the Compensation Committee (the
"Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the
Company, or if there is no Compensation Committee, then by the Board provided,
however, in no event may the Base Compensation be adjusted below the initial
annual Base Compensation set forth in this Section 3.1.

      3.2 Bonus Compensation. The Compensation Committee shall review
Executive's performance at least annually during each year of the Original
Employment Term and during any periods of automatic extension of this Agreement
pursuant to Section 2.2 and cause the Company to award Executive a cash bonus
targeted at 25% of the Executive's Base Compensation which the Compensation
Committee shall reasonably determine as fairly compensating and rewarding
Executive for services rendered to the Company and/or as an incentive for
continued service to the Company. The amount of such cash bonus shall be
determined in the sole and absolute discretion of the Compensation Committee,
shall be dependent on, among other things, the achievement of certain
performance levels by the

Company, including, without limitation, growth in funds from operations, and
Executive's performance and contribution to increasing the funds from
operations.

3.3 Benefits.

            (a) Medical Insurance. The Company shall provide to Executive and
Executive's spouse and children, at its sole cost, such health, dental and
optical insurance as the Company may from time to time make available to its
other executive employees.

            (b) Life and Disability Insurance. The Company shall provide
Executive such disability and life insurance as the Company in its sole
discretion may from time to time make available to its other executive
employees.

            (c) Pension Plans, Etc. Executive shall be entitled to participate
in all pension, 401(k) and other employee plans and benefits established by the
Company on at least the same terms as the Company's other executive employees.

      3.4 Vacation. Executive shall be entitled to four (4) vacation weeks (20
business days) in each calendar year, subject to and on a basis consistent with
Company policy. In addition, Executive shall be entitled to all Company holidays
and other paid time off in accordance with Company policy.

4. POSITION AND DUTIES

      4.1 Position. Executive shall serve as Chief Executive Officer. The
Company agrees that the duties that may be assigned Executive shall be the usual
and customary duties of the Chief Executive Officer. Executive shall have such
executive power and authority as shall reasonably be required to enable
Executive to discharge the duties of such offices. At the Company's request,
Executive may, at Executive's discretion, serve the Company and its respective
subsidiaries in other offices and capacities in addition to the foregoing, but
shall not be required to do so. In the event the Company and Executive mutually
agree that Executive shall terminate Executive's service in any one or more of
the aforementioned capacities, or Executive's service in one or more of the
aforementioned capacities is terminated, Executive's compensation, as specified
in this Agreement, shall not be diminished or reduced in any manner.

      4.2 Devotion of Time and Effort. Executive shall use Executive's good
faith best efforts and judgment in performing Executive's duties as required
hereunder and to act in the best interests of the Company. Executive shall
devote substantially all of his business time and attention to the performance
of services of the Company in his capacity as an officer thereof and as may
reasonably be requested by the Board.

      4.3 Other Activities. Executive may engage in other activities for
Executive's own account while employed hereunder, including, without limitation,
charitable, community and other business activities, provided that such other
activities do not materially interfere with the performance of Executive's
duties hereunder.

      4.4 Business Expenses. The Company shall promptly, but in no event later
than ten business days after submission of a claim of expenditure, reimburse
Executive for all reasonable

                                       2

business expenses including, without limitation, business seminar fees,
professional association dues, bar dues and reasonable entertainment expenses
incurred by Executive in connection with the business of the Company, upon
presentation to the Company of written receipts for such expenses. Such
reimbursement shall also include, but not be limited to, reimbursement for all
reasonable travel expenses, including all airfare, hotel and rental car expenses
incurred by Executive in traveling in connection with the business of the
Company.

      4.5 Company's Obligations. The Company shall provide Executive with any
and all necessary or appropriate current financial information and access to
current information and records regarding all material transactions involving
the Company, including but not limited to acquisition of assets, personnel
contracts, dispositions of assets, service agreements and registration
statements or other state or federal filings or disclosures, reasonably
necessary for Executive to carry out Executive's duties and responsibilities
hereunder. In addition, the Company agrees to provide Executive, as a condition
to Executive's services hereunder, such staff, equipment and office space as is
reasonably necessary for Executive to perform Executive's duties hereunder.

5. TERMINATION

      5.1 By Company Without Cause. The Company may terminate this Agreement
without "cause" (as hereinafter defined) at any time following the Effective
Date, provided that the Company first deliver to Executive the Company's written
election to terminate this Agreement at least 90 days prior to the effective
date of termination.

      5.2 Severance Payment.

            (a) Amount. In the event the Company terminates Executive's services
hereunder without cause pursuant to Section 5.1 or by Executive pursuant to
Section 5.5, Executive shall continue to render services to the Company pursuant
to this Agreement until the date of termination and shall continue to receive
compensation, as provided hereunder, through the termination date. In addition
to other compensation payable to Executive for services rendered through the
termination date, the Company shall pay Executive no later than the date of such
termination, as a single severance payment, an amount equal to (i) Executive's
highest monthly Base Compensation paid hereunder during the preceding 12 month
period, multiplied by 12, plus (ii) one times the average annual bonus
(excluding any bonus payment deemed by the Compensation Committee in its sole
discretion to be a "Special Bonus") received by the Executive during the
preceding twenty-four month period (the "Severance Amount").

            (b) Benefits. In the event Executive's employment hereunder is
terminated by the Company without cause pursuant to Section 5.1 , by the Company
with cause on account of Executive's Disability (as defined in Section 5.3(d)
hereof), or by Executive pursuant to Section 5.5, then in addition to paying
Executive the Severance Amount, the Company shall continue to pay for and
provide to Executive and Executive's spouse and children, as applicable, all of
the benefits described in Section 3.3 for a period of 1 year commencing on the
date of such termination (the "Severance Benefits").

                                       3

(c) Acceleration of Vesting. In the event Executive's employment
hereunder is terminated by the Company without cause pursuant to Section 5.1 or
by Executive pursuant to Section 5.5, then in addition to paying Executive the
Severance Amount and the Severance Benefits, the vesting of (i) the unvested
portion of any stock option to purchase Company common stock granted to
Executive ("Stock Options") and (ii) any shares of Company common stock granted
to Executive which is subject to forfeiture ("Restricted Stock"), shall be
accelerated and shall become fully vested and immediately exercisable and all
Stock Options shall be exercisable through the earlier of the expiration date of
the option provided for in the option grant agreement (without regard to
termination of employment)(the "Final Exercise Date") or 24 months following the
Termination date and, with respect to Restricted Stock, shall cease to be
subject to forfeiture. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in the case of
any Stock Options that are outstanding on the date of this Agreement, the
extension of the exercise period provided for in the preceding sentence shall
not extend the period during which such Stock Options may be exercised beyond
the date that is the later of the fifteenth day of the third month following the
date, or December 31 of the calendar year in which, the Stock Option would
otherwise have expired if the exercise period had not been extended based on the
terms of such options at the original grant date.

      5.3 By the Company For Cause. The Company may terminate Executive for
cause at any time, upon written notice to Executive. For purposes of this
Agreement, "cause" shall mean:

            (a) Executive's conviction for commission of a felony;

            (b) Executive's willful commission of any act of theft, embezzlement
or misappropriation against the Company;

            (c) Executive's willful and continued failure to substantially
perform Executive's duties hereunder (other than such failure resulting from
Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness), which failure is not
remedied within a reasonable time after written demand for substantial
performance is delivered by the Company which specifically identifies the manner
in which the Company believes that Executive has not substantially performed
Executive's duties; or

            (d) Executive's death or Disability (as hereinafter defined).

      In the event Executive is terminated for cause pursuant to this Section
5.3, Executive shall have the right to receive Executive's compensation as
otherwise provided under this Agreement through the effective date of
termination. Executive shall have no further right to receive compensation or
other consideration from the Company or have any other remedy whatsoever against
the Company as a result of this Agreement or the termination of Executive
pursuant to this Section 5.3, except as set forth below with respect to a
termination due to Executive's Disability.

      In the event Executive is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability,
the Company shall immediately pay Executive or his or her estate a single
severance payment equal to the Severance Amount. Said payment shall be in
addition to any life insurance or disability insurance payments to which
Executive or his or her estate is otherwise entitled and any other

                                       4

compensation earned by Executive hereunder. For purposes of this Agreement, the
term "Disability" shall mean death or (a) that the Executive is unable to engage
in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment that can be expect to result in death or can be
expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, (b) that
the Executive is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental
impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement
benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health
plan covering employees of the Company, or (c) that the Executive has been
determined to be totally disabled by the Social Security Administration.

      5.4 Executive's Voluntary Termination. Executive may, at any time,
terminate this Agreement upon written notice delivered to the Company at least
90 days prior to the effective date of termination. In the event of such
voluntary termination of this Agreement by Executive: (i) Executive shall have
the right to receive Executive's compensation as provided hereunder through the
effective date of termination; and (ii) the Company on the one hand, and
Executive, on the other hand, shall not have any further right or remedy against
one another except as provided in Sections 6, 7 and 8 hereof which shall remain
in full force and effect.

      5.5 Change of Control. Executive may terminate this Agreement, upon at
least 10 days' prior written notice to the Company at any time within one year
after a "change in control" (as hereinafter defined) of the Company. In the
event Executive terminates this Agreement within one year after a change in
control pursuant to this Section 5.5, (i) Executive shall continue to render
services pursuant hereto and shall continue to receive compensation, as provided
hereunder, through the termination date, (ii) the Company shall pay Executive no
later than the date of such termination, as a single severance payment, an
amount equal to the Severance Amount and (iii) following such termination, the
Company shall provide the Severance Benefits as required by Section 5.2(b). For
purposes of this Agreement, a "change in control" shall mean the occurrence of
any of the following events:

            (a) an acquisition of any voting securities of the Company (the
"Voting Securities") by any "person" (as the term "person" is used for purposes
of Section 13(d) or Section 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the "1934 Act")) immediately after which such person has "beneficial
ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) of
45% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding
Voting Securities; or

            (b) approval by the stockholders of the Company of:

                  (i) a merger, consolidation, share exchange or reorganization
of the Company, unless the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such
merger, consolidation, share exchange or reorganization, own, directly or
indirectly immediately following such merger, consolidation, share exchange or
reorganization, at least 51% of the combined voting power of the outstanding
voting securities of the corporation that is the successor in such merger,
consolidation, share exchange or reorganization (the "Surviving Company") in
substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Voting Securities
immediately before such merger, consolidation, share exchange or reorganization;
or

                                       5

(ii) a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or

                  (iii) an agreement for the sale or other disposition of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company.

      5.6 Required Delay. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the
contrary, if, at the time the Executive's employment is terminated, the
Executive is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section
409A(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code") and the
regulations thereunder, then any payments under this Agreement to the Executive
that constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of
Section 409A of the Code shall be delayed by a period of six months and (i) all
payments that would have been made to the Executive during such six month period
shall be made in a lump sum in the seventh month following the date of
termination and (ii) all remaining payments shall commence in the seventh month
following the date of termination.

6. NON-SOLICITATION

      For a period of one year following the date Executive's employment
hereunder is terminated, Executive shall not solicit or induce any of the
Company's employees, agents or independent contractors to end their relationship
with the Company, or recruit, hire or otherwise induce any such person to
perform services for Executive, or any other person, firm or company. The
restrictions set forth in this Section 7 shall not apply if Executive's
employment is terminated pursuant to Section 5.1 or 5.5.

7. NON-COMPETITION AFTER TERMINATION

      Executive agrees to be bound by the terms of the Confidential Information
and Non-Competition agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated
herein by reference.

8. INDEMNIFICATION

      To the fullest extent permitted under applicable law, the Company shall
indemnify, defend and hold Executive harmless from and against any and all
causes of action, claims, demands, liabilities, damages, costs and expenses of
any nature whatsoever (collectively, "Damages") directly or indirectly arising
out of or relating to Executive discharging Executive's duties hereunder on
behalf of the Company, so long as Executive acted in good faith within the
course and scope of Executive's duties with respect to the matter giving rise to
the claim or Damages for which Executive seeks indemnification.

9. GENERAL PROVISIONS

      9.1 Assignment; Binding Effect. Neither the Company nor Executive may
assign, delegate or otherwise transfer this Agreement or any of their respective
rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the other
party. Any attempted prohibited assignment or delegation shall be void. This
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any permitted
successors or assigns of the parties and the heirs, executors, administrators
and/or personal representatives of Executive.

                                       6

9.2 Notices. All notices, requests, demands and other communications that
are required or may be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall
be deemed to have been duly given where received if personally delivered; when
transmitted if transmitted by telecopy, electronic or digital transmission
method with electronic confirmation of receipt; the day after it is sent, if
sent for next-day delivery to a domestic address by recognized overnight
delivery service (e.g., FEDEX); and upon receipt, if sent by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested. In each case notice shall be sent to:

      If to the Company:        Boston Life Sciences, Inc.
                                85 Main Street
                                Hopkinton, MA 01748

                                Attention:  Chief Executive Officer
                                Facsimile:  508-497-9664

      If to Executive:          Peter G Savas

Any party may change its address for the purpose of this Section 9.2 by giving
the other party written notice of its new address in the manner set forth above.

      9.3 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of
the parties, and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and
negotiations, whether written or oral, between the Company and Executive with
respect to the employment of Executive by the Company.

      9.4 Amendments; Waivers. This Agreement may be amended or modified, and
any of the terms and covenants may be waived, only by a written instrument
executed by the parties hereto, or, in the case of a waiver, by the party
waiving compliance. Any waiver by any party in any one or more instances of any
term or covenant contained in this Agreement shall neither be deemed to be nor
construed as a further or continuing waiver of any such term or covenant of this
Agreement.

      9.5 Provision; Severable. In case any one or more provisions of this
Agreement shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the
validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained
herein shall not, in any way, be affected or impaired thereby. If any provision
hereof is determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
unenforceable by reason of such provision extending the covenants and agreements
contained herein for too great a period of time or over too great a geographical
area, or being too extensive in any other respect, such provision shall be
interpreted to extend only over the maximum period of time and geographical
area, and to the maximum extent in all other respects, as to which it is valid
and enforceable, all as determined by such court in such action.

                                       7

9.6 Attorneys' Fees. If any legal action, arbitration or other proceeding,
is brought for the enforcement of this Agreement, or because of an alleged
dispute, breach or default in connection with any of the provisions of this
Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable
attorneys' fees and other costs incurred in that action or proceeding, including
any appeal of such action or proceeding, in addition to any other relief to
which that party may be entitled.

      9.7 Section 409A. All payments and benefits provided under this Agreement
are intended to either comply with or be exempt from Section 409A of the Code
and this Agreement shall be administered and construed accordingly.

      9.8 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be construed, performed and
enforced in accordance with, and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware
without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws thereof.

      9.9 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall
constitute the same instrument.

                            [Signature Page Follows]

                                       8

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement
effective as of the date first written above.

THE COMPANY

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.
a Delaware corporation

By:   /s/ Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.
      ----------------------------
      Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.
      Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration & CFO

EXECUTIVE

/s/ Peter G. Savas
- ----------------------

Peter G. Savas

EXHIBIT A

              CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION AND NONCOMPETITION AGREEMENT

To:   Boston Life Sciences, Inc.                       Date:

      The undersigned, in consideration of and as a condition of my employment
or continued employment by you and/or by companies that you own, control, or are
affiliated with or their successors in business (collectively, the "Company"),
hereby agrees as follows:

      1. Confidentiality. I agree to keep confidential, except as the Company
may otherwise consent in writing, and except for the Company's benefit, not to
disclose or make any use of at any time either during or subsequent to my
employment, any Inventions (as hereinafter defined), trade secrets, confidential
information, knowledge, data or other information of the Company relating to
products, franchises, processes, know-how, techniques, methods, designs,
formulas, test data, customer lists, business plans, marketing plans and
strategies, pricing strategies, or other subject matter pertaining to any
business of the Company or any of its affiliates, which I may produce, obtain,
or otherwise acquire during the course of my employment, except as herein
provided. I further agree not to deliver, reproduce or in any way allow any such
trade secrets, confidential information, knowledge, data or other information,
or any documentation relating thereto, to be delivered to or used by any third
parties without specific direction or consent of the Chairman of the Board or
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The provisions of this Section 1
shall not apply to such knowledge, data or other information that is generally
known to the public.

      2. Conflicting Employment; Return of Confidential Material. I agree that
during my employment with the Company I will not engage in any other employment,
occupation, consulting or other activity relating to the business in which the
Company is now or may hereafter become engaged, or which would otherwise
conflict with my obligations to the Company. In the event my employment with the
Company terminates for any reason whatsoever, I agree to promptly surrender and
deliver to the Company all trade secrets, confidential information, processes
and records, including, but not limited to, designs, formulae, test data,
customer lists, business plans and strategies, Inventions or other written
memoranda, materials, equipment, drawings, documents and data that I may obtain
or produce during the course of my employment, and I will not take with me any
description containing or pertaining to any confidential information, knowledge
or data of the Company that I may produce or obtain during the course of my
employment.

                                       10

3. Assignment of Inventions.

            3.1 I hereby acknowledge and agree that the Company is the owner of
all Inventions. In order to protect the Company's rights to such Inventions, by
executing this Agreement I hereby irrevocably assign to the Company all my
right, title and interest in and to all Inventions to the Company.

            3.2 For purposes of this Agreement, "Inventions" shall mean all
discoveries, processes, designs, technologies, methods, techniques, devices, or
improvements in any of the foregoing or other ideas, whether or not patentable
or copyrightable and whether or not reduced to practice, made or conceived by me
(whether solely or jointly with others) during the period of my employment with
the Company that relate to the actual or demonstrably anticipated business,
work, or research and development of the Company, or result from or are
suggested by any task assigned to me or any work performed by me for or on
behalf of the Company.

            3.3 Any discovery, process, design, method, technique, technology,
device, or improvement in any of the foregoing or other ideas, whether or not
patentable or copyrightable and whether or not reduced to practice, made or
conceived by me (whether solely or jointly with others) that I develop entirely
on my own time not using any of the Company's equipment, supplies, facilities,
or trade secret information ("Personal Invention") is excluded from this
Agreement provided such Personal Invention (a) does not relate to the actual or
demonstrably anticipated business, research and development of the Company, and
(b) does not result, directly or indirectly, from any work performed by me for
the Company.

      4. Disclosure of Inventions. I agree that in connection with any
Invention, I will promptly disclose such Invention to the Board of Directors of
the Company in order to permit the Company to enforce its property rights to
such Invention in accordance with this Agreement. My disclosure shall be
received in confidence by the Company. If the Company in good faith decides not
to use an Invention, it will advise me of same and the rights to such Invention
will revert to me within a reasonable period of time.

      5. Patents and Copyrights; Execution of Documents.

            5.1 Upon request, I agree to assist the Company or its nominee (at
its expense) during and at any time subsequent to my employment in every
reasonable way to obtain for its own benefit patents and copyrights for
Inventions in any and all countries. Such patents and copyrights shall be and
remain the sole and exclusive property of the Company or its nominee. I agree to
perform such lawful acts as the Company deems to be necessary to allow it to
exercise all right, title and interest in and to such patents and copyrights.

            5.2 In connection with this Agreement, I agree to execute,
acknowledge and deliver to the Company or its nominee upon request and at its
expense all documents, including assignments of title, patent or copyright
applications, assignments of such applications, assignments of patents or
copyrights upon issuance, as the Company may determine necessary or desirable to
protect the Company's or its nominee's interest in Inventions, and/or to use in

                                       11

obtaining patents or copyrights in any and all countries and to vest title
thereto in the Company or its nominee to any of the foregoing.

      6. Maintenance of Records. I agree to keep and maintain adequate and
current written records of all Inventions made by me (in the form of notes,
sketches, drawings, flowcharts, printouts, diskettes and other records as may be
specified by the Company), which records shall be available to and remain the
sole property of the Company at all times.

      7. Prior Inventions. It is understood that all Personal Inventions, if
any, whether patented or unpatented, which I made prior to my employment by the
Company, are excluded from this Agreement. To preclude any possible uncertainty,
I have set forth on Schedule A attached hereto a complete list of all of my
prior Personal Inventions, including numbers of all patents and patent
applications and a brief description of all unpatented Personal Inventions that
are not the property of a previous employer. I represent and covenant that the
list is complete and that, if no items are on the list, I have no such prior
Personal Inventions. I agree to notify the Company in writing before I make any
disclosure or perform any work on behalf of the Company that appears to threaten
or conflict with proprietary rights I claim in any Personal Invention. In the
event of my failure to give such notice, I agree that I will make no claim
against the Company with respect to any such Personal Invention.

      8. Other Obligations. I acknowledge that the Company from time to time may
have agreements with other persons, companies, entities, Governments or agencies
thereof, that impose obligations or restrictions on the Company regarding
Inventions made during the course of work thereunder or regarding the
confidential nature of such work. I agree to be bound by all such obligations
and restrictions and to take all actions necessary to discharge the Company's
obligations.

      9. Trade Secrets of Others. I represent that my performance of all the
terms of this Agreement and as an employee of the Company does not and will not
breach any agreement to keep confidential proprietary information, knowledge, or
data acquired by me in confidence or in trust prior to my employment with the
Company, and I will not disclose to the Company, or induce the Company to use,
any confidential or proprietary information or material belonging to any
previous employer or others. I agree not to enter into any agreement either
written or oral in conflict herewith.

      10. Post-Employment Activities.

            10.1 For a period of one (1) year after the termination, for any
reason, of my employment with the Company, absent the Company's prior written
approval, I will not directly or indirectly engage in activities similar or
reasonably related to those in which I shall have engaged for the Company during
the two years immediately preceding termination, nor render services similar or
reasonably related to those which I shall have rendered during such time to, any
person or entity whether existing or hereafter established that directly
competes with (or proposes or plans to directly compete with) the Company, or in
other areas where the Company carries on a substantial amount of business
("Direct Competitor"). In addition, I shall not entice,

                                       12

induce or encourage any of the Company's other employees to engage in any
activity that, were it done by me, would violate any provision of this
Agreement.

            10.2 No provision of this Agreement shall be construed to preclude
me from performing the same services that the Company retains me to perform for
any person or entity that is not a Direct Competitor of the Company upon the
termination of my employment (or any post-employment consultation) so long as I
do not thereby violate any term of this Agreement.

      11. Remedies. My obligations under this Agreement shall survive the
termination of my employment with the Company. I acknowledge that a remedy at
law for any breach or threatened breach by me of the provisions of this
Agreement would be inadequate and I therefore agree that the Company shall be
entitled to injunctive relief in case of any such breach or threatened breach.

      12. Modification. I agree that any subsequent change or changes in my
employment duties, salary or compensation or, if applicable, in any Employment
Agreement between the Company and me, shall not affect the validity or scope of
this Agreement.

      13. Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon my heirs,
executors, administrators or other legal representatives and is for the benefit
of the Company, its successors and assigns.

      14. Interpretation. IT IS THE INTENT OF THE PARTIES THAT in case any one
or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement shall, for any reason, be
held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity,
illegality or unenforceability shall not affect the other provisions of this
Agreement, and this Agreement shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or
unenforceable provision had never been contained herein. MOREOVER, IT IS THE
INTENT OF THE PARTIES THAT if any provision of this Agreement is or becomes or
is deemed invalid, illegal or unenforceable or in case any one or more of the
provisions contained in this Agreement shall for any reason be held to be
excessively broad as to duration, geographical scope, activity or subject, such
provision shall be construed by amending, limiting and/or reducing it to conform
to applicable laws so as to be valid and enforceable or, if it cannot be so
amended without materially altering the intention of the parties, it shall be
stricken and the remainder of this Agreement shall remain in full force and
effect.

      15. Waivers. No waiver of any right under this Agreement shall be deemed
effective unless contained in a writing signed by the party charged with such
waiver, and no waiver of any right arising from any breach or failure to perform
shall be deemed to be a waiver of any future such right or of any other right
arising under this Agreement. If either party should waive any breach of any
provision of this Agreement, he or it shall not thereby be deemed to have waived
any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other provision of this
Agreement.

      16. Complete Agreement, Amendments. The foregoing is the entire agreement
of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, superseding any
previous oral or written communications, representations, understandings, or
agreements with the Company or any officer or representative thereof. Any
amendment to this Agreement or waiver by the Company

                                       13

of any right hereunder shall be effective only if evidenced by a written
instrument executed by the parties hereto, upon authorization of the Company's
Board of Directors.

      17. Headings. The headings of the Sections contained in this Agreement are
inserted for convenience and reference only and in no way define, limit, extend
or describe the scope of this Agreement, or the intent of any provision hereof,
and shall not be deemed to constitute a part hereof nor to affect the meaning of
this Agreement in any way.

      18. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the internal laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
excluding its conflict of law principles.

      19. Notices. All notices, requests, demands and communications which are
or may be required to be given hereunder shall be deemed effectively given if
and when sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage
prepaid, to the following addresses:

            If to the Company:

            If to Employee:

      21. Conflicts. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this
agreement and the provisions of the Employment Agreement, the provisions of the
Employment Agreement will govern.

                                                   Very truly yours,

Agreed:
Boston Life Sciences, Inc.

By:_____________________________________

                                       14

</EX-10.48>

<EX-10.49>
 6
 b58962blexv10w49.txt
 EX-10.49 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 3/31/06 - PYKETT

EXHIBIT 10.49

                              EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

      THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made and entered into as of
March 31, 2006 and is effective as of January 1, 2006 (the "Effective Date"), by
and between BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"),
and Mark Pykett. ("Executive").

AGREEMENT

1. EMPLOYMENT

      The Company hereby employs Executive and Executive hereby accepts
employment upon the terms and conditions set forth below.

2. TERM AND RENEWAL

      2.1 Term. The term of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date,
and shall continue for one (1) year from the Effective Date (the "Original
Employment Term"), on the terms and conditions set forth below, unless sooner
terminated as provided in Section 5.

      2.2 Extension. Following the expiration of the Original Employment Term
and provided that this Agreement has not been terminated pursuant to Section 5,
and every year thereafter, the Agreement shall be automatically renewed for an
additional 12 month period (the "Extension Period"), effective on each
anniversary date of the Effective Date, unless either party notifies the other
party in writing not less than 90 days prior to the expiration of the Original
Employment Term or any subsequent 12 month period.

3. COMPENSATION

      3.1 Base Compensation. For the services to be rendered by Executive under
this Agreement, Executive shall be entitled to receive an initial annual base
compensation ("Base Compensation") of $300,000, payable in substantially equal
twice-monthly installments. Thereafter, the Base Compensation shall be reviewed
and adjusted annually as determined by the Compensation Committee (the
"Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the
Company, or if there is no Compensation Committee, then by the Board provided,
however, in no event may the Base Compensation be adjusted below the initial
annual Base Compensation set forth in this Section 3.1.

      3.2 Bonus Compensation. The Compensation Committee shall review
Executive's performance at least annually during each year of the Original
Employment Term and during any periods of automatic extension of this Agreement
pursuant to Section 2.2 and cause the Company to award Executive a cash bonus
targeted at 25% of the Executive's Base Compensation which the Compensation
Committee shall reasonably determine as fairly compensating and rewarding
Executive for services rendered to the Company and/or as an incentive for
continued service to the Company. The amount of such cash bonus shall be
determined in the sole and absolute discretion of the Compensation Committee,
shall be dependent on, among other things, the achievement of certain
performance levels by the

Company, including, without limitation, growth in funds from operations, and
Executive's performance and contribution to increasing the funds from
operations.

      3.3 Benefits.

            (a) Medical Insurance. The Company shall provide to Executive and
Executive's spouse and children, at its sole cost, such health, dental and
optical insurance as the Company may from time to time make available to its
other executive employees.

            (b) Life and Disability Insurance. The Company shall provide
Executive such disability and life insurance as the Company in its sole
discretion may from time to time make available to its other executive
employees.

            (c) Pension Plans, Etc. Executive shall be entitled to participate
in all pension, 401(k) and other employee plans and benefits established by the
Company on at least the same terms as the Company's other executive employees.

      3.4 Vacation. Executive shall be entitled to four (4) vacation weeks (20
business days) in each calendar year, subject to and on a basis consistent with
Company policy. In addition, Executive shall be entitled to all Company holidays
and other paid time off in accordance with Company policy.

4. POSITION AND DUTIES

      4.1 Position. Executive shall serve as President & Chief Operating
Officer. The Company agrees that the duties that may be assigned Executive shall
be the usual and customary duties of the President and Chief Operating Officer.
Executive shall have such executive power and authority as shall reasonably be
required to enable Executive to discharge the duties of such offices. At the
Company's request, Executive may, at Executive's discretion, serve the Company
and its respective subsidiaries in other offices and capacities in addition to
the foregoing, but shall not be required to do so. In the event the Company and
Executive mutually agree that Executive shall terminate Executive's service in
any one or more of the aforementioned capacities, or Executive's service in one
or more of the aforementioned capacities is terminated, Executive's
compensation, as specified in this Agreement, shall not be diminished or reduced
in any manner.

      4.2 Devotion of Time and Effort. Executive shall use Executive's good
faith best efforts and judgment in performing Executive's duties as required
hereunder and to act in the best interests of the Company. Executive shall
devote substantially all of his business time and attention to the performance
of services of the Company in his capacity as an officer thereof and as may
reasonably be requested by the Board.

      4.3 Other Activities. Executive may engage in other activities for
Executive's own account while employed hereunder, including, without limitation,
charitable, community and other business activities, provided that such other
activities do not materially interfere with the performance of Executive's
duties hereunder.

                                       2

4.4 Business Expenses. The Company shall promptly, but in no event later
than ten business days after submission of a claim of expenditure, reimburse
Executive for all reasonable business expenses including, without limitation,
business seminar fees, professional association dues, bar dues and reasonable
entertainment expenses incurred by Executive in connection with the business of
the Company, upon presentation to the Company of written receipts for such
expenses. Such reimbursement shall also include, but not be limited to,
reimbursement for all reasonable travel expenses, including all airfare, hotel
and rental car expenses incurred by Executive in traveling in connection with
the business of the Company.

      4.5 Company's Obligations. The Company shall provide Executive with any
and all necessary or appropriate current financial information and access to
current information and records regarding all material transactions involving
the Company, including but not limited to acquisition of assets, personnel
contracts, dispositions of assets, service agreements and registration
statements or other state or federal filings or disclosures, reasonably
necessary for Executive to carry out Executive's duties and responsibilities
hereunder. In addition, the Company agrees to provide Executive, as a condition
to Executive's services hereunder, such staff, equipment and office space as is
reasonably necessary for Executive to perform Executive's duties hereunder.

5. TERMINATION

      5.1 By Company Without Cause. The Company may terminate this Agreement
without "cause" (as hereinafter defined) at any time following the Effective
Date, provided that the Company first deliver to Executive the Company's written
election to terminate this Agreement at least 90 days prior to the effective
date of termination.

      5.2 Severance Payment.

            (a) Amount. In the event the Company terminates Executive's services
hereunder without cause pursuant to Section 5.1 or by Executive pursuant to
Section 5.5, Executive shall continue to render services to the Company pursuant
to this Agreement until the date of termination and shall continue to receive
compensation, as provided hereunder, through the termination date. In addition
to other compensation payable to Executive for services rendered through the
termination date, the Company shall pay Executive no later than the date of such
termination, as a single severance payment, an amount equal to (i) Executive's
highest monthly Base Compensation paid hereunder during the preceding 12 month
period, multiplied by 9, plus (ii) 9/12 the average annual bonus (excluding any
bonus payment deemed by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion to be
a "Special Bonus") received by the Executive during the preceding twenty-four
month period (the "Severance Amount").

            (b) Benefits. In the event Executive's employment hereunder is
terminated by the Company without cause pursuant to Section 5.1 , by the Company
with cause on account of Executive's Disability (as defined in Section 5.3(d)
hereof), or by Executive pursuant to Section 5.5, then in addition to paying
Executive the Severance Amount, the Company shall continue to pay for and
provide to Executive and Executive's spouse and children, as applicable, all of
the benefits described in Section 3.3 for a period of 9 months commencing on the
date of such termination (the "Severance Benefits").

                                       3

(c) Acceleration of Vesting. In the event Executive's employment
hereunder is terminated by the Company without cause pursuant to Section 5.1 or
by Executive pursuant to Section 5.5, then in addition to paying Executive the
Severance Amount and the Severance Benefits, the vesting of (i) the unvested
portion of any stock option to purchase Company common stock granted to
Executive ("Stock Options") and (ii) any shares of Company common stock granted
to Executive which is subject to forfeiture ("Restricted Stock"), shall be
accelerated and shall become fully vested and immediately exercisable and all
Stock Options shall be exercisable through the earlier of the expiration date of
the option provided for in the option grant agreement (without regard to
termination of employment)(the "Final Exercise Date") or 24 months following the
Termination date and, with respect to Restricted Stock, shall cease to be
subject to forfeiture. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in the case of
any Stock Options that are outstanding on the date of this Agreement, the
extension of the exercise period provided for in the preceding sentence shall
not extend the period during which such Stock Options may be exercised beyond
the date that is the later of the fifteenth day of the third month following the
date, or December 31 of the calendar year in which, the Stock Option would
otherwise have expired if the exercise period had not been extended based on the
terms of such options at the original grant date.

      5.3 By the Company For Cause. The Company may terminate Executive for
cause at any time, upon written notice to Executive. For purposes of this
Agreement, "cause" shall mean:

            (a) Executive's conviction for commission of a felony;

            (b) Executive's willful commission of any act of theft, embezzlement
or misappropriation against the Company;

            (c) Executive's willful and continued failure to substantially
perform Executive's duties hereunder (other than such failure resulting from
Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness), which failure is not
remedied within a reasonable time after written demand for substantial
performance is delivered by the Company which specifically identifies the manner
in which the Company believes that Executive has not substantially performed
Executive's duties; or

            (d) Executive's death or Disability (as hereinafter defined).

      In the event Executive is terminated for cause pursuant to this Section
5.3, Executive shall have the right to receive Executive's compensation as
otherwise provided under this Agreement through the effective date of
termination. Executive shall have no further right to receive compensation or
other consideration from the Company or have any other remedy whatsoever against
the Company as a result of this Agreement or the termination of Executive
pursuant to this Section 5.3, except as set forth below with respect to a
termination due to Executive's Disability.

      In the event Executive is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability,
the Company shall immediately pay Executive or his or her estate a single
severance payment equal to the Severance Amount. Said payment shall be in
addition to any life insurance or disability insurance payments to which
Executive or his or her estate is otherwise entitled and any other

                                       4

compensation earned by Executive hereunder. For purposes of this Agreement, the
term "Disability" shall mean death or (a) that the Executive is unable to engage
in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment that can be expect to result in death or can be
expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, (b) that
the Executive is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental
impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement
benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health
plan covering employees of the Company, or (c) that the Executive has been
determined to be totally disabled by the Social Security Administration.

      5.4 Executive's Voluntary Termination. Executive may, at any time,
terminate this Agreement upon written notice delivered to the Company at least
90 days prior to the effective date of termination. In the event of such
voluntary termination of this Agreement by Executive: (i) Executive shall have
the right to receive Executive's compensation as provided hereunder through the
effective date of termination; and (ii) the Company on the one hand, and
Executive, on the other hand, shall not have any further right or remedy against
one another except as provided in Sections 6, 7 and 8 hereof which shall remain
in full force and effect.

      5.5 Change of Control. Executive may terminate this Agreement, upon at
least 10 days' prior written notice to the Company at any time within one year
after a "change in control" (as hereinafter defined) of the Company. In the
event Executive terminates this Agreement within one year after a change in
control pursuant to this Section 5.5, (i) Executive shall continue to render
services pursuant hereto and shall continue to receive compensation, as provided
hereunder, through the termination date, (ii) the Company shall pay Executive no
later than the date of such termination, as a single severance payment, an
amount equal to the Severance Amount and (iii) following such termination, the
Company shall provide the Severance Benefits as required by Section 5.2(b). For
purposes of this Agreement, a "change in control" shall mean the occurrence of
any of the following events:

            (a) an acquisition of any voting securities of the Company (the
"Voting Securities") by any "person" (as the term "person" is used for purposes
of Section 13(d) or Section 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the "1934 Act")) immediately after which such person has "beneficial
ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) of
45% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding
Voting Securities; or

            (b) approval by the stockholders of the Company of:

                  (i) a merger, consolidation, share exchange or reorganization
of the Company, unless the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such
merger, consolidation, share exchange or reorganization, own, directly or
indirectly immediately following such merger, consolidation, share exchange or
reorganization, at least 51% of the combined voting power of the outstanding
voting securities of the corporation that is the successor in such merger,
consolidation, share exchange or reorganization (the "Surviving Company") in
substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Voting Securities
immediately before such merger, consolidation, share exchange or reorganization;
or

                                       5

(ii) a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or

                  (iii) an agreement for the sale or other disposition of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company.

      5.6 Required Delay. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the
contrary, if, at the time the Executive's employment is terminated, the
Executive is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section
409A(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code") and the
regulations thereunder, then any payments under this Agreement to the Executive
that constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of
Section 409A of the Code shall be delayed by a period of six months and (i) all
payments that would have been made to the Executive during such six month period
shall be made in a lump sum in the seventh month following the date of
termination and (ii) all remaining payments shall commence in the seventh month
following the date of termination.

6. NON-SOLICITATION

      For a period of one year following the date Executive's employment
hereunder is terminated, Executive shall not solicit or induce any of the
Company's employees, agents or independent contractors to end their relationship
with the Company, or recruit, hire or otherwise induce any such person to
perform services for Executive, or any other person, firm or company. The
restrictions set forth in this Section 7 shall not apply if Executive's
employment is terminated pursuant to Section 5.1 or 5.5.

7. NON-COMPETITION AFTER TERMINATION

      Executive agrees to be bound by the terms of the Confidential Information
and Non-Competition agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated
herein by reference.

8. INDEMNIFICATION

      To the fullest extent permitted under applicable law, the Company shall
indemnify, defend and hold Executive harmless from and against any and all
causes of action, claims, demands, liabilities, damages, costs and expenses of
any nature whatsoever (collectively, "Damages") directly or indirectly arising
out of or relating to Executive discharging Executive's duties hereunder on
behalf of the Company, so long as Executive acted in good faith within the
course and scope of Executive's duties with respect to the matter giving rise to
the claim or Damages for which Executive seeks indemnification.

9. GENERAL PROVISIONS

      9.1 Assignment; Binding Effect. Neither the Company nor Executive may
assign, delegate or otherwise transfer this Agreement or any of their respective
rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the other
party. Any attempted prohibited assignment or delegation shall be void. This
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any permitted
successors or assigns of the parties and the heirs, executors, administrators
and/or personal representatives of Executive.

                                       6

9.2 Notices. All notices, requests, demands and other communications that
are required or may be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall
be deemed to have been duly given where received if personally delivered; when
transmitted if transmitted by telecopy, electronic or digital transmission
method with electronic confirmation of receipt; the day after it is sent, if
sent for next-day delivery to a domestic address by recognized overnight
delivery service (e.g., FEDEX); and upon receipt, if sent by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested. In each case notice shall be sent to:

      If to the Company:     Boston Life Sciences, Inc.
                             85 Main Street
                             Hopkinton, MA 01748

                             Attention:  Chief Executive Officer
                             Facsimile:  508-497-9664

      If to Executive:       Mark Pykett

Any party may change its address for the purpose of this Section 9.2 by giving
the other party written notice of its new address in the manner set forth above.

      9.3 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of
the parties, and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and
negotiations, whether written or oral, between the Company and Executive with
respect to the employment of Executive by the Company.

      9.4 Amendments; Waivers. This Agreement may be amended or modified, and
any of the terms and covenants may be waived, only by a written instrument
executed by the parties hereto, or, in the case of a waiver, by the party
waiving compliance. Any waiver by any party in any one or more instances of any
term or covenant contained in this Agreement shall neither be deemed to be nor
construed as a further or continuing waiver of any such term or covenant of this
Agreement.

      9.5 Provision; Severable. In case any one or more provisions of this
Agreement shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the
validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained
herein shall not, in any way, be affected or impaired thereby. If any provision
hereof is determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
unenforceable by reason of such provision extending the covenants and agreements
contained herein for too great a period of time or over too great a geographical
area, or being too extensive in any other respect, such provision shall be
interpreted to extend only over the maximum period of time and geographical
area, and to the maximum extent in all other respects, as to which it is valid
and enforceable, all as determined by such court in such action.

      9.6 Attorneys' Fees. If any legal action, arbitration or other proceeding,
is brought for the enforcement of this Agreement, or because of an alleged
dispute, breach or default in

                                       7

connection with any of the provisions of this Agreement, the prevailing party
shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys' fees and other costs incurred
in that action or proceeding, including any appeal of such action or proceeding,
in addition to any other relief to which that party may be entitled.

      9.7 Section 409A. All payments and benefits provided under this Agreement
are intended to either comply with or be exempt from Section 409A of the Code
and this Agreement shall be administered and construed accordingly.

      9.8 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be construed, performed and
enforced in accordance with, and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware
without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws thereof.

      9.9 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall
constitute the same instrument.

                            [Signature Page Follows]

                                       8

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement
effective as of the date first written above.

THE COMPANY

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.
a Delaware corporation

By:   /s/ Peter G. Savas
      ---------------------------------
      Peter G. Savas.
      Chief Executive Officer

EXECUTIVE

/s/ Mark Pykett
- ---------------------------------------

Mark Pykett

EXHIBIT A

              CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION AND NONCOMPETITION AGREEMENT

To:   Boston Life Sciences, Inc.                   Date:

      The undersigned, in consideration of and as a condition of my employment
or continued employment by you and/or by companies that you own, control, or are
affiliated with or their successors in business (collectively, the "Company"),
hereby agrees as follows:

      1. Confidentiality. I agree to keep confidential, except as the Company
may otherwise consent in writing, and except for the Company's benefit, not to
disclose or make any use of at any time either during or subsequent to my
employment, any Inventions (as hereinafter defined), trade secrets, confidential
information, knowledge, data or other information of the Company relating to
products, franchises, processes, know-how, techniques, methods, designs,
formulas, test data, customer lists, business plans, marketing plans and
strategies, pricing strategies, or other subject matter pertaining to any
business of the Company or any of its affiliates, which I may produce, obtain,
or otherwise acquire during the course of my employment, except as herein
provided. I further agree not to deliver, reproduce or in any way allow any such
trade secrets, confidential information, knowledge, data or other information,
or any documentation relating thereto, to be delivered to or used by any third
parties without specific direction or consent of the Chairman of the Board or
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The provisions of this Section 1
shall not apply to such knowledge, data or other information that is generally
known to the public.

      2. Conflicting Employment; Return of Confidential Material. I agree that
during my employment with the Company I will not engage in any other employment,
occupation, consulting or other activity relating to the business in which the
Company is now or may hereafter become engaged, or which would otherwise
conflict with my obligations to the Company. In the event my employment with the
Company terminates for any reason whatsoever, I agree to promptly surrender and
deliver to the Company all trade secrets, confidential information, processes
and records, including, but not limited to, designs, formulae, test data,
customer lists, business plans and strategies, Inventions or other written
memoranda, materials, equipment, drawings, documents and data that I may obtain
or produce during the course of my employment, and I will not take with me any
description containing or pertaining to any confidential information, knowledge
or data of the Company that I may produce or obtain during the course of my
employment.

                                       10

3. Assignment of Inventions.

            3.1 I hereby acknowledge and agree that the Company is the owner of
all Inventions. In order to protect the Company's rights to such Inventions, by
executing this Agreement I hereby irrevocably assign to the Company all my
right, title and interest in and to all Inventions to the Company.

            3.2 For purposes of this Agreement, "Inventions" shall mean all
discoveries, processes, designs, technologies, methods, techniques, devices, or
improvements in any of the foregoing or other ideas, whether or not patentable
or copyrightable and whether or not reduced to practice, made or conceived by me
(whether solely or jointly with others) during the period of my employment with
the Company that relate to the actual or demonstrably anticipated business,
work, or research and development of the Company, or result from or are
suggested by any task assigned to me or any work performed by me for or on
behalf of the Company.

            3.3 Any discovery, process, design, method, technique, technology,
device, or improvement in any of the foregoing or other ideas, whether or not
patentable or copyrightable and whether or not reduced to practice, made or
conceived by me (whether solely or jointly with others) that I develop entirely
on my own time not using any of the Company's equipment, supplies, facilities,
or trade secret information ("Personal Invention") is excluded from this
Agreement provided such Personal Invention (a) does not relate to the actual or
demonstrably anticipated business, research and development of the Company, and
(b) does not result, directly or indirectly, from any work performed by me for
the Company.

      4. Disclosure of Inventions. I agree that in connection with any
Invention, I will promptly disclose such Invention to the Board of Directors of
the Company in order to permit the Company to enforce its property rights to
such Invention in accordance with this Agreement. My disclosure shall be
received in confidence by the Company. If the Company in good faith decides not
to use an Invention, it will advise me of same and the rights to such Invention
will revert to me within a reasonable period of time.

      5. Patents and Copyrights; Execution of Documents.

            5.1 Upon request, I agree to assist the Company or its nominee (at
its expense) during and at any time subsequent to my employment in every
reasonable way to obtain for its own benefit patents and copyrights for
Inventions in any and all countries. Such patents and copyrights shall be and
remain the sole and exclusive property of the Company or its nominee. I agree to
perform such lawful acts as the Company deems to be necessary to allow it to
exercise all right, title and interest in and to such patents and copyrights.

            5.2 In connection with this Agreement, I agree to execute,
acknowledge and deliver to the Company or its nominee upon request and at its
expense all documents, including assignments of title, patent or copyright
applications, assignments of such applications, assignments of patents or
copyrights upon issuance, as the Company may determine necessary or desirable to
protect the Company's or its nominee's interest in Inventions, and/or to use in

                                       11

obtaining patents or copyrights in any and all countries and to vest title
thereto in the Company or its nominee to any of the foregoing.

      6. Maintenance of Records. I agree to keep and maintain adequate and
current written records of all Inventions made by me (in the form of notes,
sketches, drawings, flowcharts, printouts, diskettes and other records as may be
specified by the Company), which records shall be available to and remain the
sole property of the Company at all times.

      7. Prior Inventions. It is understood that all Personal Inventions, if
any, whether patented or unpatented, which I made prior to my employment by the
Company, are excluded from this Agreement. To preclude any possible uncertainty,
I have set forth on Schedule A attached hereto a complete list of all of my
prior Personal Inventions, including numbers of all patents and patent
applications and a brief description of all unpatented Personal Inventions that
are not the property of a previous employer. I represent and covenant that the
list is complete and that, if no items are on the list, I have no such prior
Personal Inventions. I agree to notify the Company in writing before I make any
disclosure or perform any work on behalf of the Company that appears to threaten
or conflict with proprietary rights I claim in any Personal Invention. In the
event of my failure to give such notice, I agree that I will make no claim
against the Company with respect to any such Personal Invention.

      8. Other Obligations. I acknowledge that the Company from time to time may
have agreements with other persons, companies, entities, Governments or agencies
thereof, that impose obligations or restrictions on the Company regarding
Inventions made during the course of work thereunder or regarding the
confidential nature of such work. I agree to be bound by all such obligations
and restrictions and to take all actions necessary to discharge the Company's
obligations.

      9. Trade Secrets of Others. I represent that my performance of all the
terms of this Agreement and as an employee of the Company does not and will not
breach any agreement to keep confidential proprietary information, knowledge, or
data acquired by me in confidence or in trust prior to my employment with the
Company, and I will not disclose to the Company, or induce the Company to use,
any confidential or proprietary information or material belonging to any
previous employer or others. I agree not to enter into any agreement either
written or oral in conflict herewith.

      10. Post-Employment Activities.

            10.1 For a period of one (1) year after the termination, for any
reason, of my employment with the Company, absent the Company's prior written
approval, I will not directly or indirectly engage in activities similar or
reasonably related to those in which I shall have engaged for the Company during
the two years immediately preceding termination, nor render services similar or
reasonably related to those which I shall have rendered during such time to, any
person or entity whether existing or hereafter established that directly
competes with (or proposes or plans to directly compete with) the Company, or in
other areas where the Company carries on a substantial amount of business
("Direct Competitor"). In addition, I shall not entice,

                                       12

induce or encourage any of the Company's other employees to engage in any
activity that, were it done by me, would violate any provision of this
Agreement.

            10.2 No provision of this Agreement shall be construed to preclude
me from performing the same services that the Company retains me to perform for
any person or entity that is not a Direct Competitor of the Company upon the
termination of my employment (or any post-employment consultation) so long as I
do not thereby violate any term of this Agreement.

      11. Remedies. My obligations under this Agreement shall survive the
termination of my employment with the Company. I acknowledge that a remedy at
law for any breach or threatened breach by me of the provisions of this
Agreement would be inadequate and I therefore agree that the Company shall be
entitled to injunctive relief in case of any such breach or threatened breach.

      12. Modification. I agree that any subsequent change or changes in my
employment duties, salary or compensation or, if applicable, in any Employment
Agreement between the Company and me, shall not affect the validity or scope of
this Agreement.

      13. Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon my heirs,
executors, administrators or other legal representatives and is for the benefit
of the Company, its successors and assigns.

      14. Interpretation. IT IS THE INTENT OF THE PARTIES THAT in case any one
or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement shall, for any reason, be
held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity,
illegality or unenforceability shall not affect the other provisions of this
Agreement, and this Agreement shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or
unenforceable provision had never been contained herein. MOREOVER, IT IS THE
INTENT OF THE PARTIES THAT if any provision of this Agreement is or becomes or
is deemed invalid, illegal or unenforceable or in case any one or more of the
provisions contained in this Agreement shall for any reason be held to be
excessively broad as to duration, geographical scope, activity or subject, such
provision shall be construed by amending, limiting and/or reducing it to conform
to applicable laws so as to be valid and enforceable or, if it cannot be so
amended without materially altering the intention of the parties, it shall be
stricken and the remainder of this Agreement shall remain in full force and
effect.

      15. Waivers. No waiver of any right under this Agreement shall be deemed
effective unless contained in a writing signed by the party charged with such
waiver, and no waiver of any right arising from any breach or failure to perform
shall be deemed to be a waiver of any future such right or of any other right
arising under this Agreement. If either party should waive any breach of any
provision of this Agreement, he or it shall not thereby be deemed to have waived
any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other provision of this
Agreement.

      16. Complete Agreement, Amendments. The foregoing is the entire agreement
of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, superseding any
previous oral or written communications, representations, understandings, or
agreements with the Company or any officer or representative thereof. Any
amendment to this Agreement or waiver by the Company

                                       13

of any right hereunder shall be effective only if evidenced by a written
instrument executed by the parties hereto, upon authorization of the Company's
Board of Directors.

      17. Headings. The headings of the Sections contained in this Agreement are
inserted for convenience and reference only and in no way define, limit, extend
or describe the scope of this Agreement, or the intent of any provision hereof,
and shall not be deemed to constitute a part hereof nor to affect the meaning of
this Agreement in any way.

      18. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the internal laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
excluding its conflict of law principles.

      19. Notices. All notices, requests, demands and communications which are
or may be required to be given hereunder shall be deemed effectively given if
and when sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage
prepaid, to the following addresses:

            If to the Company:

            If to Employee:

      21. Conflicts. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this
agreement and the provisions of the Employment Agreement, the provisions of the
Employment Agreement will govern.

                                                Very truly yours,

Agreed:
Boston Life Sciences, Inc.

By:_____________________________________

                                       14

</EX-10.49>

<EX-10.50>
 7
 b58962blexv10w50.txt
 EX-10.50 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 3/31/06 - RICE

EXHIBIT 10.50

                              EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

      THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made and entered into as of
March 31, 2006 and is effective as of January 1, 2006 (the "Effective Date"), by
and between BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"),
and Kenneth L. Rice Jr. ("Executive").

AGREEMENT

1.    EMPLOYMENT

      The Company hereby employs Executive and Executive hereby accepts
employment upon the terms and conditions set forth below.

2.    TERM AND RENEWAL

      2.1 Term. The term of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date,
and shall continue for one (1) year from the Effective Date (the "Original
Employment Term"), on the terms and conditions set forth below, unless sooner
terminated as provided in Section 5.

      2.2 Extension. Following the expiration of the Original Employment Term
and provided that this Agreement has not been terminated pursuant to Section 5,
and every year thereafter, the Agreement shall be automatically renewed for an
additional 12 month period (the "Extension Period"), effective on each
anniversary date of the Effective Date, unless either party notifies the other
party in writing not less than 90 days prior to the expiration of the Original
Employment Term or any subsequent 12 month period.

3.    COMPENSATION

      3.1 Base Compensation. For the services to be rendered by Executive under
this Agreement, Executive shall be entitled to receive an initial annual base
compensation ("Base Compensation") of $300,000, payable in substantially equal
twice-monthly installments. Thereafter, the Base Compensation shall be reviewed
and adjusted annually as determined by the Compensation Committee (the
"Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the
Company, or if there is no Compensation Committee, then by the Board provided,
however, in no event may the Base Compensation be adjusted below the initial
annual Base Compensation set forth in this Section 3.1.

      3.2 Bonus Compensation. The Compensation Committee shall review
Executive's performance at least annually during each year of the Original
Employment Term and during any periods of automatic extension of this Agreement
pursuant to Section 2.2 and cause the Company to award Executive a cash bonus
targeted at 25% of the Executive's Base Compensation which the Compensation
Committee shall reasonably determine as fairly compensating and rewarding
Executive for services rendered to the Company and/or as an incentive for
continued service to the Company. The amount of such cash bonus shall be
determined in the sole and absolute discretion of the Compensation Committee,
shall be

dependent on, among other things, the achievement of certain performance levels
by the Company, including, without limitation, growth in funds from operations,
and Executive's performance and contribution to increasing the funds from
operations.

      3.3 Benefits.

            (a) Medical Insurance. The Company shall provide to Executive and
Executive's spouse and children, at its sole cost, such health, dental and
optical insurance as the Company may from time to time make available to its
other executive employees.

            (b) Life and Disability Insurance. The Company shall provide
Executive such disability and life insurance as the Company in its sole
discretion may from time to time make available to its other executive
employees.

            (c) Pension Plans, Etc. Executive shall be entitled to participate
in all pension, 401(k) and other employee plans and benefits established by the
Company on at least the same terms as the Company's other executive employees.

      3.4 Vacation. Executive shall be entitled to four (4) vacation weeks (20
business days) in each calendar year, subject to and on a basis consistent with
Company policy. In addition, Executive shall be entitled to all Company holidays
and other paid time off in accordance with Company policy.

4.    POSITION AND DUTIES

      4.1 Position. Executive shall serve as Executive Vice President, Finance
and Administration and Chief Financial Officer. The Company agrees that the
duties that may be assigned Executive shall be the usual and customary duties of
the Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial
Officer. Executive shall have such executive power and authority as shall
reasonably be required to enable Executive to discharge the duties of such
offices. At the Company's request, Executive may, at Executive's discretion,
serve the Company and its respective subsidiaries in other offices and
capacities in addition to the foregoing, but shall not be required to do so. In
the event the Company and Executive mutually agree that Executive shall
terminate Executive's service in any one or more of the aforementioned
capacities, or Executive's service in one or more of the aforementioned
capacities is terminated, Executive's compensation, as specified in this
Agreement, shall not be diminished or reduced in any manner.

      4.2 Devotion of Time and Effort. Executive shall use Executive's good
faith best efforts and judgment in performing Executive's duties as required
hereunder and to act in the best interests of the Company. Executive shall
devote substantially all of his business time and attention to the performance
of services of the Company in his capacity as an officer thereof and as may
reasonably be requested by the Board.

      4.3 Other Activities. Executive may engage in other activities for
Executive's own account while employed hereunder, including, without limitation,
charitable, community and other business activities, provided that such other
activities do not materially interfere with the performance of Executive's
duties hereunder.

                                       2

4.4 Business Expenses. The Company shall promptly, but in no event later
than ten business days after submission of a claim of expenditure, reimburse
Executive for all reasonable business expenses including, without limitation,
business seminar fees, professional association dues, bar dues and reasonable
entertainment expenses incurred by Executive in connection with the business of
the Company, upon presentation to the Company of written receipts for such
expenses. Such reimbursement shall also include, but not be limited to,
reimbursement for all reasonable travel expenses, including all airfare, hotel
and rental car expenses incurred by Executive in traveling in connection with
the business of the Company.

      4.5 Company's Obligations. The Company shall provide Executive with any
and all necessary or appropriate current financial information and access to
current information and records regarding all material transactions involving
the Company, including but not limited to acquisition of assets, personnel
contracts, dispositions of assets, service agreements and registration
statements or other state or federal filings or disclosures, reasonably
necessary for Executive to carry out Executive's duties and responsibilities
hereunder. In addition, the Company agrees to provide Executive, as a condition
to Executive's services hereunder, such staff, equipment and office space as is
reasonably necessary for Executive to perform Executive's duties hereunder.

5.    TERMINATION

      5.1 By Company Without Cause. The Company may terminate this Agreement
without "cause" (as hereinafter defined) at any time following the Effective
Date, provided that the Company first deliver to Executive the Company's written
election to terminate this Agreement at least 90 days prior to the effective
date of termination.

      5.2 Severance Payment.

            (a) Amount. In the event the Company terminates Executive's services
hereunder without cause pursuant to Section 5.1 or by Executive pursuant to
Section 5.5, Executive shall continue to render services to the Company pursuant
to this Agreement until the date of termination and shall continue to receive
compensation, as provided hereunder, through the termination date. In addition
to other compensation payable to Executive for services rendered through the
termination date, the Company shall pay Executive no later than the date of such
termination, as a single severance payment, an amount equal to (i) Executive's
highest monthly Base Compensation paid hereunder during the preceding 12 month
period, multiplied by 9, plus (ii) 9/12 the average annual bonus (excluding any
bonus payment deemed by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion to be
a "Special Bonus") received by the Executive during the preceding twenty-four
month period (the "Severance Amount").

            (b) Benefits. In the event Executive's employment hereunder is
terminated by the Company without cause pursuant to Section 5.1 , by the Company
with cause on account of Executive's Disability (as defined in Section 5.3(d)
hereof), or by Executive pursuant to Section 5.5, then in addition to paying
Executive the Severance Amount, the Company shall continue to pay for and
provide to Executive and Executive's spouse and children, as applicable, all of
the benefits described in Section 3.3 for a period of 9 months commencing on the
date of such termination (the "Severance Benefits").

                                       3

(c) Acceleration of Vesting. In the event Executive's employment
hereunder is terminated by the Company without cause pursuant to Section 5.1 or
by Executive pursuant to Section 5.5, then in addition to paying Executive the
Severance Amount and the Severance Benefits, the vesting of (i) the unvested
portion of any stock option to purchase Company common stock granted to
Executive ("Stock Options") and (ii) any shares of Company common stock granted
to Executive which is subject to forfeiture ("Restricted Stock"), shall be
accelerated and shall become fully vested and immediately exercisable and all
Stock Options shall be exercisable through the earlier of the expiration date of
the option provided for in the option grant agreement (without regard to
termination of employment)(the "Final Exercise Date") or 24 months following the
Termination date and, with respect to Restricted Stock, shall cease to be
subject to forfeiture. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in the case of
any Stock Options that are outstanding on the date of this Agreement, the
extension of the exercise period provided for in the preceding sentence shall
not extend the period during which such Stock Options may be exercised beyond
the date that is the later of the fifteenth day of the third month following the
date, or December 31 of the calendar year in which, the Stock Option would
otherwise have expired if the exercise period had not been extended based on the
terms of such options at the original grant date.

      5.3 By the Company For Cause. The Company may terminate Executive for
cause at any time, upon written notice to Executive. For purposes of this
Agreement, "cause" shall mean:

            (a) Executive's conviction for commission of a felony;

            (b) Executive's willful commission of any act of theft, embezzlement
or misappropriation against the Company;

            (c) Executive's willful and continued failure to substantially
perform Executive's duties hereunder (other than such failure resulting from
Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness), which failure is not
remedied within a reasonable time after written demand for substantial
performance is delivered by the Company which specifically identifies the manner
in which the Company believes that Executive has not substantially performed
Executive's duties; or

            (d) Executive's death or Disability (as hereinafter defined).

      In the event Executive is terminated for cause pursuant to this Section
5.3, Executive shall have the right to receive Executive's compensation as
otherwise provided under this Agreement through the effective date of
termination. Executive shall have no further right to receive compensation or
other consideration from the Company or have any other remedy whatsoever against
the Company as a result of this Agreement or the termination of Executive
pursuant to this Section 5.3, except as set forth below with respect to a
termination due to Executive's Disability.

      In the event Executive is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability,
the Company shall immediately pay Executive or his or her estate a single
severance payment equal to the Severance Amount. Said payment shall be in
addition to any life insurance or disability insurance payments to which
Executive or his or her estate is otherwise entitled and any other

                                       4

compensation earned by Executive hereunder. For purposes of this Agreement, the
term "Disability" shall mean death or (a) that the Executive is unable to engage
in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment that can be expect to result in death or can be
expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, (b) that
the Executive is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental
impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement
benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health
plan covering employees of the Company, or (c) that the Executive has been
determined to be totally disabled by the Social Security Administration.

      5.4 Executive's Voluntary Termination. Executive may, at any time,
terminate this Agreement upon written notice delivered to the Company at least
90 days prior to the effective date of termination. In the event of such
voluntary termination of this Agreement by Executive: (i) Executive shall have
the right to receive Executive's compensation as provided hereunder through the
effective date of termination; and (ii) the Company on the one hand, and
Executive, on the other hand, shall not have any further right or remedy against
one another except as provided in Sections 6, 7 and 8 hereof which shall remain
in full force and effect.

      5.5 Change of Control. Executive may terminate this Agreement, upon at
least 10 days' prior written notice to the Company at any time within one year
after a "change in control" (as hereinafter defined) of the Company. In the
event Executive terminates this Agreement within one year after a change in
control pursuant to this Section 5.5, (i) Executive shall continue to render
services pursuant hereto and shall continue to receive compensation, as provided
hereunder, through the termination date, (ii) the Company shall pay Executive no
later than the date of such termination, as a single severance payment, an
amount equal to the Severance Amount and (iii) following such termination, the
Company shall provide the Severance Benefits as required by Section 5.2(b). For
purposes of this Agreement, a "change in control" shall mean the occurrence of
any of the following events:

            (a) an acquisition of any voting securities of the Company (the
"Voting Securities") by any "person" (as the term "person" is used for purposes
of Section 13(d) or Section 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the "1934 Act")) immediately after which such person has "beneficial
ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) of
45% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding
Voting Securities; or

            (b) approval by the stockholders of the Company of:

                  (i) a merger, consolidation, share exchange or reorganization
of the Company, unless the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such
merger, consolidation, share exchange or reorganization, own, directly or
indirectly immediately following such merger, consolidation, share exchange or
reorganization, at least 51% of the combined voting power of the outstanding
voting securities of the corporation that is the successor in such merger,
consolidation, share exchange or reorganization (the "Surviving Company") in
substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Voting Securities
immediately before such merger, consolidation, share exchange or reorganization;
or

                                       5

(ii) a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or

                  (iii) an agreement for the sale or other disposition of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company.

      5.6 Required Delay. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the
contrary, if, at the time the Executive's employment is terminated, the
Executive is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section
409A(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code") and the
regulations thereunder, then any payments under this Agreement to the Executive
that constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of
Section 409A of the Code shall be delayed by a period of six months and (i) all
payments that would have been made to the Executive during such six month period
shall be made in a lump sum in the seventh month following the date of
termination and (ii) all remaining payments shall commence in the seventh month
following the date of termination.

6.    NON-SOLICITATION

      For a period of one year following the date Executive's employment
hereunder is terminated, Executive shall not solicit or induce any of the
Company's employees, agents or independent contractors to end their relationship
with the Company, or recruit, hire or otherwise induce any such person to
perform services for Executive, or any other person, firm or company. The
restrictions set forth in this Section 7 shall not apply if Executive's
employment is terminated pursuant to Section 5.1 or 5.5.

7.    NON-COMPETITION AFTER TERMINATION

      Executive agrees to be bound by the terms of the Confidential Information
and Non-Competition agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated
herein by reference.

8.    INDEMNIFICATION

      To the fullest extent permitted under applicable law, the Company shall
indemnify, defend and hold Executive harmless from and against any and all
causes of action, claims, demands, liabilities, damages, costs and expenses of
any nature whatsoever (collectively, "Damages") directly or indirectly arising
out of or relating to Executive discharging Executive's duties hereunder on
behalf of the Company, so long as Executive acted in good faith within the
course and scope of Executive's duties with respect to the matter giving rise to
the claim or Damages for which Executive seeks indemnification.

9.    GENERAL PROVISIONS

      9.1 Assignment; Binding Effect. Neither the Company nor Executive may
assign, delegate or otherwise transfer this Agreement or any of their respective
rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the other
party. Any attempted prohibited assignment or delegation shall be void. This
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any permitted
successors or assigns of the parties and the heirs, executors, administrators
and/or personal representatives of Executive.

                                       6

9.2 Notices. All notices, requests, demands and other communications that
are required or may be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall
be deemed to have been duly given where received if personally delivered; when
transmitted if transmitted by telecopy, electronic or digital transmission
method with electronic confirmation of receipt; the day after it is sent, if
sent for next-day delivery to a domestic address by recognized overnight
delivery service (e.g., FEDEX); and upon receipt, if sent by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested. In each case notice shall be sent to:

      If to the Company:     Boston Life Sciences, Inc.
                             85 Main Street
                             Hopkinton, MA 01748

                             Attention: Chief Executive Officer
                             Facsimile: 508-497-9664

      If to Executive:       Kenneth L. Rice Jr.

Any party may change its address for the purpose of this Section 9.2 by giving
the other party written notice of its new address in the manner set forth above.

      9.3 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of
the parties, and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and
negotiations, whether written or oral, between the Company and Executive with
respect to the employment of Executive by the Company.

      9.4 Amendments; Waivers. This Agreement may be amended or modified, and
any of the terms and covenants may be waived, only by a written instrument
executed by the parties hereto, or, in the case of a waiver, by the party
waiving compliance. Any waiver by any party in any one or more instances of any
term or covenant contained in this Agreement shall neither be deemed to be nor
construed as a further or continuing waiver of any such term or covenant of this
Agreement.

      9.5 Provision; Severable. In case any one or more provisions of this
Agreement shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the
validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained
herein shall not, in any way, be affected or impaired thereby. If any provision
hereof is determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
unenforceable by reason of such provision extending the covenants and agreements
contained herein for too great a period of time or over too great a geographical
area, or being too extensive in any other respect, such provision shall be
interpreted to extend only over the maximum period of time and geographical
area, and to the maximum extent in all other respects, as to which it is valid
and enforceable, all as determined by such court in such action.

                                       7

9.6 Attorneys' Fees. If any legal action, arbitration or other proceeding,
is brought for the enforcement of this Agreement, or because of an alleged
dispute, breach or default in connection with any of the provisions of this
Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable
attorneys' fees and other costs incurred in that action or proceeding, including
any appeal of such action or proceeding, in addition to any other relief to
which that party may be entitled.

      9.7 Section 409A. All payments and benefits provided under this Agreement
are intended to either comply with or be exempt from Section 409A of the Code
and this Agreement shall be administered and construed accordingly.

      9.8 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be construed, performed and
enforced in accordance with, and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware
without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws thereof.

      9.9 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall
constitute the same instrument.

                            [Signature Page Follows]

                                       8

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement
effective as of the date first written above.

THE COMPANY

BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.
a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Peter G. Savas
    -----------------------
    Peter G. Savas.
    Chief Executive Officer

EXECUTIVE

/s/ Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.
- ---------------------------
Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.

EXHIBIT A

              CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION AND NONCOMPETITION AGREEMENT

To: Boston Life Sciences, Inc.                           Date:

      The undersigned, in consideration of and as a condition of my employment
or continued employment by you and/or by companies that you own, control, or are
affiliated with or their successors in business (collectively, the "Company"),
hereby agrees as follows:

      1. Confidentiality. I agree to keep confidential, except as the Company
may otherwise consent in writing, and except for the Company's benefit, not to
disclose or make any use of at any time either during or subsequent to my
employment, any Inventions (as hereinafter defined), trade secrets, confidential
information, knowledge, data or other information of the Company relating to
products, franchises, processes, know-how, techniques, methods, designs,
formulas, test data, customer lists, business plans, marketing plans and
strategies, pricing strategies, or other subject matter pertaining to any
business of the Company or any of its affiliates, which I may produce, obtain,
or otherwise acquire during the course of my employment, except as herein
provided. I further agree not to deliver, reproduce or in any way allow any such
trade secrets, confidential information, knowledge, data or other information,
or any documentation relating thereto, to be delivered to or used by any third
parties without specific direction or consent of the Chairman of the Board or
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The provisions of this Section 1
shall not apply to such knowledge, data or other information that is generally
known to the public.

      2. Conflicting Employment; Return of Confidential Material. I agree that
during my employment with the Company I will not engage in any other employment,
occupation, consulting or other activity relating to the business in which the
Company is now or may hereafter become engaged, or which would otherwise
conflict with my obligations to the Company. In the event my employment with the
Company terminates for any reason whatsoever, I agree to promptly surrender and
deliver to the Company all trade secrets, confidential information, processes
and records, including, but not limited to, designs, formulae, test data,
customer lists, business plans and strategies, Inventions or other written
memoranda, materials, equipment, drawings, documents and data that I may obtain
or produce during the course of my employment, and I will not take with me any
description containing or pertaining to any confidential information, knowledge
or data of the Company that I may produce or obtain during the course of my
employment.

                                       10

3. Assignment of Inventions.

            3.1 I hereby acknowledge and agree that the Company is the owner of
all Inventions. In order to protect the Company's rights to such Inventions, by
executing this Agreement I hereby irrevocably assign to the Company all my
right, title and interest in and to all Inventions to the Company.

            3.2 For purposes of this Agreement, "Inventions" shall mean all
discoveries, processes, designs, technologies, methods, techniques, devices, or
improvements in any of the foregoing or other ideas, whether or not patentable
or copyrightable and whether or not reduced to practice, made or conceived by me
(whether solely or jointly with others) during the period of my employment with
the Company that relate to the actual or demonstrably anticipated business,
work, or research and development of the Company, or result from or are
suggested by any task assigned to me or any work performed by me for or on
behalf of the Company.

            3.3 Any discovery, process, design, method, technique, technology,
device, or improvement in any of the foregoing or other ideas, whether or not
patentable or copyrightable and whether or not reduced to practice, made or
conceived by me (whether solely or jointly with others) that I develop entirely
on my own time not using any of the Company's equipment, supplies, facilities,
or trade secret information ("Personal Invention") is excluded from this
Agreement provided such Personal Invention (a) does not relate to the actual or
demonstrably anticipated business, research and development of the Company, and
(b) does not result, directly or indirectly, from any work performed by me for
the Company.

      4. Disclosure of Inventions. I agree that in connection with any
Invention, I will promptly disclose such Invention to the Board of Directors of
the Company in order to permit the Company to enforce its property rights to
such Invention in accordance with this Agreement. My disclosure shall be
received in confidence by the Company. If the Company in good faith decides not
to use an Invention, it will advise me of same and the rights to such Invention
will revert to me within a reasonable period of time.

      5. Patents and Copyrights; Execution of Documents.

            5.1 Upon request, I agree to assist the Company or its nominee (at
its expense) during and at any time subsequent to my employment in every
reasonable way to obtain for its own benefit patents and copyrights for
Inventions in any and all countries. Such patents and copyrights shall be and
remain the sole and exclusive property of the Company or its nominee. I agree to
perform such lawful acts as the Company deems to be necessary to allow it to
exercise all right, title and interest in and to such patents and copyrights.

            5.2 In connection with this Agreement, I agree to execute,
acknowledge and deliver to the Company or its nominee upon request and at its
expense all documents, including assignments of title, patent or copyright
applications, assignments of such applications, assignments of patents or
copyrights upon issuance, as the Company may determine necessary or desirable to
protect the Company's or its nominee's interest in Inventions, and/or to use in

                                       11

obtaining patents or copyrights in any and all countries and to vest title
thereto in the Company or its nominee to any of the foregoing.

      6. Maintenance of Records. I agree to keep and maintain adequate and
current written records of all Inventions made by me (in the form of notes,
sketches, drawings, flowcharts, printouts, diskettes and other records as may be
specified by the Company), which records shall be available to and remain the
sole property of the Company at all times.

      7. Prior Inventions. It is understood that all Personal Inventions, if
any, whether patented or unpatented, which I made prior to my employment by the
Company, are excluded from this Agreement. To preclude any possible uncertainty,
I have set forth on Schedule A attached hereto a complete list of all of my
prior Personal Inventions, including numbers of all patents and patent
applications and a brief description of all unpatented Personal Inventions that
are not the property of a previous employer. I represent and covenant that the
list is complete and that, if no items are on the list, I have no such prior
Personal Inventions. I agree to notify the Company in writing before I make any
disclosure or perform any work on behalf of the Company that appears to threaten
or conflict with proprietary rights I claim in any Personal Invention. In the
event of my failure to give such notice, I agree that I will make no claim
against the Company with respect to any such Personal Invention.

      8. Other Obligations. I acknowledge that the Company from time to time may
have agreements with other persons, companies, entities, Governments or agencies
thereof, that impose obligations or restrictions on the Company regarding
Inventions made during the course of work thereunder or regarding the
confidential nature of such work. I agree to be bound by all such obligations
and restrictions and to take all actions necessary to discharge the Company's
obligations.

      9. Trade Secrets of Others. I represent that my performance of all the
terms of this Agreement and as an employee of the Company does not and will not
breach any agreement to keep confidential proprietary information, knowledge, or
data acquired by me in confidence or in trust prior to my employment with the
Company, and I will not disclose to the Company, or induce the Company to use,
any confidential or proprietary information or material belonging to any
previous employer or others. I agree not to enter into any agreement either
written or oral in conflict herewith.

      10. Post-Employment Activities.

            10.1 For a period of one (1) year after the termination, for any
reason, of my employment with the Company, absent the Company's prior written
approval, I will not directly or indirectly engage in activities similar or
reasonably related to those in which I shall have engaged for the Company during
the two years immediately preceding termination, nor render services similar or
reasonably related to those which I shall have rendered during such time to, any
person or entity whether existing or hereafter established that directly
competes with (or proposes or plans to directly compete with) the Company, or in
other areas where the Company carries on a substantial amount of business
("Direct Competitor"). In addition, I shall not entice,

                                       12

induce or encourage any of the Company's other employees to engage in any
activity that, were it done by me, would violate any provision of this
Agreement.

            10.2 No provision of this Agreement shall be construed to preclude
me from performing the same services that the Company retains me to perform for
any person or entity that is not a Direct Competitor of the Company upon the
termination of my employment (or any post-employment consultation) so long as I
do not thereby violate any term of this Agreement.

      11. Remedies. My obligations under this Agreement shall survive the
termination of my employment with the Company. I acknowledge that a remedy at
law for any breach or threatened breach by me of the provisions of this
Agreement would be inadequate and I therefore agree that the Company shall be
entitled to injunctive relief in case of any such breach or threatened breach.

      12. Modification. I agree that any subsequent change or changes in my
employment duties, salary or compensation or, if applicable, in any Employment
Agreement between the Company and me, shall not affect the validity or scope of
this Agreement.

      13. Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon my heirs,
executors, administrators or other legal representatives and is for the benefit
of the Company, its successors and assigns.

      14. Interpretation. IT IS THE INTENT OF THE PARTIES THAT in case any one
or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement shall, for any reason, be
held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity,
illegality or unenforceability shall not affect the other provisions of this
Agreement, and this Agreement shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or
unenforceable provision had never been contained herein. MOREOVER, IT IS THE
INTENT OF THE PARTIES THAT if any provision of this Agreement is or becomes or
is deemed invalid, illegal or unenforceable or in case any one or more of the
provisions contained in this Agreement shall for any reason be held to be
excessively broad as to duration, geographical scope, activity or subject, such
provision shall be construed by amending, limiting and/or reducing it to conform
to applicable laws so as to be valid and enforceable or, if it cannot be so
amended without materially altering the intention of the parties, it shall be
stricken and the remainder of this Agreement shall remain in full force and
effect.

      15. Waivers. No waiver of any right under this Agreement shall be deemed
effective unless contained in a writing signed by the party charged with such
waiver, and no waiver of any right arising from any breach or failure to perform
shall be deemed to be a waiver of any future such right or of any other right
arising under this Agreement. If either party should waive any breach of any
provision of this Agreement, he or it shall not thereby be deemed to have waived
any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other provision of this
Agreement.

      16. Complete Agreement, Amendments. The foregoing is the entire agreement
of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, superseding any
previous oral or written communications, representations, understandings, or
agreements with the Company or any officer or representative thereof. Any
amendment to this Agreement or waiver by the Company

                                       13

of any right hereunder shall be effective only if evidenced by a written
instrument executed by the parties hereto, upon authorization of the Company's
Board of Directors.

      17. Headings. The headings of the Sections contained in this Agreement are
inserted for convenience and reference only and in no way define, limit, extend
or describe the scope of this Agreement, or the intent of any provision hereof,
and shall not be deemed to constitute a part hereof nor to affect the meaning of
this Agreement in any way.

      18. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the internal laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
excluding its conflict of law principles.

      19. Notices. All notices, requests, demands and communications which are
or may be required to be given hereunder shall be deemed effectively given if
and when sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage
prepaid, to the following addresses:

          If to the Company:

          If to Employee:

      21. Conflicts. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this
agreement and the provisions of the Employment Agreement, the provisions of the
Employment Agreement will govern.

                                                    Very truly yours,

Agreed:
Boston Life Sciences, Inc.

By: _____________________________

                                       14

</EX-10.50>

<EX-10.51>
 8
 b58962blexv10w51.txt
 EX-10.51 STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 1/6/06 - SAVAS

Exhibit 10.51

                           BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

                       NONSTATUTORY STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
                     GRANTED UNDER 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

1.    Grant of Option.

      This agreement evidences the grant by Boston Life Sciences, Inc., a
Delaware corporation (the "Company"), on January 6, 2006 (the "Grant Date") to
Peter G. Savas, a director and executive officer of the Company (the
"Participant"), of an option to purchase, in whole or in part, on the terms
provided herein and in the Company's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), a
total of 350,000 shares (the "Shares") of common stock, $0.01 par value per
share, of the Company ("Common Stock") at $2.50 per Share. Unless earlier
terminated, this option shall expire at 5:00 p.m., Eastern time, on January 5,
2016 (the "Final Exercise Date").

      It is intended that the option evidenced by this agreement shall not be an
incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Code").
Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the term "Participant", as used in
this option, shall be deemed to include any person who acquires the right to
exercise this option validly under its terms.

2.    Vesting Schedule.

      This option will become exercisable ("vest") in 96 equal monthly
installments, provided that the Participant remains an executive officer of the
Company. Additionally, these options are subject to acceleration upon
achievement of the following product development milestones: (i) one-third of
the outstanding portion of the foregoing options will accelerate and vest upon
completion of the Company's POET-1 clinical trial for ALTROPANE; (ii) one-third
of the outstanding portion of the foregoing options will accelerate and vest
upon the earlier of the Company's submission of a New Drug Application for
ALTROPANE with the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") or the initiation of the
Company's POET-2 clinical trial for ALTROPANE; and (iii) one-third of the
outstanding portion of the foregoing options will immediately accelerate and
vest upon the earlier of the successful achievement of a partnership arrangement
with respect to ALTROPANE or the FDA's approval of a New Drug Application for
ALTROPANE.

      The right of exercise shall be cumulative so that to the extent the option
is not exercised in any period to the maximum extent permissible it shall
continue to be exercisable, in whole or in part, with respect to all Shares for
which it is vested until the earlier of the Final Exercise Date or the
termination of this option under Section 3 hereof or the Plan.

3.    Exercise of Option.

      (a) Form of Exercise. Each election to exercise this option shall be by
written notice in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, signed by the
Participant, and received by the Company at its principal office, accompanied by
this agreement, and payment in full in the manner

provided in the Plan. The Participant may purchase less than the number of
shares covered hereby, provided that no partial exercise of this option may be
for any fractional share.

      (b) Continuous Relationship with the Company Required. Except as otherwise
provided in this Section 3, this option may not be exercised unless the
Participant, at the time he or she exercises this option, is, and has been at
all times since the Grant Date, an employee, officer or director of, or
consultant or advisor to, the Company or any other entity the employees,
officers, directors, consultants, or advisors of which are eligible to receive
option grants under the Plan (an "Eligible Participant").

      (c) Termination of Relationship with the Company. If the Participant
ceases to be an Eligible Participant for any reason, then, except as provided in
paragraphs (d) and (e) below, the right to exercise this option shall terminate
three months after such cessation (but in no event after the Final Exercise
Date), provided that this option shall be exercisable only to the extent that
the Participant was entitled to exercise this option on the date of such
cessation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant, prior to the Final
Exercise Date, violates the non-competition or confidentiality provisions of any
employment contract, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreement or other
agreement between the Participant and the Company, the right to exercise this
option shall terminate immediately upon written notice to the Participant from
the Company describing such violation.

      (d) Exercise Period Upon Death or Disability. If the Participant dies or
becomes disabled (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code) prior to
the Final Exercise Date while he or she is an Eligible Participant and the
Company has not terminated such relationship for "cause" as specified in
paragraph (e) below, this option shall be exercisable, within the period of one
year following the date of death or disability of the Participant, by the
Participant (or in the case of death by an authorized transferee), provided that
this option shall be exercisable only to the extent that this option was
exercisable by the Participant on the date of his or her death or disability,
and further provided that this option shall not be exercisable after the Final
Exercise Date.

      (e) Discharge for Cause. If the Participant, prior to the Final Exercise
Date, is discharged by the Company for "cause" (as defined below), the right to
exercise this option shall terminate immediately upon the effective date of such
discharge. "Cause" shall mean willful misconduct by the Participant or willful
failure by the Participant to perform his or her responsibilities to the Company
(including, without limitation, breach by the Participant of any provision of
any employment, consulting, advisory, nondisclosure, non-competition or other
similar agreement between the Participant and the Company), as determined by the
Company, which determination shall be conclusive. The Participant shall be
considered to have been discharged for "Cause" if the Company determines, within
30 days after the Participant's resignation, that discharge for cause was
warranted.

4.    Withholding.

      No Shares will be issued pursuant to the exercise of this option unless
and until the Participant pays to the Company, or makes provision satisfactory
to the Company for payment

                                      -2-

of, any federal, state or local withholding taxes required by law to be withheld
in respect of this option.

5.    Nontransferability of Option.

      This option may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise
encumbered by the Participant, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except
by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and, during the lifetime of the
Participant, this option shall be exercisable only by the Participant.

6.    Provisions of the Plan.

      This option is subject to the provisions of the Plan, a copy of which is
furnished to the Participant with this option.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this option to be executed
under its corporate seal by its duly authorized officer. This option shall take
effect as a sealed instrument.

                            BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

Dated: January 6, 2006      By: /s/ Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.
                                ------------------------
                                  Name: Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.
                                  Title: Executive Vice President Finance and
                                         Administration and CFO

                                      -3-

PARTICIPANT'S ACCEPTANCE

      The undersigned hereby accepts the foregoing option and agrees to the
terms and conditions thereof. The undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt of a
copy of the Company's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.

                                           PARTICIPANT: /s/ Peter G. Savas
                                                        ------------------

                                      -4-

EXHIBIT A

                         NOTICE OF STOCK OPTION EXERCISE

                                                        Date: __________________

Participant name and address:

__________________________
__________________________
__________________________

Attention: Treasurer

Dear Sir or Madam:

      I am the holder of an Nonstatutory Stock Option granted to me under the
Boston Life Sciences, Inc. (the "Company") 2005 Stock Incentive Plan on
__________ for the purchase of __________ shares of Common Stock of the Company
at a purchase price of $__________ per share.

      I hereby exercise my option to purchase _________ shares of Common Stock
(the "Shares"), for which I have enclosed __________ in the amount of $________.
Please register my stock certificate as follows:

                                                (check applicable box)

      Name(s):    _______________________       (theeta)  TEN COM

                  _______________________       (theeta)  TEN ENT

      Address:    _______________________       (theeta)  JT TEN

      Tax I.D. #: _______________________       (theeta)  UNIF GIFT MIN ACT

      I represent, warrant and covenant as follows:

1. I am purchasing the Shares for my own account for investment only, and not
with a view to, or for sale in connection with, any distribution of the Shares
in violation of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"), or any rule
or regulation under the Securities Act.

2. I have had such opportunity as I have deemed adequate to obtain from
representatives of the Company such information as is necessary to permit me to
evaluate the merits and risks of my investment in the Company.

3. I have sufficient experience in business, financial and investment matters to
be able to evaluate the risks involved in the purchase of the Shares and to make
an informed investment decision with respect to such purchase.

4. I can afford a complete loss of the value of the Shares and am able to bear
the economic risk of holding such Shares for an indefinite period.

5. I understand that (i) the Shares have not been registered under the
Securities Act and are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144
under the Securities Act, (ii) the Shares cannot be sold, transferred or
otherwise disposed of unless they are subsequently registered under the
Securities Act or an exemption from registration is then available; (iii) in any
event, the exemption from registration under Rule 144 will not be available for
at least one year and even then will not be available unless a public market
then exists for the Common Stock, adequate information concerning the Company is
then available to the public, and other terms and conditions of Rule 144 are
complied with; and (iv) there is now no registration statement on file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to any stock of the Company and
the Company has no obligation or current intention to register the Shares under
the Securities Act.

Very truly yours,

_______________________
(Signature)

                                      -6-

</EX-10.51>

<EX-10.52>
 9
 b58962blexv10w52.txt
 EX-10.52 STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 1/6/06 - PYKETT

Exhibit 10.52

                           BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

                       NONSTATUTORY STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
                     GRANTED UNDER 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

1. Grant of Option.

      This agreement evidences the grant by Boston Life Sciences, Inc., a
Delaware corporation (the "Company"), on January 6, 2006 (the "Grant Date") to
Mark J. Pykett, an executive officer of the Company (the "Participant"), of an
option to purchase, in whole or in part, on the terms provided herein and in the
Company's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), a total of 225,000 shares (the
"Shares") of common stock, $0.01 par value per share, of the Company ("Common
Stock") at $2.50 per Share. Unless earlier terminated, this option shall expire
at 5:00 p.m., Eastern time, on January 5, 2016 (the "Final Exercise Date").

      It is intended that the option evidenced by this agreement shall not be an
incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Code").
Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the term "Participant", as used in
this option, shall be deemed to include any person who acquires the right to
exercise this option validly under its terms.

2. Vesting Schedule.

      This option will become exercisable ("vest") in 96 equal monthly
installments, provided that the Participant remains an executive officer of the
Company. Additionally, these options are subject to acceleration upon
achievement of the following product development milestones: (i) one-third of
the outstanding portion of the foregoing options will accelerate and vest upon
completion of the Company's POET-1 clinical trial for ALTROPANE; (ii) one-third
of the outstanding portion of the foregoing options will accelerate and vest
upon the earlier of the Company's submission of a New Drug Application for
ALTROPANE with the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") or the initiation of the
Company's POET-2 clinical trial for ALTROPANE; and (iii) one-third of the
outstanding portion of the foregoing options will immediately accelerate and
vest upon the earlier of the successful achievement of a partnership arrangement
with respect to ALTROPANE or the FDA's approval of a New Drug Application for
ALTROPANE.

      The right of exercise shall be cumulative so that to the extent the option
is not exercised in any period to the maximum extent permissible it shall
continue to be exercisable, in whole or in part, with respect to all Shares for
which it is vested until the earlier of the Final Exercise Date or the
termination of this option under Section 3 hereof or the Plan.

3. Exercise of Option.

      (a) Form of Exercise. Each election to exercise this option shall be by
written notice in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, signed by the
Participant, and received by the Company at its principal office, accompanied by
this agreement, and payment in full in the manner

provided in the Plan. The Participant may purchase less than the number of
shares covered hereby, provided that no partial exercise of this option may be
for any fractional share.

      (b) Continuous Relationship with the Company Required. Except as otherwise
provided in this Section 3, this option may not be exercised unless the
Participant, at the time he or she exercises this option, is, and has been at
all times since the Grant Date, an employee, officer or director of, or
consultant or advisor to, the Company or any other entity the employees,
officers, directors, consultants, or advisors of which are eligible to receive
option grants under the Plan (an "Eligible Participant").

      (c) Termination of Relationship with the Company. If the Participant
ceases to be an Eligible Participant for any reason, then, except as provided in
paragraphs (d) and (e) below, the right to exercise this option shall terminate
three months after such cessation (but in no event after the Final Exercise
Date), provided that this option shall be exercisable only to the extent that
the Participant was entitled to exercise this option on the date of such
cessation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant, prior to the Final
Exercise Date, violates the non-competition or confidentiality provisions of any
employment contract, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreement or other
agreement between the Participant and the Company, the right to exercise this
option shall terminate immediately upon written notice to the Participant from
the Company describing such violation.

      (d) Exercise Period Upon Death or Disability. If the Participant dies or
becomes disabled (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code) prior to
the Final Exercise Date while he or she is an Eligible Participant and the
Company has not terminated such relationship for "cause" as specified in
paragraph (e) below, this option shall be exercisable, within the period of one
year following the date of death or disability of the Participant, by the
Participant (or in the case of death by an authorized transferee), provided that
this option shall be exercisable only to the extent that this option was
exercisable by the Participant on the date of his or her death or disability,
and further provided that this option shall not be exercisable after the Final
Exercise Date.

      (e) Discharge for Cause. If the Participant, prior to the Final Exercise
Date, is discharged by the Company for "cause" (as defined below), the right to
exercise this option shall terminate immediately upon the effective date of such
discharge. "Cause" shall mean willful misconduct by the Participant or willful
failure by the Participant to perform his or her responsibilities to the Company
(including, without limitation, breach by the Participant of any provision of
any employment, consulting, advisory, nondisclosure, non-competition or other
similar agreement between the Participant and the Company), as determined by the
Company, which determination shall be conclusive. The Participant shall be
considered to have been discharged for "Cause" if the Company determines, within
30 days after the Participant's resignation, that discharge for cause was
warranted.

4. Withholding.

      No Shares will be issued pursuant to the exercise of this option unless
and until the Participant pays to the Company, or makes provision satisfactory
to the Company for payment

                                      -2-

of, any federal, state or local withholding taxes required by law to be withheld
in respect of this option.

5. Nontransferability of Option.

      This option may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise
encumbered by the Participant, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except
by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and, during the lifetime of the
Participant, this option shall be exercisable only by the Participant.

6. Provisions of the Plan.

      This option is subject to the provisions of the Plan, a copy of which is
furnished to the Participant with this option.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this option to be executed
under its corporate seal by its duly authorized officer. This option shall take
effect as a sealed instrument.

                             BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

Dated: January 6, 2006       By: /s/ Peter G. Savas
                                 ------------------
                                     Name:  Peter G. Savas
                                     Title: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

                                      -3-

PARTICIPANT'S ACCEPTANCE

      The undersigned hereby accepts the foregoing option and agrees to the
terms and conditions thereof. The undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt of a
copy of the Company's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.

                                 PARTICIPANT: /s/ Mark J. Pykett
                                              --------------------------

                                      -4-

EXHIBIT A

                         NOTICE OF STOCK OPTION EXERCISE

                                                                Date:__________

Participant name and address:

_________________________
_________________________
_________________________

Attention:  Treasurer

Dear Sir or Madam:

      I am the holder of an Nonstatutory Stock Option granted to me under the
Boston Life Sciences, Inc. (the "Company") 2005 Stock Incentive Plan on
__________ for the purchase of __________ shares of Common Stock of the Company
at a purchase price of $__________ per share.

      I hereby exercise my option to purchase _________ shares of Common Stock
(the "Shares"), for which I have enclosed __________ in the amount of $________.
Please register my stock certificate as follows:

                                                     (check applicable box)

      Name(s):            _______________________    theeta   TEN COM

                          _______________________    theeta   TEN ENT

      Address:            _______________________    theeta   JT TEN

      Tax I.D. #:         _______________________    theeta   UNIF GIFT MIN ACT

      I represent, warrant and covenant as follows:

1. I am purchasing the Shares for my own account for investment only, and not
with a view to, or for sale in connection with, any distribution of the Shares
in violation of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"), or any rule
or regulation under the Securities Act.

2. I have had such opportunity as I have deemed adequate to obtain from
representatives of the Company such information as is necessary to permit me to
evaluate the merits and risks of my investment in the Company.

3. I have sufficient experience in business, financial and investment matters to
be able to evaluate the risks involved in the purchase of the Shares and to make
an informed investment decision with respect to such purchase.

4. I can afford a complete loss of the value of the Shares and am able to bear
the economic risk of holding such Shares for an indefinite period.

5. I understand that (i) the Shares have not been registered under the
Securities Act and are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144
under the Securities Act, (ii) the Shares cannot be sold, transferred or
otherwise disposed of unless they are subsequently registered under the
Securities Act or an exemption from registration is then available; (iii) in any
event, the exemption from registration under Rule 144 will not be available for
at least one year and even then will not be available unless a public market
then exists for the Common Stock, adequate information concerning the Company is
then available to the public, and other terms and conditions of Rule 144 are
complied with; and (iv) there is now no registration statement on file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to any stock of the Company and
the Company has no obligation or current intention to register the Shares under
the Securities Act.

Very truly yours,

____________________________
(Signature)

                                       -6-

</EX-10.52>

<EX-10.53>
 10
 b58962blexv10w53.txt
 EX-10.53 STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 1/6/06 - RICE

Exhibit 10.53

                           BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

                       NONSTATUTORY STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
                     GRANTED UNDER 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

1. Grant of Option.

      This agreement evidences the grant by Boston Life Sciences, Inc., a
Delaware corporation (the "Company"), on January 6, 2006 (the "Grant Date") to
Kenneth L. Rice, Jr., an executive officer of the Company (the "Participant"),
of an option to purchase, in whole or in part, on the terms provided herein and
in the Company's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), a total of 225,000
shares (the "Shares") of common stock, $0.01 par value per share, of the Company
("Common Stock") at $2.50 per Share. Unless earlier terminated, this option
shall expire at 5:00 p.m., Eastern time, on January 5, 2016 (the "Final Exercise
Date").

      It is intended that the option evidenced by this agreement shall not be an
incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Code").
Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the term "Participant", as used in
this option, shall be deemed to include any person who acquires the right to
exercise this option validly under its terms.

2. Vesting Schedule.

      This option will become exercisable ("vest") in 96 equal monthly
installments, provided that the Participant remains an executive officer of the
Company. Additionally, these options are subject to acceleration upon
achievement of the following product development milestones: (i) one-third of
the outstanding portion of the foregoing options will accelerate and vest upon
completion of the Company's POET-1 clinical trial for ALTROPANE; (ii) one-third
of the outstanding portion of the foregoing options will accelerate and vest
upon the earlier of the Company's submission of a New Drug Application for
ALTROPANE with the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") or the initiation of the
Company's POET-2 clinical trial for ALTROPANE; and (iii) one-third of the
outstanding portion of the foregoing options will immediately accelerate and
vest upon the earlier of the successful achievement of a partnership arrangement
with respect to ALTROPANE or the FDA's approval of a New Drug Application for
ALTROPANE.

      The right of exercise shall be cumulative so that to the extent the option
is not exercised in any period to the maximum extent permissible it shall
continue to be exercisable, in whole or in part, with respect to all Shares for
which it is vested until the earlier of the Final Exercise Date or the
termination of this option under Section 3 hereof or the Plan.

3. Exercise of Option.

      (a) Form of Exercise. Each election to exercise this option shall be by
written notice in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, signed by the
Participant, and received by the Company at its principal office, accompanied by
this agreement, and payment in full in the manner

provided in the Plan. The Participant may purchase less than the number of
shares covered hereby, provided that no partial exercise of this option may be
for any fractional share.

      (b) Continuous Relationship with the Company Required. Except as otherwise
provided in this Section 3, this option may not be exercised unless the
Participant, at the time he or she exercises this option, is, and has been at
all times since the Grant Date, an employee, officer or director of, or
consultant or advisor to, the Company or any other entity the employees,
officers, directors, consultants, or advisors of which are eligible to receive
option grants under the Plan (an "Eligible Participant").

      (c) Termination of Relationship with the Company. If the Participant
ceases to be an Eligible Participant for any reason, then, except as provided in
paragraphs (d) and (e) below, the right to exercise this option shall terminate
three months after such cessation (but in no event after the Final Exercise
Date), provided that this option shall be exercisable only to the extent that
the Participant was entitled to exercise this option on the date of such
cessation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant, prior to the Final
Exercise Date, violates the non-competition or confidentiality provisions of any
employment contract, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreement or other
agreement between the Participant and the Company, the right to exercise this
option shall terminate immediately upon written notice to the Participant from
the Company describing such violation.

      (d) Exercise Period Upon Death or Disability. If the Participant dies or
becomes disabled (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code) prior to
the Final Exercise Date while he or she is an Eligible Participant and the
Company has not terminated such relationship for "cause" as specified in
paragraph (e) below, this option shall be exercisable, within the period of one
year following the date of death or disability of the Participant, by the
Participant (or in the case of death by an authorized transferee), provided that
this option shall be exercisable only to the extent that this option was
exercisable by the Participant on the date of his or her death or disability,
and further provided that this option shall not be exercisable after the Final
Exercise Date.

      (e) Discharge for Cause. If the Participant, prior to the Final Exercise
Date, is discharged by the Company for "cause" (as defined below), the right to
exercise this option shall terminate immediately upon the effective date of such
discharge. "Cause" shall mean willful misconduct by the Participant or willful
failure by the Participant to perform his or her responsibilities to the Company
(including, without limitation, breach by the Participant of any provision of
any employment, consulting, advisory, nondisclosure, non-competition or other
similar agreement between the Participant and the Company), as determined by the
Company, which determination shall be conclusive. The Participant shall be
considered to have been discharged for "Cause" if the Company determines, within
30 days after the Participant's resignation, that discharge for cause was
warranted.

4. Withholding.

      No Shares will be issued pursuant to the exercise of this option unless
and until the Participant pays to the Company, or makes provision satisfactory
to the Company for payment

                                      -2-

of, any federal, state or local withholding taxes required by law to be withheld
in respect of this option.

5. Nontransferability of Option.

      This option may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise
encumbered by the Participant, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except
by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and, during the lifetime of the
Participant, this option shall be exercisable only by the Participant.

6. Provisions of the Plan.

      This option is subject to the provisions of the Plan, a copy of which is
furnished to the Participant with this option.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this option to be executed
under its corporate seal by its duly authorized officer. This option shall take
effect as a sealed instrument.

                             BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

Dated: January 6, 2006       By: /s/ Peter G. Savas
                                 ------------------
                                     Name:  Peter G. Savas
                                     Title: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

                                      -3-

PARTICIPANT'S ACCEPTANCE

      The undersigned hereby accepts the foregoing option and agrees to the
terms and conditions thereof. The undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt of a
copy of the Company's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.

                                     PARTICIPANT: /s/ Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.
                                                  -----------------------------

                                      -4-

EXHIBIT A

                         NOTICE OF STOCK OPTION EXERCISE

                                                                 Date:__________

Participant name and address:

________________________
________________________
________________________

Attention:  Treasurer

Dear Sir or Madam:

      I am the holder of an Nonstatutory Stock Option granted to me under the
Boston Life Sciences, Inc. (the "Company") 2005 Stock Incentive Plan on
__________ for the purchase of __________ shares of Common Stock of the Company
at a purchase price of $__________ per share.

      I hereby exercise my option to purchase _________ shares of Common Stock
(the "Shares"), for which I have enclosed __________ in the amount of $________.
Please register my stock certificate as follows:

                                                     (check applicable box)

      Name(s):            _______________________    theeta   TEN COM

                          _______________________    theeta   TEN ENT

      Address:            _______________________    theeta   JT TEN

      Tax I.D. #:         _______________________    theeta   UNIF GIFT MIN ACT

      I represent, warrant and covenant as follows:

1. I am purchasing the Shares for my own account for investment only, and not
with a view to, or for sale in connection with, any distribution of the Shares
in violation of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"), or any rule
or regulation under the Securities Act.

2. I have had such opportunity as I have deemed adequate to obtain from
representatives of the Company such information as is necessary to permit me to
evaluate the merits and risks of my investment in the Company.

3. I have sufficient experience in business, financial and investment matters to
be able to evaluate the risks involved in the purchase of the Shares and to make
an informed investment decision with respect to such purchase.

4. I can afford a complete loss of the value of the Shares and am able to bear
the economic risk of holding such Shares for an indefinite period.

5. I understand that (i) the Shares have not been registered under the
Securities Act and are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144
under the Securities Act, (ii) the Shares cannot be sold, transferred or
otherwise disposed of unless they are subsequently registered under the
Securities Act or an exemption from registration is then available; (iii) in any
event, the exemption from registration under Rule 144 will not be available for
at least one year and even then will not be available unless a public market
then exists for the Common Stock, adequate information concerning the Company is
then available to the public, and other terms and conditions of Rule 144 are
complied with; and (iv) there is now no registration statement on file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to any stock of the Company and
the Company has no obligation or current intention to register the Shares under
the Securities Act.

Very truly yours,

_________________________________
(Signature)

                                      -6-

</EX-10.53>

<EX-10.54>
 11
 b58962blexv10w54.txt
 EX-10.54 FORM OF INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION

Exhibit 10.54

                           BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

                        INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
                     GRANTED UNDER 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

1. Grant of Option.

      This agreement evidences the grant by Boston Life Sciences, Inc., a
Delaware corporation (the "Company"), on [      ], 200[ ] (the "Grant Date") to
[   ], an employee of the Company (the "Participant"), of an option to purchase,
in whole or in part, on the terms provided herein and in the Company's 2005
Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), a total of [     ] shares (the "Shares") of
common stock, $0.01 par value per share, of the Company ("Common Stock") at
$[    ] per Share. Unless earlier terminated, this option shall expire at 5:00
p.m., Eastern time, on [     ] (the "Final Exercise Date").

      It is intended that the option evidenced by this agreement shall be an
incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Code").
Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the term "Participant", as used in
this option, shall be deemed to include any person who acquires the right to
exercise this option validly under its terms.

2. Vesting Schedule.

      This option will become exercisable ("vest") immediately as to [ ]% of the
original number of Shares on the Grant Date with the remaining [ ]% of the
original number of Shares vesting in equal monthly installments over [ ] years.

      The right of exercise shall be cumulative so that to the extent the option
is not exercised in any period to the maximum extent permissible it shall
continue to be exercisable, in whole or in part, with respect to all Shares for
which it is vested until the earlier of the Final Exercise Date or the
termination of this option under Section 3 hereof or the Plan.

3. Exercise of Option.

      (a) Form of Exercise. Each election to exercise this option shall be by
written notice in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, in writing, signed by
the Participant, and received by the Company at its principal office,
accompanied by this agreement, and payment in full in the manner provided in the
Plan. The Participant may purchase less than the number of shares covered
hereby, provided that no partial exercise of this option may be for any
fractional share.

      (b) Continuous Relationship with the Company Required. Except as otherwise
provided in this Section 3, this option may not be exercised unless the
Participant, at the time he or she exercises this option, is, and has been at
all times since the Grant Date, an employee or officer of, or consultant or
advisor to, the Company or any parent or subsidiary of the Company as defined in
Section 424(e) or (f) of the Code (an "Eligible Participant").

(c) Termination of Relationship with the Company. If the Participant
ceases to be an Eligible Participant for any reason, then, except as provided in
paragraphs (d) and (e) below, the right to exercise this option shall terminate
three months after such cessation (but in no event after the Final Exercise
Date), provided that this option shall be exercisable only to the extent that
the Participant was entitled to exercise this option on the date of such
cessation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant, prior to the Final
Exercise Date, violates the non-competition or confidentiality provisions of any
employment contract, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreement or other
agreement between the Participant and the Company, the right to exercise this
option shall terminate immediately upon written notice to the Participant from
the Company describing such violation.

      (d) Exercise Period Upon Death or Disability. If the Participant dies or
becomes disabled (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code) prior to
the Final Exercise Date while he or she is an Eligible Participant and the
Company has not terminated such relationship for "cause" as specified in
paragraph (e) below, this option shall be exercisable, within the period of one
year following the date of death or disability of the Participant, by the
Participant (or in the case of death by an authorized transferee), provided that
this option shall be exercisable only to the extent that this option was
exercisable by the Participant on the date of his or her death or disability,
and further provided that this option shall not be exercisable after the Final
Exercise Date.

      (e) Discharge for Cause. If the Participant, prior to the Final Exercise
Date, is discharged by the Company for "cause" (as defined below), the right to
exercise this option shall terminate immediately upon the effective date of such
discharge. "Cause" shall mean willful misconduct by the Participant or willful
failure by the Participant to perform his or her responsibilities to the Company
(including, without limitation, breach by the Participant of any provision of
any employment, consulting, advisory, nondisclosure, non-competition or other
similar agreement between the Participant and the Company), as determined by the
Company, which determination shall be conclusive. The Participant shall be
considered to have been discharged for "Cause" if the Company determines, within
30 days after the Participant's resignation, that discharge for cause was
warranted.

4. Tax Matters.

      (a) Withholding. No Shares will be issued pursuant to the exercise of this
option unless and until the Participant pays to the Company, or makes provision
satisfactory to the Company for payment of, any federal, state or local
withholding taxes required by law to be withheld in respect of this option.

      (b) Disqualifying Disposition. If the Participant disposes of Shares
acquired upon exercise of this option within two years from the Grant Date or
one year after such Shares were acquired pursuant to exercise of this option,
the Participant shall notify the Company in writing of such disposition.

5. Nontransferability of Option.

      This option may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise
encumbered by the Participant, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except
by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and, during the lifetime of the
Participant, this option shall be exercisable only by the Participant.

6. Provisions of the Plan.

      This option is subject to the provisions of the Plan, a copy of which is
furnished to the Participant with this option.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this option to be executed
under its corporate seal by its duly authorized officer. This option shall take
effect as a sealed instrument.

                                 BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

Dated: _________                 By: ____________________________________

                                     Name:  __________________________
                                     Title: __________________________

PARTICIPANT'S ACCEPTANCE

      The undersigned hereby accepts the foregoing option and agrees to the
terms and conditions thereof. The undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt of a
copy of the Company's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.

                                 PARTICIPANT:

                                 _____________________________________

                                 Address: ____________________________

                                          ____________________________

EXHIBIT A

                         NOTICE OF STOCK OPTION EXERCISE

                                                                  Date:_________

Participant name and address:

_________________________
_________________________
_________________________

Attention:  Treasurer

Dear Sir or Madam:

      I am the holder of an Incentive Stock Option granted to me under the
Boston Life Sciences, Inc. (the "Company") 2005 Stock Incentive Plan on
__________ for the purchase of __________ shares of Common Stock of the Company
at a purchase price of $__________ per share.

      I hereby exercise my option to purchase _________ shares of Common Stock
(the "Shares"), for which I have enclosed __________ in the amount of $________.
Please register my stock certificate as follows:

                                                      (check applicable box)

      Name(s):            _______________________     theeta   TEN COM

                          _______________________     theeta   TEN ENT

      Address:            _______________________     theeta   JT TEN

      Tax I.D. #:         _______________________     theeta   UNIF GIFT MIN ACT

      I represent, warrant and covenant as follows:

1. I am purchasing the Shares for my own account for investment only, and not
with a view to, or for sale in connection with, any distribution of the Shares
in violation of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"), or any rule
or regulation under the Securities Act.

2. I have had such opportunity as I have deemed adequate to obtain from
representatives of the Company such information as is necessary to permit me to
evaluate the merits and risks of my investment in the Company.

3. I have sufficient experience in business, financial and investment matters to
be able to evaluate the risks involved in the purchase of the Shares and to make
an informed investment decision with respect to such purchase.

4. I can afford a complete loss of the value of the Shares and am able to bear
the economic risk of holding such Shares for an indefinite period.

5. I understand that (i) the Shares have not been registered under the
Securities Act and are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144
under the Securities Act, (ii) the Shares cannot be sold, transferred or
otherwise disposed of unless they are subsequently registered under the
Securities Act or an exemption from registration is then available; (iii) in any
event, the exemption from registration under Rule 144 will not be available for
at least one year and even then will not be available unless a public market
then exists for the Common Stock, adequate information concerning the Company is
then available to the public, and other terms and conditions of Rule 144 are
complied with; and (iv) there is now no registration statement on file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to any stock of the Company and
the Company has no obligation or current intention to register the Shares under
the Securities Act.

Very truly yours,

_________________________________
(Signature)

</EX-10.54>

<EX-10.55>
 12
 b58962blexv10w55.txt
 EX-10.55 FORM OF NON-STATUTORY STOCK OPTION

Exhibit 10.55

                           BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

                       NONSTATUTORY STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
                     GRANTED UNDER 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

1. Grant of Option.

      This agreement evidences the grant by Boston Life Sciences, Inc., a
Delaware corporation (the "Company"), on [      ], 200[ ] (the "Grant Date") to
[    ], an [employee]/[consultant]/[director] of the Company (the
"Participant"), of an option to purchase, in whole or in part, on the terms
provided herein and in the Company's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), a
total of [     ] shares (the "Shares") of common stock, $0.01 par value per
share, of the Company ("Common Stock") at $[ ] per Share. Unless earlier
terminated, this option shall expire at 5:00 p.m., Eastern time, on [     ] (the
"Final Exercise Date").

      It is intended that the option evidenced by this agreement shall not be an
incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Code").
Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the term "Participant", as used in
this option, shall be deemed to include any person who acquires the right to
exercise this option validly under its terms.

2. Vesting Schedule.

      This option will become exercisable ("vest") immediately as to [ ]% of the
original number of Shares on the Grant Date with the remaining [ ]% of the
original number of Shares vesting in equal monthly installments over [ ] years.

      The right of exercise shall be cumulative so that to the extent the option
is not exercised in any period to the maximum extent permissible it shall
continue to be exercisable, in whole or in part, with respect to all Shares for
which it is vested until the earlier of the Final Exercise Date or the
termination of this option under Section 3 hereof or the Plan.

3. Exercise of Option.

      (a) Form of Exercise. Each election to exercise this option shall be by
written notice in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, signed by the
Participant, and received by the Company at its principal office, accompanied by
this agreement, and payment in full in the manner provided in the Plan. The
Participant may purchase less than the number of shares covered hereby, provided
that no partial exercise of this option may be for any fractional share.

      (b) Continuous Relationship with the Company Required. Except as otherwise
provided in this Section 3, this option may not be exercised unless the
Participant, at the time he or she exercises this option, is, and has been at
all times since the Grant Date, an employee, officer or director of, or
consultant or advisor to, the Company or any other entity the employees,
officers, directors, consultants, or advisors of which are eligible to receive
option grants under the Plan (an "Eligible Participant").

(c) Termination of Relationship with the Company. If the Participant
ceases to be an Eligible Participant for any reason, then, except as provided in
paragraphs (d) and (e) below, the right to exercise this option shall terminate
three months after such cessation (but in no event after the Final Exercise
Date), provided that this option shall be exercisable only to the extent that
the Participant was entitled to exercise this option on the date of such
cessation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant, prior to the Final
Exercise Date, violates the non-competition or confidentiality provisions of any
employment contract, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreement or other
agreement between the Participant and the Company, the right to exercise this
option shall terminate immediately upon written notice to the Participant from
the Company describing such violation.

      (d) Exercise Period Upon Death or Disability. If the Participant dies or
becomes disabled (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code) prior to
the Final Exercise Date while he or she is an Eligible Participant and the
Company has not terminated such relationship for "cause" as specified in
paragraph (e) below, this option shall be exercisable, within the period of one
year following the date of death or disability of the Participant, by the
Participant (or in the case of death by an authorized transferee), provided that
this option shall be exercisable only to the extent that this option was
exercisable by the Participant on the date of his or her death or disability,
and further provided that this option shall not be exercisable after the Final
Exercise Date.

      (e) Discharge for Cause. If the Participant, prior to the Final Exercise
Date, is discharged by the Company for "cause" (as defined below), the right to
exercise this option shall terminate immediately upon the effective date of such
discharge. "Cause" shall mean willful misconduct by the Participant or willful
failure by the Participant to perform his or her responsibilities to the Company
(including, without limitation, breach by the Participant of any provision of
any employment, consulting, advisory, nondisclosure, non-competition or other
similar agreement between the Participant and the Company), as determined by the
Company, which determination shall be conclusive. The Participant shall be
considered to have been discharged for "Cause" if the Company determines, within
30 days after the Participant's resignation, that discharge for cause was
warranted.

4. Withholding.

      No Shares will be issued pursuant to the exercise of this option unless
and until the Participant pays to the Company, or makes provision satisfactory
to the Company for payment of, any federal, state or local withholding taxes
required by law to be withheld in respect of this option.

5. Nontransferability of Option.

      This option may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise
encumbered by the Participant, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except
by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and, during the lifetime of the
Participant, this option shall be exercisable only by the Participant.

                                       -2-

6. Provisions of the Plan.

      This option is subject to the provisions of the Plan, a copy of which is
furnished to the Participant with this option.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this option to be executed
under its corporate seal by its duly authorized officer. This option shall take
effect as a sealed instrument.

                                 BOSTON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

Dated: _________                 By: ____________________________________

                                     Name:  _____________________________
                                     Title: _____________________________

                                       -3-

PARTICIPANT'S ACCEPTANCE

      The undersigned hereby accepts the foregoing option and agrees to the
terms and conditions thereof. The undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt of a
copy of the Company's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.

                                 PARTICIPANT:

                                 ____________________________

                                 Address: ___________________

                                          ___________________

                                       -4-

EXHIBIT A

                         NOTICE OF STOCK OPTION EXERCISE

                                                                  Date:_________

Participant name and address:

__________________________
__________________________
__________________________

Attention:  Treasurer

Dear Sir or Madam:

      I am the holder of an Nonstatutory Stock Option granted to me under the
Boston Life Sciences, Inc. (the "Company") 2005 Stock Incentive Plan on
__________ for the purchase of __________ shares of Common Stock of the Company
at a purchase price of $__________ per share.

      I hereby exercise my option to purchase _________ shares of Common Stock
(the "Shares"), for which I have enclosed __________ in the amount of $________.
Please register my stock certificate as follows:

                                                    (check applicable box)

      Name(s):            _______________________   theeta   TEN COM

                          _______________________   theeta   TEN ENT

      Address:            _______________________   theeta   JT TEN

      Tax I.D. #:         _______________________   theeta   UNIF GIFT MIN ACT

      I represent, warrant and covenant as follows:

1. I am purchasing the Shares for my own account for investment only, and not
with a view to, or for sale in connection with, any distribution of the Shares
in violation of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"), or any rule
or regulation under the Securities Act.

2. I have had such opportunity as I have deemed adequate to obtain from
representatives of the Company such information as is necessary to permit me to
evaluate the merits and risks of my investment in the Company.

3. I have sufficient experience in business, financial and investment matters to
be able to evaluate the risks involved in the purchase of the Shares and to make
an informed investment decision with respect to such purchase.

4. I can afford a complete loss of the value of the Shares and am able to bear
the economic risk of holding such Shares for an indefinite period.

5. I understand that (i) the Shares have not been registered under the
Securities Act and are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144
under the Securities Act, (ii) the Shares cannot be sold, transferred or
otherwise disposed of unless they are subsequently registered under the
Securities Act or an exemption from registration is then available; (iii) in any
event, the exemption from registration under Rule 144 will not be available for
at least one year and even then will not be available unless a public market
then exists for the Common Stock, adequate information concerning the Company is
then available to the public, and other terms and conditions of Rule 144 are
complied with; and (iv) there is now no registration statement on file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to any stock of the Company and
the Company has no obligation or current intention to register the Shares under
the Securities Act.

Very truly yours,

_________________________________
(Signature)

                                       -6-

</EX-10.55>

<EX-21>
 13
 b58962blexv21.txt
 EX-21 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

.
                                                                               .
                                                                               .

                                                                      EXHIBIT 21

                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

STATE OF
NAME OF SUBSIDIARY                                    INCORPORATION
- ------------------                                    -------------
                                                       
Acumed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.                            Delaware
Ara Pharmaceuticals, Inc.                               Delaware
Boston Life Sciences International, Inc.                Delaware
Coda Pharmaceuticals, Inc.                              Delaware
Neurobiologics, Inc.                                    Delaware
ProCell Pharmaceuticals, Inc.                           Delaware

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 14
 b58962blexv23.txt
 EX-23 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

EXHIBIT 23.1

            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Forms S-3 (File Nos. 333-112123, 333-113015, 333-88726, 333-74775,
333-75175, 333-89159, 333-40408 and 333-44298) and on Forms S-8 (File Nos.
333-80065, 333-80067, 333-80069, 333-67384, 333-67386 and 333-130454) of Boston
Life Sciences, Inc. and its subsidiaries of our report dated March 31, 2006
relating the financial statements, which appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Boston, Massachusetts

March 31, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 15
 b58962blexv31w1.txt
 EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.E.O.

EXHIBIT 31.1

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Peter G. Savas, certify that:

1.    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Boston Life Sciences,
      Inc.;

2.    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
      of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report;

3.    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
      information included in this report, fairly present in all material
      respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
      the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant
      and have:

      a)    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
            disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
            supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
            registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known
            to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
            period in which this report is being prepared;

      b)    [Not Applicable];

      c)    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
            and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about
            the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of
            the end of the period covered by this report based on such
            evaluation; and

      d)    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
            control over financial reporting that occurred during the
            registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
            fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
            affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
            registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

      a)    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
            or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
            reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
            record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

      b)    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
            other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
            internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 31, 2006                        /s/ Peter G. Savas
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Peter G. Savas
                                            Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 16
 b58962blexv31w2.txt
 EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.F.O.

EXHIBIT 31.2

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Kenneth L. Rice, Jr., certify that:

1.    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Boston Life Sciences,
      Inc.;

2.    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
      of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report;

3.    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
      information included in this report, fairly present in all material
      respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
      the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant
      and have:

      a)    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
            disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
            supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
            registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known
            to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
            period in which this report is being prepared;

      b)    [Not Applicable];

      c)    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
            and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about
            the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of
            the end of the period covered by this report based on such
            evaluation; and

      d)    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
            control over financial reporting that occurred during the
            registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
            fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
            affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
            registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

      a)    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
            or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
            reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
            record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

      b)    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
            other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
            internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 31, 2006                  /s/ Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.
                                      Executive Vice President Finance and
                                      Administration and Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 17
 b58962blexv32w1.txt
 EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.E.O.

EXHIBIT 32.1

                CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

   In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Boston Life Sciences,
Inc. (the "Company") for the period ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), the
undersigned, Peter G. Savas, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that:

      (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

      (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Date: March 31, 2006                        /s/ Peter G. Savas
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Peter G. Savas
                                            Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 18
 b58962blexv32w2.txt
 EX-32.2 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.F.O.

EXHIBIT 32.2

                CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

   In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Boston Life Sciences,
Inc. (the "Company") for the period ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), the
undersigned, Kenneth L. Rice, Jr., Executive Vice President Finance and
Administration and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, hereby certifies,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that:

      (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

      (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Date: March 31, 2006                  /s/ Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      Kenneth L. Rice, Jr.
                                      Executive Vice President Finance and
                                      Administration and Chief Financial Officer

</EX-32.2>

