<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_943487_0001104659-06-021142_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>960330</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>112661</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>638916</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>20</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021142.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331135907
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021142
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MILLBURN WORLD RESOURCE TRUST
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000943487
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				066415583
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-26932
		FILM NUMBER:		06727512

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		C/O MILLBURN RIDGEFIELD CORP
		STREET 2:		411 WEST PUTNAM AVENUE
		CITY:			GREENWICH
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06830
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2036257554

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		C/O MILLBURN RIDGEFIELD CORP
		STREET 2:		411 WEST PUTNAM AVENUE
		CITY:			GREENWICH
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06830

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Rx0y0kqJfn+QfToIC9P0wmaIgwhE6+wYw/PzNtncNwWHdijVeXlDsDsIh7RxayKi
 Uomvunk9wDhBrS1hxc2jfA==

 0001104659-06-021142.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-2385_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED
STATES   

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION   

Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

Annual Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)   

   of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934   

For the Fiscal Year Ended:  December 31, 2005   

or   

o      Transition Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)   

   of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934   

Commission File Number:  0-26932   

THE MILLBURN WORLD RESOURCE TRUST   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Delaware   

06-6415583   

(State or other jurisdiction of  

(I.R.S. Employer  

incorporation or organization)  

Identification No.)  

c/o
  MILLBURN RIDGEFIELD CORPORATION   

411
  West Putnam Avenue   

Greenwich,
  Connecticut  06830   

(Address of principal
  executive offices)  

Registrant s telephone
number, including area code:     (203) 625-7554    

  Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     None    

  Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:     Units of Beneficial Interest    

  (Title of Class)  

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.   Yes   o     No     

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.    Yes   o     No     

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.   Yes         No  o  

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporation by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See
definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  

  Large accelerated filer   o            Accelerated
Filer   o            Non-accelerated
filer      

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).   Yes   o     No     

Documents Incorporated by Reference  

Registrant s Financial
Statements for the Years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 with
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, the annual report to
security holders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, is
incorporated by reference into Part II item 8 and Part IV hereof and
filed as an exhibit herewith.  

PART I  

Item 1.   Business   

(a)    General development of business   

The
Millburn World Resource Trust (the  Trust ) is a business trust organized June 7,
1995 pursuant to a Declaration of Trust and Trust Agreement (the  Trust
Agreement ), under the Delaware Business Trust Act. Between July 12, 1995
and September 11, 1995 (the  Initial Offering ), units of beneficial
interest in the Trust (the  Units ) were publicly offered at an initial price
of $1,000 per Unit. The proceeds of the Initial Offering and interest thereon
were held in escrow until September 13, 1995 at which time an aggregate of
$15,141,664 was turned over to the Trust and the Trust commenced operations. The
Trust most recently offered Units during January 2002 and, as of December 31,
2005, Units were not being offered. The offering is registered under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and a total of $150 million of Units have
been registered. A total of $98,280,140 of Units have been sold to the public
as of December 31, 2005.  

The
Trust engages in speculative trading in the futures, options and forward
markets.  

Millburn
Ridgefield Corporation (the  Managing Owner ), a Delaware corporation, is the
managing owner and the commodity trading advisor for the Trust. The Managing
Owner invested $400 in the Trust as an initial capital contribution to the Trust
and $155,005 in the Trust at the outset of trading. Thereafter, the Managing
Owner contributed an additional $417,000 and has redeemed $950,000 of Units as
of December 31, 2005. After reflecting cumulative gains and profit shares
of $580,731, the Managing Owner s investment in the Trust totaled $203,136 as
of December 31, 2005.  

(b)    Financial information about industry segments   

The
Trust s business constitutes only one segment, i.e., a speculative commodity
pool. The Trust does not engage in sales of goods and services. Financial
information regarding the Trust s business is set forth in Item 6  Selected
Financial Data  and in the Trust s Financial Statements included as Exhibit 13.01
to this report.  

(c)    Narrative description of business   

The
Trust engages in the speculative trading of futures, options on futures, and
forward contracts. The Trust s sole trading advisor is the Managing Owner. The
Managing Owner trades the Trust s assets, pursuant to its World Resource
Portfolio, in the agricultural, metals, energy, interest rate and stock indices
futures and futures options markets and in the currency markets, trading
primarily forward contracts in the interbank market. The objective of the
Managing Owner s trading method is to participate in all major sustained price
moves in the markets traded. The Managing Owner s approach is medium-term to
long-term in nature. The Managing Owner makes trading decisions pursuant to its
trading method, which includes technical trend analysis, certain non-trend-following
technical systems, and money management principles, which may be revised
from time to time.  

The
Managing Owner is engaged in an ongoing research effort to improve its trading
methods and to apply its quantitative analytic expertise to new financial products.  

Successful
systematic futures trading depends on two factors;  development and selection of the trading
systems used in each market, and allocation of portfolio risk among the markets
available for trading.  

2  

Market
environments change over time, and particular systems may perform well
in one environment but poorly in another. Likewise, portfolio sectors and
individual markets go through periods where systematic trading is very
profitable and other periods where no system makes any money.  

The
goal of the Managing Owner s research has been to develop and select a mix of
systems in each market and allocate risk across a wide array of markets, so as
to contain overall portfolio risk in the targeted range, while allowing
exposure to profitable trend opportunities. Over the last 30 years, the
Managing Owner has developed hundreds of trading systems. These intermediate-
to long-term trading systems generate buy or sell decisions in a particular
market based on the direction of price movements in the market.  

Systems
can be materially different   better in some periods and worse in others. The
main distinguishing features are time-frame over which systems work (intra-day
to long-term), the type of data fed into them (granularity [ticks to
weeks/months], type [market or economic statistics], source [cash, futures or
options markets]), and the objective of the system (profiting from trends,
trading-ranges or volatility). No single approach will work all the time. Therefore,
the Managing Owner s objective is to have several approaches operating at all
times. Since the early 1980 s, the Managing Owner has selected multiple systems
for each market.  

When
arriving at the portfolio allocation, the Managing Owner seeks maximum
diversification subject to liquidity constraints. The markets traded and
allocations are reviewed monthly, although changes may occur less
frequently. The following factors are considered in constructing a universe of
markets to trade for each portfolio: 
profitability, correlation of market performance, liquidity of markets,
depth of markets, breadth of markets, professional judgment, desired
diversification and transaction costs. Once the universe of markets is
established, the Managing Owner s simulation and optimization techniques help
determine which markets to include in the portfolio. The current allocation to
any market in the portfolio does not exceed 3%.  

Risk
is a function of both price level and price volatility. In attempting to assess
market volatility as a means of monitoring and evaluating risk, the Managing
Owner uses its volatility overlay as a part of individual market risk
management. This system is designed to measure the risk in the portfolio s
position in each market and signals a decrease in position size when risk
increases and an increase in position size when risk decreases. The Managing
Owner s volatility overlay maintains overall portfolio risk and distribution of
risk across markets within designated ranges. It is applied to the systematic
strategies described above. A secondary benefit of the volatility overlay can
be timely profit taking. Because markets tend to become more volatile after a
profitable trend has been long underway, the volatility overlay often signals
position reductions before trend reversals.  

In
addition to the volatility overlay, the Managing Owner s risk management
focuses on money management principles applicable to the portfolio as a whole
rather than to individual markets and control of leverage and portfolio size.
There are, however, no restrictions on the amount of leverage the managing
owner may use at any time.  

Pursuant
to the Trust Agreement, the Managing Owner receives a flat-rate monthly
brokerage fee equal to 0.75 of 1% of the month-end Net Assets (a 9.0% annual
rate). The Managing Owner retains the right to charge less than the annual
brokerage rate of 9% to those subscribers who either invest $1,000,000 or more
in the Units or subscribe without incurring the selling commission paid by the
Managing Owner. These reductions have no effect on other investors. The
Managing Owner also receives a profit share equal to 17.5% of any new trading
profit as defined, determined as of the end of each calendar quarter. The
quarterly profit share is calculated net of brokerage fees and administrative
expenses and excluding interest income.  

Prudential
Financial Derivatives LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. and Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Inc. act as the futures brokers for the
Trust. The Trust executes currency forward trades with several brokers and
banks, including Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated and clears all such
trades with Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, serving as prime broker.
The Trust pays  bid asked  spreads on its forward trades, as such spreads are
incorporated into the pricing of forward contracts. The Managing Owner monitors
the Trust s trades to ensure that the prices it receives are competitive.  

The
Trust pays its administrative expenses, including offering costs, and any
extraordinary expenses which it may incur. The Managing Owner pays all the
routine costs of executing and clearing the Trust s trades and all compensation
due to the selling agents.  

3  

The
Trust is open-ended and may offer Units at net asset value as of the first
day of each month, although it is not currently doing so. Unitholders may redeem
any or all of their Units upon 10 business days  written notice to the
Managing Owner at their net asset value as of the last day of any month. Requests
for redemption will be honored and payment will be made, except in the event of
highly unusual market disruptions, within 15 business days of the effective
date of redemption.  

The
Trust s cash and U.S. Treasury instruments are used by the Trust to engage in
its trading activities and as reserves to support that trading. The Trust s
assets deposited with the Trust s futures brokers as margin are maintained in  customer
segregated funds accounts  or  foreign futures and foreign options secured
amount accounts  and are held in cash, or U.S. Treasury instruments. Trust
assets not deposited as margin are maintained in bank or brokerage accounts and
are held primarily in bank money market funds or U.S. Treasury instruments.  

The
Trust does not engage in lending (other than through permitted securities
investments). The Managing Owner does not anticipate making any distributions
of Trust profits, if any.  

Regulation   

Under
the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (the  CEA ), commodity exchanges and
futures trading are subject to regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (the  CFTC ). National Futures Association ( NFA ), a  registered
futures association  under the CEA, is the only non-exchange self-regulatory
organization for futures industry professionals. The CFTC has delegated to NFA
responsibility for the registration of  commodity trading advisors,   commodity
pool operators,   futures commission merchants,   introducing brokers  and
their respective associated persons and  floor brokers  and  floor traders.   The CEA requires commodity pool operators and
commodity trading advisors, such as the Managing Owner, and commodity brokers
or futures commission merchants, such as the Brokers, to be registered and to
comply with various reporting and record keeping requirements. The CFTC may suspend
a commodity pool operator s or trading advisor s registration if it finds that
its trading practices tend to disrupt orderly market conditions or in certain
other situations. In the event that the registration of the Managing Owner as a
commodity pool operator or a commodity trading advisor were terminated or
suspended, the Managing Owner would be unable to continue to manage the
business of the Trust. Should the Managing Owner s registration be suspended,
termination of the Trust might result.  

In
addition to such registration requirements, the CFTC and certain commodity
exchanges have established limits on the maximum net long or net short position
which any person may hold or control in particular commodities. Most
exchanges also limit the changes in futures contract prices that may occur
during a single trading day.  Currency
forward contracts are not subject to regulation by any United States Government
agency.  

(i)   through
(xii) - not applicable.  

(xiii)   the
Trust has no employees.  

(d)     Financial information about geographic areas    

The
Trust does not engage in material operations in foreign countries (although it
does trade from the United States in foreign currency forward contracts and on
foreign futures exchanges), nor is a material portion of its revenues derived
from foreign customers.  

(e)     Available information    

The
Trust files quarterly, annual and current reports with the Securities and
Exchange Commission ( SEC ). These reports are available to read and copy at
the SEC s Public Reference Facilities in Washington, D.C. at 450 Fifth Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC s toll free number,
1-800-SEC-0330, for further information. The Trust does not maintain a website
where these reports are posted. However, the Trust s filings are posted on the
SEC s website at http://www.sec.gov.  

4  

Item 1A.   Risk
Factors   

You Could Lose Your
Entire Investment in the Trust   

An
investment in the Trust is a speculative investment. Investors rely on the
Managing Owner to trade profitably for the Trust and profitability is not
assured. You could lose all or substantially all of your investment in the
Trust.  

The Trust is a Highly
Leveraged Investment   

The
Trust generally holds positions with a face value of as much as eight, and
possibly as much as ten or more, times its total equity. Consequently, small
adverse movements in the prices of the Trust s open positions can cause
significant losses.  

The Performance of the
Trust Will be Volatile   

The
Managing Owner expects that the performance of the Trust will be volatile. The
Trust may suffer sudden and substantial losses from time to time and the
day-to-day value of the Units will be variable and uncertain. The Net Asset
Value per Unit may change materially between the date on which you
subscribe for Units and the date the Units are issued or the date you request a
redemption and the month-end redemption date.  

The Trust s Expenses Will
Cause Losses Unless Offset by Profits and Interest Income   

The
Trust pays annual expenses regardless of profitability. The Trust must earn
trading profits and interest income at least equal to these expenses to avoid
losses.  

An Investment in the
Trust is not Liquid   

There
is no secondary market for the Units. Investors may redeem Units only as
of the close of business on the last day of a calendar month and must give the
Trust at least 10 days  prior written notice of the intent to redeem.  

The Timing of Investment
and Redemption Decisions Will Affect the Profitability of an Investment   

The
Managing Owner expects that a majority of the Trust s trades will result in
small profits only or in losses. The majority of any profits earned by the Trust
will most likely come from a small number of trades each year. Accordingly, investors
will not know when is a good time to redeem Units, and the timing of investment
and redemption decisions will affect the amount of profit or loss you
experience as an investor in the Trust.  

The Managing Owner Alone
Directs the Trust s Trading   

The
Trust is a single-advisor fund. The use of a single advisor trading one program
involves a greater risk of loss than the diversified, multi-advisor approach
employed by many futures funds. In addition, if the management services of the
Managing Owner were to become unavailable for any reason, the Trust would
terminate. Furthermore, were the Managing Owner to lose the services of its key
principals, the Managing Owner could decide to dissolve the Trust, possibly
causing it to realize losses.  

The Managing Owner is a
Technical Trader and Does not Analyze Economic Factors External to Market Price   

The
Managing Owner s systematic strategies are developed on the basis of a statistical
analysis of market prices. Consequently, any factor external to the market
itself that dominates prices may cause major losses. For example, a
pending political or economic event may be very likely to cause a major
price movement, but the  

5  

Managing Owner would
continue to maintain positions indicated by its trading method that would incur
major losses if the event proved to be adverse.  

The
Managing Owner s systematic strategies retain certain discretionary aspects.
Decisions, for example, to adjust the size of the positions indicated by the
systematic strategies, which contracts to trade and method of order entry
require judgmental input from the Managing Owner s principals. Additionally,
the Managing Owner may determine not to enter a new position indicated by
its strategies if the Managing Owner determines prevailing market conditions to
be unusual, for example, significantly more volatile than the expected
volatility factored into the design of the strategies. The Managing Owner does,
however, exit positions when its trading strategies indicate that it should do
so. Discretionary decision-making may result in the Managing Owner making
unprofitable trades when a more wholly systematic approach would not have done
so.  

Lack of Price Trends Will
Cause Losses; There Have Been Sustained Periods With Insufficient Price Trends
for the Diversified Portfolio to Trade Profitably. The Managing Owner Expects
That There Will be Similar Periods in the Future   

The Trust
cannot trade profitably unless there are major price trends in at least some of
the markets it trades. Moreover, the price trends must be of a type the
Managing Owner s systems are designed to identify. In the past there have been
sustained periods with few trending markets where gains from trading those
markets were insufficient to offset losses from trades in non-trending markets.  

Markets
in which prices move rapidly and then reverse and then do so again may cause
losses. In such  whipsaw  market conditions, the Managing Owner may establish
positions for the Trust on the basis of incorrectly identifying the rapid
movement or the reversal as a trend.  

Lack of Market Liquidity
Could Make it Impossible for the Trust to Realize Profits or Limit Losses   

In
illiquid markets, the Trust could be unable to close out positions to limit
losses or to take positions in order to follow trends. There are too many
different factors that can contribute to market illiquidity to predict when or
where illiquid markets may occur.  

Unexpected
market illiquidity has caused major losses for some traders in recent years in
such market sectors as emerging markets and mortgage-backed securities. There
can be no assurance that the same will not happen in the markets traded by the
Trust. In addition, the large size of the positions the Trust may take
increases the risk of illiquidity by both making its positions more difficult
to liquidate and increasing the losses incurred while trying to do so.  

United
States commodity exchanges impose limits on the amount the price of some, but
not all, futures contracts may change on a single day. Once a futures
contract has reached its daily limit, it may be impossible for the Trust
to liquidate a position in that contract, if the market has moved adversely to
the Trust, until the limit is either raised by the exchange or the contract
begins to trade away from the limit price.  

The Managing Owner s
Trading Systems Have Been Developed Over Time and are Subject to Change   

In
executing its trading method, the Managing Owner uses combinations of trading
systems to generate buy and sell signals in the various markets traded. The
Managing Owner has developed, modified, retained and discarded numerous systems
over more than 30 years. Consequently, some of the trading systems and
combinations of systems currently being used to trade accounts such as the
Trust are not identical to those used 5, 10, 15 or 20 years ago.  

Trading
on Foreign Exchanges Presents Greater Risk Than Trading on U.S. Exchanges   

The Trust trades on commodity exchanges outside the
United States. Trading on foreign exchanges is not regulated by any United
States governmental agency and may involve certain risks that do not arise
when trading on United States exchanges. For example, some foreign exchanges
are  principals  markets  in which performance is  

6  

the responsibility only
of the individual member with whom the Trust has traded, not of the exchange or
a clearing facility. In such cases, the Trust will be subject to a risk that
the member with whom the Trust has traded is unable or unwilling to perform its
obligations under the transaction. Additionally, an adverse change in the
exchange rate between the United States dollar and the currency in which a
non-U.S. futures contract is denominated would reduce the profit or increase
the loss on a trade in that contract.  

Trading on foreign exchanges also presents risks of
loss due to (1) the possible imposition of exchange controls, which could
make it difficult or impossible for the Trust to repatriate some or all of its
assets held by non-U.S. counterparties; (2) possible government
confiscation of assets; (3) taxation; (4) possible government
disruptions, which could result in market closures and thus an inability to
exit positions and repatriate Trust assets for sustained periods of time, or
even permanently; and (5) limited rights in the event of the bankruptcy or
insolvency of a foreign broker or exchange resulting in a different and possibly
less favorable distribution of the bankrupt s assets than would occur in the
United States.  

The
Managing Owner Anticipates the Trust s Performance to be       Non     -Correlated
to Stocks and Bonds, not      Negatively      Correlated   

Non-correlation means that there is no statistically
valid relationship between two asset classes and should not be confused with
negative correlation, where the performance of two asset classes would be
opposite. Because of this non-correlation, investors should not expect the
Trust to be automatically profitable during unfavorable periods for the stock
and /or bond markets, or   vice versa  .  

If the Trust does not perform in a manner
non-correlated with the general financial markets or does not perform successfully,
investors will obtain no diversification benefits by investing in the Units and
the Trust may have no gains to offset losses from other investments.  

The
Trust May be Subject to Profit Shares Despite Certain Units Having
Declined in Value   

Investors have purchased Units at different times and
will, accordingly, recognize different amounts of profit and loss on their
investments. Profit Shares are accrued, or the accruals are reversed to reflect
losses, on a monthly basis. Profit Shares are calculated on the basis of the
cumulative net trading profits recognized by the Trust as a whole, not on the
profits recognized by any particular Unit or Units. Consequently, the Managing
Owner may still be allocated a Profit Share even though certain Units have
lost value since the date they were purchased.  

The
Managing Owner s Increased Equity Under Management Could Lead to Lower Returns
for Investors   

The Managing Owner has not agreed to limit the amount
of money it may manage and is actively seeking additional accounts. The
more money the Managing Owner manages, the more difficult it may become
for the Managing Owner to trade profitably for the Trust because of the
difficulty of trading larger positions without negatively affecting prices and
performance.  

Increased Competition Among Trend-Following
Traders Could Reduce the Managing Owner s Profitability   

A substantial number of commodity trading advisors use
technical trading systems, particularly trend-following systems, like the
Managing Owner s systems. As the amount of money under the management of such
systems increases, competition for the same positions increases, making the
positions more costly and more difficult to acquire.  

The
Trust is Subject to Conflicts of Interest   

The Trust is subject to numerous actual and potential
conflicts of interest, including: (1) the compensation that the Selling
Agents receive gives them an incentive to discourage redemptions; (2) the
brokerage commissions that Prudential Financial Derivatives LLC, Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
receive as clearing brokers for the Trust gives an additional incentive to
discourage redemptions; (3) the Managing Owner has significant financial
incentives to discourage their redemption; and (4) the Managing  

7  

Owner of the Trust will
not select any other trading advisor even if doing so would be in the best
interests of the Trust.  

The
Managing Owner has not Established Formal Procedures to Resolve Conflicts of
Interest   

Because the Managing Owner has not established any
formal procedures for resolving conflicts of interest, investors will be
dependent on the good faith of the parties with conflicts to resolve the
conflicts equitably. The Managing Owner cannot assure that conflicts of
interest will not result in losses for the Trust.  

You
Will be Taxed Each Year on Your Share of Trust Profits   

If you are an individual or entity subject to U.S.
taxes (e.g., not a tax-exempt entity such as an IRA or pension plan), you will
be taxed on your share of Trust income or gain each year, whether or not you
redeem Units or receive distributions from the Trust.  

Because a substantial portion of the Trust s open
positions are  marked-to-market  at the end of each year, some of your tax liability
will be based on unrealized gains which the Trust may, in fact, never realize.  

40% of any trading profits on certain U.S.
exchange-traded futures contracts and certain foreign currency forward
contracts are taxed as short-term capital gains at ordinary income rates
(unless offset by capital losses), while 60% of any such trading profits are
taxed as long-term capital gains at a lower maximum rate for individuals (15%
for most gains recognized in taxable years beginning on or before December 31,
2008). 100% of any trading profits from non-U.S. exchange traded interest rate
futures contracts and certain forward currency contracts that do not have an
equivalent U.S. exchange traded futures contract are  marked-to-market  at the
end of each year and taxed as short-term capital gains at ordinary income tax
rates (unless offset by capital losses). These rates apply regardless of how
long the Trust holds a contract, or an investor his or her Units.  

Due to the different tax rates for long-term and
short-term capital gains and losses, and depending on the tax character of
income and loss you receive on other investments in your portfolio, it is
possible for you to have a pre-tax economic gain on your investment in the
Trust but an after tax loss.  

Over time, the compounding effects of the annual
taxation of the Trust s income are material to the economic consequences of
investing in the Trust. For example, a 10% compound annual rate of return over
five years would result in an initial $10,000 investment compounding to
$16,105. However, if one factors in a 30% tax rate each year, the result would
be $14,025.  

You
Will be Taxed on the Trust s Interest Income Even if the Trust Suffers Trading
Losses   

Losses on the Trust s trading are almost exclusively
capital losses. Non-corporate investors may use net capital losses to
offset up to $3,000 of ordinary income each year. So, for example, if your
share of the Trust s trading (  i.e.  ,
capital) loss was $10,000 in a given fiscal year and your share of interest
income was $5,000, you would incur a net loss in the Net Asset Value of your
Units equal to $5,000, but would nevertheless recognize taxable income of
$2,000.  

Limitations
on the Deductibility of  Investment Advisory Fees    

The Managing Owner does not intend to treat the
ordinary expenses of the Trust as  investment advisory fees  for federal income
tax purposes. The Managing Owner believes that this is the position adopted by
virtually all United States futures fund sponsors. However, were the ordinary
expenses of the Trust characterized as  investment advisory fees, 
non-corporate taxpayers would be subject to substantial restrictions on the
deductibility of those expenses, would pay increased taxes in respect of an
investment in the Trust and could actually recognize taxable income despite
having incurred a financial loss.  

The
IRS Could Audit Both the Trust and Individual Unitholders   

The IRS could audit the Trust s tax returns and
require the Trust to adjust such returns. If an audit results in an adjustment,
you could be audited and required to pay additional taxes, plus interest and
possibly penalties.  

The
Bankruptcy of a Clearing Broker or Currency Dealer Could Cause Losses   

The Managing Owner must assess the credit-worthiness
of the clearing brokers and foreign currency counterparties it selects for the
Trust. If one of the Trust s clearing brokers or foreign currency
counterparties becomes bankrupt, the Trust will be limited to recovering only
its   pro rata   share of all
available customer funds  

8  

segregated by the clearing
broker or counterparty. The Managing Owner attempts to mitigate this risk by
selecting only well capitalized, major financial institutions as clearing brokers
and foreign currency counterparties.  

The
Trust Trades in Unregulated Markets   

The Trust will conduct all or substantially all of its
currency forward and related options trading in unregulated markets. There is
no way to determine fair pricing or prevent trading abuses in such markets. The
absence of regulation in such markets could expose the Trust to significant
losses.  

Various national governments have expressed concern
regarding the disruptive effects of speculative trading in the currency markets
and the need to regulate the  derivatives  markets in general. Future
regulatory changes may limit the Trust s ability to trade in certain
markets.  

Item 2.    Properties    

The
Trust does not own or use any physical properties in the conduct of its
business. The Managing Owner or an affiliate perform all administrative
services for the Trust from their offices.  

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings   

The
Managing Owner is not aware of any pending legal proceedings to which either
the Trust is a party or to which any of 
its assets are subject. In addition there are no pending material legal
proceedings involving the Managing Owner.  

Item 4.   Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.  

PART II  

Item 5.   Market for the Registrant s Common Equity and
Related Stockholder Matters   

(a)    Market Information .  

There
is no trading market for the Units, and none is likely to develop. Units may be
redeemed upon  10 business days 
written notice to the Managing Owner at their net asset value as of the last
day of any month.  

(b)    Holders .  

As of December 31,
2005, there were 388 holders of Units.  

(c)    Dividends .  

No
distributions or dividends have been made on the Units, and the Managing Owner
has no present intention to make any.  

(d)     Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
Plans    

None.  

(e)    Recent
Sales of Unregistered Securities; Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities .  

Registrant
has made no sales of unregistered securities within the past three years.  

(f)    Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities .  

9  

Pursuant
to the Trust s Declaration of Trust and Trust Agreement, Unitholders may redeem
their Units at the end of each calendar month at the then current month-end Net
Asset Value per Unit. The redemption of Units has no impact on the value of
Units that remain outstanding, and Units are not reissued once redeemed.  

The
following table summarizes the redemptions by Unitholders during the fourth
calendar quarter of 2005:  

10  

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data   

The
following is a summary of operations for the fiscal years 2005, 2004, 2003,
2002 and 2001, and total assets of the Trust at December 31, 2005, 2004,
2003, 2002 and 2001. The Trust commenced trading operations on September 13,
1995.  

*From trading of futures
and forward contracts, foreign exchange transactions and U.S. Treasury
obligations  

**Includes custody fees  

11  

Item 7.   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations   

Reference
is made to  Item 6.  Selected Financial Data   and  Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data .  
The information contained therein is essential to, and should be read in
conjunction with, the following analysis.  

Capital Resources   

Units may be
offered for sale as of the beginning, and may be redeemed as of the end,
of each month. Units are not, however, currently being offered.  

The
amount of capital raised for the Trust should not have a significant impact on
its operations, as the Trust has no significant capital expenditure or working
capital requirements other than for monies to pay trading losses, brokerage
commissions and charges. Within broad ranges of capitalization, the Managing
Owner s trading positions should increase or decrease in approximate proportion
to the size of the Trust.  

The
Trust raises additional capital only through the sale of Units and trading
profits (if any) and does not engage in borrowing.  

The
Trust trades futures, options and forward contracts on interest rates,
commodities, currencies, metals, energy and stock indices. Risk arises from
changes in the value of these contracts (market risk) and the potential
inability of counterparties or brokers to perform under the terms of their
contracts (credit risk). Market risk is generally to be measured by the face
amount of the futures positions acquired and the volatility of the markets
traded. The credit risk from counterparty non-performance associated with these
instruments is the net unrealized gain, if any, on these positions plus the
value of the margin or collateral held by the counterparty. The risks
associated with exchange-traded contracts are generally perceived to be less
than those associated with over-the-counter transactions, because exchanges
typically (but not universally) provide clearinghouse arrangements in which the
collective credit (in some cases limited in amount, in some cases not) of the
members of the exchange is pledged to support the financial integrity of the
exchange. In over-the-counter transactions, on the other hand, traders must
rely solely on the credit of their respective individual counterparties. Margins
which may be subject to loss in the event of a default, are generally required
in exchange trading, and counterparties may require margin or collateral
in the over-the-counter markets.  

The
Managing Owner has procedures in place to control market risk, although there
can be no assurance that they will, in fact, succeed in doing so. These
procedures primarily focus on (1) real time monitoring of open positions; (2) diversifying
positions among various markets; (3) limiting the assets committed as
margin, generally within a range of 15% to 35% of an account s Net Assets at
exchange minimum margins, (including imputed margins on forward positions)
although the amount committed to margin at any time may be substantially
higher; (4) prohibiting pyramiding (that is, using unrealized profits in a
particular market as margin for additional positions in the same market); and (5) changing
the equity utilized for trading by an account solely on a controlled periodic
basis rather than as an automatic consequence of an increase in equity
resulting from trading profits. The Trust controls credit risk by dealing
exclusively with large, well capitalized financial institutions, such as the
Brokers, as brokers and counterparties.  

The
financial instruments traded by the Trust contain varying degrees of
off-balance sheet risk whereby changes in the market values of the futures and
forward contracts or the Trust s satisfaction of the obligations may exceed
the amount recognized in the statement of financial condition of the Trust.  

Due to
the nature of the Trust s business, substantially all its assets are
represented by cash and United States government obligations, while the Trust
maintains its market exposure through open futures and forward contract
positions.  

The
Trust s futures contracts are settled by offset and are cleared by the exchange
clearinghouse function. Open futures positions are marked to market each
trading day and the Trust s trading accounts are debited or credited
accordingly. Options on futures contracts are settled either by offset or by
exercise. If an option on a future  

12  

is exercised, the Trust
is assigned a position in the underlying future which is then settled by offset.
The Trust s spot and forward currency transactions conducted in the interbank
market are settled by netting offsetting positions or payment obligations and
by cash payments.  

The
value of the Trust s cash and financial instruments is not materially affected
by inflation. Changes in interest rates, which are often associated with
inflation, could cause the value of certain of the Trust s debt securities to
decline, but only to a limited extent. More important, changes in interest
rates could cause periods of strong up or down market price trends, during
which the Trust s profit potential generally increases. However, inflation can
also give rise to markets which have numerous short price trends followed by
rapid reversals, markets in which the Trust is likely to suffer losses.  

Liquidity   

The
Trust s assets are generally held as cash or cash equivalents which are used to
margin the Trust s futures and forward currency positions and withdrawn, as
necessary, to pay redemptions and expenses. Other than potential
market-imposed  limitations on liquidity,
due, for example, to limited open interest in certain futures markets or to
daily price fluctuation limits, which are inherent in the Trust s futures and
forward trading, the Trust s assets are highly liquid and are expected to
remain so. During its operations through December 31, 2005, the Trust
experienced no meaningful periods of illiquidity in any of the numerous markets
traded by the Managing Owner.  

Critical Accounting Estimates   

The Trust records its transactions in futures and
forward currency contracts, including related income and expenses, on a trade
date basis. Open futures contracts traded on an exchange are valued at market,
which is based on the closing settlement price on the exchange where the
futures contract is traded by the Trust on the day with respect to which Net
Assets are being determined. Open forward currency contracts are recorded at
fair value, based on pricing models  that
consider the current market prices ( Spot Prices ) plus the time value of money
( Forward Points ) and contractual prices of the underlying financial
instruments. The Spot Prices and Forward Points for open forward currency
contracts are generally based on the 3:00 P.M. New York time prices
provided by widely used quotation service providers on the day with respect to
which Net Assets are being determined. The Forward Points from the quotation
service providers are generally in periods of one month, two months, three
months and six months forward while the contractual forward delivery dates for
the foreign currency contracts traded by the Trust may be in between these
periods.  

The Managing Owner s policy is to calculate the
Forward Points for each contract being valued by determining the number of days
from the date the forward currency contract is being valued to its maturity
date and then using straight-line interpolation to calculate the valuation of
Forward Points for the applicable forward currency contract. The Managing Owner
will also compare the calculated price to the forward currency prices provided
by dealers to determine whether the calculated price is fair and reasonable.  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions, such as accrual of
expenses, that affect the amounts and disclosures reported in the financial
statements. Based on the nature of the business and operations of the Trust,
the Managing Owner believes that the estimates utilized in preparing the Trust s
financial statements are appropriate and reasonable, however actual results
could differ from these estimates. The estimates used do not provide a range of
possible results that would require the exercise of subjective judgment. The
Managing Owner further believes that, based on the nature of the business and
operations of the Trust, no other reasonable assumptions relating to the
application of the Trust s critical accounting estimates other than those
currently used would likely result in materially different amounts from those
reported.  

Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements   

The Trust does not engage in off-balance sheet
arrangements with other entities.  

13  

Contractual
Obligations   

The
Trust does not enter into any contractual obligations or commercial commitments
to make future payments of a type that would be typical for an operating
company or that would affect its liquidity or capital resources. The Trust s
sole business is trading futures and forward currency contracts, both long
(contracts to buy) and short (contracts to sell). All such contracts are
settled by offset, not delivery. Substantially all such contacts are for
settlement within four months of the trade date and substantially all such
contracts are held by the Trust for less than four months before being offset
or rolled over into new contracts with similar maturities.  The Trust s Financial Statements, included as Exhibit 13.01
to this report, present a Condensed Schedule of Investments setting forth
net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of the Trust s open future and
forward currency contracts, both long and short, at December 31, 2005.  

Results of Operations   

Performance Summary    

The
Trust s success depends on the Managing Owner s ability to recognize and
capitalize on trends and other profit opportunities in different sectors of the
world economy. The Managing Owner s trading methods are confidential, so that
substantially the only information that can be furnished regarding the Trust s
results of operations is its performance record. Unlike most operating
businesses, general economic or seasonal conditions have no direct effect on
the profit potential of the Trust, while, at the same time, its past
performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. Because of the
speculative nature of its trading, operational or economic trends have little
relevance to the Trust s results. The Managing Owner believes, however, that
there are certain market conditions   for example, markets with strong price
trends   in which the Trust has a better opportunity of being profitable than
in others.  

2005   

During
2005, the Trust achieved net realized and unrealized gains of $399,427 from its
trading operations (including foreign exchange transactions and translations). Brokerage
fees of $593,517 were paid or accrued. The Trust paid no profit share to the
Managing Owner. Interest income of $182,141 partially offset the Trust s
expenses resulting in a net loss (inclusive of administrative expenses) of
$39,945 and a 1.33% increase in the Net Asset Value per Unit. The increase in
Net Asset Value per Unit does not correspond with the net loss because of the
timing of redemptions of Units in relation to the fluctuating value of the
Trust s investments during the year. An analysis of the trading gain (loss) by
sector is as follows:  

The Trust
produced a small percentage gain for the year. Equity indices and metals were
strongly profitable, and to a lesser extent so were cross rate currency
positions, energy and interest rates. On the other hand, sizable losses
resulted from trading dollar currency positions, and lesser shortfalls came
from trading grains, and livestock.  

14  

International
equity indices were highly profitable in 2005. Following some consolidation
early in the year, non-U.S. equity indexes moved broadly higher through year end.
There were gains from long positions in Asian, European, and South African
equity indices. Solid growth worldwide propelled equities forward despite the
headwinds that came from high energy prices and rising interest rates. Trading
of U.S. stock indexes, which were range-bound for most of 2005, was not
profitable, however.  

Strong
growth of industrial production, especially in China, underpinned demand for
metals, and long positions in copper, zinc, aluminum and lead generated gains.  Continuing expansion of money supply worldwide
fueled demand for precious metals and long platinum, gold and silver positions
were also profitable.  

Energy
prices were volatile, but still moved somewhat higher on balance for the year,
and long positions in crude, heating oil, London gas oil, unleaded gasoline,
and kerosene were slightly profitable. By the end of 2005, however, position
sizes had been reduced significantly.  

Interest
rates were quite volatile during 2005. Early in the year, markets expected
continuing declines in non-U.S. interest rates, and further advances in short
term U.S. rates. Later on, however, interest rates rose rather broadly as the
European Central Bank joined the Federal Reserve in raising official rates, as
growth in emerging economies remained strong, as Japan showed evidence of
exiting from its protracted slump, and as high prices for energy and other
commodities induced inflation fears that periodically roiled markets. In this
environment, profits from long non-U.S. interest rate positions during the
first half of 2005 were largely offset by losses from these positions in the
second half. Indeed, by year end, the portfolio s interest rate positions had
been reduced or reversed from long to short, anticipating higher interest rates.  

Turning
to currencies, cross rate trades based on selling low yield currencies and
buying high interest rate currencies were profitable. In particular, selling
yen and buying the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and British pound was
profitable, as was selling the euro and buying Polish zlotys and Canadian
dollars.  

Dollar
trading, however, was unprofitable throughout the year. The U.S. currency was
not able to sustain a trend and exhibited significant volatility, especially
during the second half of 2005. As a result, 14 of the 17 currencies traded
versus the dollar registered losses or no appreciable gain for the year.  

Trading
of agricultural commodities and livestock generated losses. Prices of corn,
wheat and elements of the soybean complex experienced wide swings in 2005, and
modest losses were sustained across the grain sector of the portfolio. A long
sugar position was quite profitable as weather related crop shortages in Brazil
and Asia increased demand for the commodity and prompted short covering as well.
However, losses from trading coffee, cotton, and cocoa were more than
offsetting. Livestock trading was unprofitable.  

2004   

During
2004, the Trust achieved net realized and unrealized gains of $443,927 from its
trading operations (including foreign exchange transactions and translations). Brokerage
fees of $1,003,462 were paid or accrued. The Trust paid no profit share to the
Managing Owner. Interest income of $134,837 partially offset the Trust s
expenses resulting in a net loss (inclusive of administrative expenses) of
$520,447 and a 3.86% decrease in the Net Asset Value per Unit. An analysis of
the trading gain (loss) by sector is as follows:  

15  

The year 2004 was distinguished by dramatic
transitions in the underlying character of market trading dynamics. Profitable
trends in January and February gave way to a six month period of
trendless, turbulent action across a broad swath of markets that produced
significant losses. Beginning in September, trends reappeared and the Trust
chalked up a sharp recovery in the year s final four months. Interest rate and
energy trading were profitable and to a lesser extent so was trading of
agricultural commodities. These gains partially offset losses from currency,
and stock index trading. The Trust generated a trading gain for the year.  

At the start of the year, long positions in note and
bond futures, particularly for the U.S. and Europe, were quite profitable as
sluggish European growth, concerns about a  jobless  U.S. recovery and central
bank buying of treasuries drove interest rates down. Rising energy prices
benefited long energy positions, and equity and metals trading were profitable.
Currency trading was very unprofitable, however, as a dollar decline halted and
reversed during the quarter.  

From March through August, a number of
uncertainties plagued market participants including:  the June Iraqi elections, the U.S.
Presidential elections in November, the strength of the American economy and
thrust of Federal Reserve policy, and China s foreign exchange, industrial and
monetary policy directions. As a result, markets across the board displayed
unprofitable, directionless price action. Trading of currencies, interest
rates, stock indices, metals and agricultural commodities produced losses. Energy
trading, in fact, was the only profitable sector for this period, and the gain
was only marginal.  

As the aforementioned uncertainties began to clarify,
market participants became more confident of their opinions and a number of
profitable trend opportunities emerged. In particular, a sharp dollar decline
led to excellent profits from a series of short dollar positions,
particularly versus the euro and Korean won. This dollar sell off was prompted
by worries about persistent U. S. current account and budget deficits, as well
as the rising probability that foreign central banks would begin to diversify
their international reserve holdings away from the American currency. Trading
of interest rate, stock index, and metal futures was also profitable over the last
four months of the year.  

2003   

During
2003, the Trust achieved net realized and unrealized gains of $1,202,555 from
trading operations (including foreign exchange transactions and translations). Brokerage
fees of $1,774,676 were paid or accrued. The Trust paid no profit share. Interest
income of $253,838 partially offset the Trust s expenses resulting in a net
loss (inclusive of administrative expenses) of $421,139 and a 3.38% decrease in
the Net Asset Value per Unit. An analysis of the trading gain (loss) by sector
is as follows:  

The
Trust s performance was quite volatile throughout the year 2003. Substantial
gains registered in January and February were largely erased in
March, when major long term price trends in currencies, energy and interest
rates reversed abruptly as the Iraq invasion moved from rhetoric to reality,
and as traders and investors rushed to square positions, moving to the
sidelines at least temporarily. Then, in May, as the initial phase of the Iraqi
conflict was reaching a quicker then expected resolution, concern about large
U.S. budget and trade deficits,  

16  

unfavorable U.S. interest
rate differentials, and Treasury Secretary Snow s apparent acquiescence to a
weaker dollar, reignited a dollar selloff. At the same time, fears of
deflation, and the Fed s continued easy monetary policy, produced a renewed
fall in interest rates. These broad movements brought with them a sizable
profit for the portfolio. However, after slightly favorable summer results,
interest rate and energy markets succumbed to volatility without sustained
trends. Therefore, losses in these two sectors outweighed gains from currency,
stock index, and metals trading over the second half of 2003.  

On a
sector basis, currency trading was profitable for 2003. Long positions in the
euro and commodity currencies (South African rand, Australian and New Zealand
dollars) were quite profitable as the U.S. currency fell. On the other hand,
trading of Far Eastern currencies (yen, Korean won, and the Singapore dollar)
produced losses, since heavy Central Bank intervention throughout the region
counterbalanced much of the downward pressure on the U.S. unit and led to
erratic rate fluctuations.  

Stock
futures trading was profitable due to a general up move in equities worldwide.
Long gold and copper positions were profitable, particularly later in the year,
as flight to safety and a weak dollar boosted gold prices, and as a weak dollar
and surging industrial demand pushed copper prices upward.  

Energy
prices were highly volatile during the year, particularly with the onset of
hostilities in Iraq in March, and, hence energy trading generated losses in
2003.  

Interest
rate trading was very profitable during the first half of 2003 when rates
worldwide were continuing to trend downward. However, when that trend reversed
abruptly in mid-June and was followed by erratic non-directional range
trading, offsetting losses were experienced, especially during the September  
December period. Lastly, trading of agricultural commodities produced
losses throughout the year.  

Item 7A.   Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Not
required.  

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

Financial
statements required by this item, including the report of Deloitte  
Touche LLP for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, are
included as Exhibit 13.01 to this report. The report of Ernst  
Young LLP for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 is filed as Exhibit 13.02
hereto.  

The
following summarized quarterly financial information presents the results of
operations for the three month periods ended March 31, June 30, September 30
and December 31, 2005 and 2004. This information has not been audited.  

17  

There
were no extraordinary, unusual or infrequently occurring items recognized in
any quarter within the two most recent fiscal years, and the Trust has not
disposed of any segments of its business. There have been no year-end
adjustments that are material to the results of any fiscal quarter reported
above.  

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

None.  

Item
9A.   Controls and Procedures   

The Managing Owner, with the
participation of the Managing Owner s principal executive officers and
principal financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and
operation of its disclosure controls and procedures with respect to the Trust
as of the end of the fiscal year for which this Annual Report on Form 10-K
is being filed, and, based on their evaluation, have concluded that these
disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There were no significant
changes in the Managing Owner s internal controls with respect to the Trust or
in other factors applicable to the Trust that could significantly affect these
controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation.  

Item 9B.     Other
Information  

None.  

PART III  

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

(a,b)    Identification
of Directors and Executive Officers   

The
Trust has no directors or executive officers. The Trust is controlled and
managed by the Managing Owner under a delegation of authority by the Trust s
Trustee, Wilmington Trust Company.  

Millburn
Ridgefield Corporation,  the Managing
Owner, is a Delaware corporation organized in May 1982 to manage
discretionary accounts in futures and forward markets. It is the corporate
successor to a futures trading and advisory organization which has been
continuously managing assets in the currency and futures markets using
quantitative, systematic techniques since 1971.  

The
principals and senior officers of the Managing Owner as of December 31,
2005 are as follows:  

Harvey Beker, age 52.      Mr. Beker is Co-Chief Executive Officer
and Co-Chairman of the Managing Owner and The Millburn Corporation, and a
partner of their affiliate, ShareInVest Research L.P. He received a Bachelor of
Arts degree in economics from New York University ( NYU ) in 1974 and a Master
of Business Administration degree in finance from NYU in 1975. From June 1975
to July 1977, Mr. Beker was employed by Loeb Rhoades, Inc. where
he developed and traded silver arbitrage strategies. From July 1977 to June 1978,
Mr. Beker was a futures trader at Clayton Brokerage Co. of St. Louis.
Mr. Beker has been employed by The Millburn 

18  

Corporation since June 1978
and initially served as the Director of operations for its affiliate, Millburn
Partners. During his tenure at Millburn (including its affiliates, Millburn
Partners and CommInVest Research Limited Partnership ( CommInVest )) he has
been instrumental in the development of the research, trading and operations
areas. Mr. Beker became a principal of the firm in June 1982, and a
partner in ShareInVest, the predecessor of ShareInVest Research L.P. ( ShareInVest ),
in April 1982.  

Gregg R. Buckbinder, age 47.      Mr. Buckbinder is Senior Vice-President
and Chief Operating Officer of the Managing Owner and The Millburn Corporation
and a partner, since January 2000, of ShareInVest. He graduated cum laude
from Pace University ( Pace ) in 1980 with a B.B.A. in accounting and received
an M.S. in taxation from Pace in 1988. He joined the Managing Owner and The
Millburn Corporation in January 1998 from Odyssey Partners, L.P. where he
was responsible for the operation, administration and accounting of the firm s
merchant banking and managed account businesses from July 1990 through December 1997.
Mr. Buckbinder was employed by Tucker Anthony, a securities broker and
dealer, from June 1985 to July 1990 where he was First Vice President
and Controller, and from August 1983 to June 1984 where he designed
and implemented various operations and accounting systems. He was with the
public accounting firm of Ernst   Whinney from June 1984 to June 1985
as a manager in the tax department and from September 1980 to August 1983
as a senior auditor, with an emphasis on clients in the financial services
business. He is a Certified Public Accountant and a member of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants. 

George E. Crapple, age 61.      Mr. Crapple is Co-Chief Executive Officer
and Co-Chairman of the Managing Owner and The Millburn Corporation and a
partner of ShareInVest. In 1966 he graduated with honors from the University of
Wisconsin where his field of concentration was economics and he was elected to
Phi Beta Kappa. In 1969 he graduated from Harvard Law School,   magna cum laude  , where he was a
member of the Harvard Law Review. He was a lawyer with Sidley  
Austin, Chicago, Illinois, from 1969 until April 1, 1983, as a partner
since 1975, specializing in commodities, securities, corporate and tax law. He
was first associated with the Managing Owner in 1976 and joined Managing Owner
and The Millburn Corporation (including its affiliates, Millburn Partners and
CommInVest) on April 1, 1983 on a full-time basis. He became a partner in
ShareInVest in April 1984. Mr. Crapple is a Director, Member of the
Executive Committee, Chairman of the Appeals Committee and a former Chairman of
the Eastern Regional Business Conduct Committee of the NFA, past Chairman of
the Managed Funds Association, a member of the Global Markets Advisory
Committee of the CFTC and a member of the board of directors of the Futures
Industry Association ( FIA ). 

Steven M. Felsenthal, age 36.     Mr. Felsenthal
is General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of the Managing Owner, The
Millburn Corporation and ShareInVest. Prior to joining Millburn in January 2004,
Mr. Felsenthal was a senior associate in the investment management group
at Schulte Roth   Zabel LLP (September 1999- January 2004),
where he represented and advised hedge funds, registered investment companies,
investment advisers, broker-dealers and banks in connection with all facets of
their asset management businesses, and a member of the tax department of
Kramer, Levin, Naftalis   Frankel LLP (October 1996- September 1999).
He graduated   cum laude   from
Yeshiva University in 1991 with a bachelor of arts degree in political science,
and   order of the coif   from
Fordham University School of Law in 1996, where he also served as an editor of
the Fordham Environmental Law Journal. Mr. Felsenthal received an LL.M
degree in taxation from NYU School of Law in 2001 and has written and been
quoted in numerous published articles on various topics related to investment
management. Mr. Felsenthal is a member of the New York State Bar. 

Mark B. Fitzsimmons, age 58.     Mr. Fitzsimmons
is a Senior Vice-President of the Managing Owner and The Millburn Corporation
and a partner, since January 2000, of ShareInVest. His responsibilities
include both business development and investment strategy. He joined the
Managing Owner and its affiliates in January 1990 from Morgan Stanley  
Co. Incorporated where he was a Principal and Manager of institutional foreign
exchange sales and was involved in strategic trading for the firm from October 1987
until January 1990. From September 1977 to October 1987 he was
with Chemical Bank New York Corporation ( Chemical ), first as a Senior
Economist in Chemical s Foreign Exchange Advisory Service and later as a
Vice-President and Manager of Chemical s Corporate Trading Group. While at
Chemical he also traded both foreign exchange and fixed income products. From September 1973
to September 1977 Mr. Fitzsimmons was employed by the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York, dividing his time between the International Research
Department and the Foreign Exchange Department. He graduated summa cum laude
from the University of Bridgeport, Connecticut in 1970 with a B.S. in economics.
His 

19  

graduate work was done at
the University of Virginia, where he received a certificate of candidacy for a
Ph.D. in economics in 1973.  

Barry Goodman, age 48.      Mr. Goodman is Executive Vice-President,
Director of Trading and Co-Director of Research of the Managing Owner and The
Millburn Corporation and a partner of ShareInVest . His responsibilities
include overseeing the firm s trading operation and managing its trading
relationships, as well as the design and implementation of trading systems. He
graduated   magna cum laude  
from Harpur College of the State University of New York in 1979 with a B.A. in
economics. From September 1980 through October 1982 he was a
commodity trader for E. F. Hutton   Co., Inc.  ( E.F. Hutton ). At E.F. Hutton, he also
designed and maintained various technical indicators and coordinated research
projects pertaining to the futures markets. He joined the Managing Owner and
The Millburn Corporation (including its affiliate, Millburn Partners) in November 1982
as Assistant Director of Trading. He became a partner in ShareInVest in January 1984. 

Dennis B. Newton, age 54.     Mr. Newton
is a Senior Vice-President of the Managing Owner and The Millburn Corporation. His
primary responsibilities are in administration and business development. Prior
to joining the Managing Owner and The Millburn Corporation in September 1991,
Mr. Newton was President of Phoenix Asset Management, Inc. ( Phoenix ),
a registered commodity pool operator from April 1990 to August 1991
and President of its affiliated introducing broker, Phoenix Futures Inc., from March 1990
to June 1991. Prior to his employment with Phoenix, Mr. Newton was a
Director of Managed Futures with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. ( Prudential-Bache )
from October 1987 to March 1990 and was associated with its
affiliated futures commission merchant entity, Prudential Securities Futures
Management, Inc. Mr. Newton joined Prudential-Bache from Heinold
Asset Management, Inc. ( Heinold ), and its affiliated futures commission
merchant, Heinold Commodities Inc., where he was a member of the senior
management team from October 1974 to October 1987. Heinold was a
pioneer and one of the largest sponsors of funds utilizing futures and currency
forward trading. 

Grant N. Smith, age 54.     Mr. Smith
is Executive Vice-President and Co-Director of Research of the Managing Owner
and The Millburn Corporation and a partner of ShareInVest. He is responsible
for the design, testing and implementation of quantitative trading strategies,
as well as for planning and overseeing the computerized decision-support
systems of the firm. He received a B.S. degree from the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology ( M.I.T. ) in 1974 and an M.S. degree from M.I.T. in 1975. While
at M.I.T. he held several teaching and research positions in the computer
science field and participated in various projects relating to database
management. He joined the predecessor entity to The Millburn Corporation in June 1975,
and has been continuously associated with the Managing Owner, The Millburn
Corporation and their affiliates since that time. 

Tod A. Tanis, age 51.     Mr. Tanis
is a Vice President, Principal Accounting Officer and Director of Operations of
the Managing Owner and The Millburn Corporation. He is responsible for
overseeing operations and accounting for the firm s commodity pools. He
graduated from Grove City College in May 1976 with a B.A. in accounting
and joined the Managing Owner and The Millburn Corporation in May of 1983.
Prior to joining Millburn, he was with E.F. Hutton, where he was a Manager from
December 1982 to April 1983; a Supervisor from August 1982 to December 1982;
an International Accountant from April 1979 to August 1982; and a
staff accountant from June 1978 to April 1979. As a Manager at E.F.
Hutton, he was responsible for all internal and external commodity reporting.
Mr. Tanis also served as a Junior Accountant and then International Staff
Accountant with Merrill Lynch   Company from September 1976 to May 1978. 

(c)    Identification
of Certain Significant Employees   

None.  

(d)    Family
Relationships   

None.  

(e)    Business
Experience   

20  

See
Item 10 (a,b) above.  

(f)    Involvement
in Certain Legal Proceedings   

None.  

(g)    Audit
Committee Financial Expert   

Since
the Trust has no employees, officers or directors, the Trust has no audit
committee. The Trust is managed by the Managing Owner. Gregg Buckbinder serves
as the Managing Owner s  audit committee financial expert.   Mr. Buckbinder is not independent of the
management of the Managing Owner. The Managing Owner is a privately owned
corporation managed by its shareholders. It has no independent directors.  

(h)    Code
of Ethics   

The
Trust has no employees, officers or directors and is managed by the Managing
Owner. The Managing Owner has adopted an Executive Code of Ethics that applies
to its principal executive officers, principal financial officer and principal
accounting officer. A copy of this Executive Code of Ethics may be
obtained at no charge by written request to Millburn Ridgefield Corporation,
411 West Putnam Avenue, Greenwich, Connecticut 06830 or by calling 203-625-7554
(ask for Client Services).  

Item 11.   Executive Compensation   

The
Trust has no directors or officers. None of the directors or officers of the
Managing Owner receive  other compensation  from the Trust. The Managing Owner
makes all trading decisions on behalf of the Trust. The Managing Owner receives
monthly brokerage commissions of 0.75 of 1% of the Net Assets (which is reduced
to 0.58 of 1% of Net Assets for Unitholders who invest more than $1 million in
the Trust) and a quarterly profit share of 17.5% of any new trading profit as
defined.  

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management   

(a)    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners   

The
Trust knows of no person who owns beneficially more than 5% of the Units. All
of the Trust s managing owner interest is held by the Managing Owner.  

(b)    Security Ownership of Management   

Under
the terms of the Trust Agreement, the Trust s affairs are managed by the
Managing Owner, which has discretionary authority over the Trust s trading. The
Managing Owner s managing owner interest was valued at $203,136 as of December 31,
2005, 3.38% of the Trust s total capital.  

(c)    Changes in Control   

None.  

(d)    Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans   

None.  

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

See  Item
11.  Executive Compensation   and  Item 12.  Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management .  
The Trust allocated to the Managing Owner $593,517 in brokerage fees and
$0 in profit share  

21  

for the year ended  December 31, 2005. The Managing Owners 
managing owner interest showed an allocation of gain of $19,264 for the year
ended December 31, 2005. The Trust is prohibited from making any loans.  

Item 14.   Principal
Accountant Fees and Services   

(1)                                      Audit
Fees  

The
aggregate fees for professional services rendered by Deloitte   Touche
LLP in connection with their audit of the Trust s financial statements and
reviews of the financial statements included in the quarterly reports on Form 10-Q
and in connection with the statutory and regulatory filings for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $34,300 and $25,000,
respectively.  

The
aggregate fees for professional services rendered by Ernst   Young LLP
in connection with their reviews of the financial statements included in the
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and in connection with the statutory and
regulatory filings for the year ended December 31, 2004 was approximately
$2,667.  

(2)                                      Audit-Related
Fees  

There
were no fees for assurance and related services rendered by Deloitte  
Touche LLP or Ernst   Young LLP for the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004.  

(3)                                      Tax
Fees  

The
aggregate fees for professional services rendered by Deloitte   Touche
LLP for tax compliance, advice or planning services rendered by Deloitte  
Touche LLP for the benefit of the Trust for the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004 were approximately $9,000 and $7,179, respectively.  

(4)                                      All
Other Fees  

None.  

(5)                                      Pre-Approval
Policies  

The
board of directors of the Managing Owner pre-approves the engagement of the
Trust s auditor for all services to be provided by the auditor.  

PART IV  

Item 15.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and
Reports on Form 8-K   

(a)(1)    Financial Statements   

The following are
included with the 2005 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,
a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.01.  

Affirmation
of Millburn Ridgefield Corporation  

  Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

  Statements
of Financial Condition  

  Condensed
Schedules of Investments  

  Statements
of Operations  

  Statements
of Changes in Trust Capital  

  Statements
of Financial Highlights  

  Notes
to Financial Statements  

22  

(a)(2)    Financial Statement Schedules   

All
Schedules are omitted for the reason that they are not required or are not
applicable because equivalent information has been included in the financial
statements or the notes thereto.  

(a)(3)    Exhibits as required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K   

The
following exhibits are included herewith.  

The
following exhibits are incorporated by reference from Amendment No. 1 to
the Registration Statement (File No. 33-90756) filed on June 27, 1995
on Form S-1 under the Securities Act of 1933.  

3.02  

Certificate of
  Trust of the Trust.  

10.01  

Form of
  Subscription Agreement and Power of Attorney.  

The
following exhibits are incorporated by reference from Post-Effective Amendment No. 1
to the Registration Statement (File No. 33-90756) filed on March 1,
1996 on Form S-1 under the Securities Act of 1933.  

10.02  

Selling
  Agreement among the Trust, the Managing Owner and the Principal Selling
  Agents (includes a form of Additional Selling Agent and Correspondent
  Selling Agent Agreement).  

10.03(a)  

Customer
  Agreement among the Trust, the Managing Owner and a Principal Selling Agent
  in its capacity as a futures commission merchant.  

10.03(b)  

Customer
  Agreement among the Trust, the Managing Owner and a Principal Selling Agent
  in its capacity as a futures commission merchant.  

10.04  

Escrow Agreement
  between the Trust and Chemical Bank, N.A.  

The following exhibit is incorporated by reference from
Post-Effective Amendment No. 5 to the Registration Statement (File No. 33-90756)
filed February 18, 1997 on Form S-1 under the Securities Act of 1933.  

3.01  

Amended and
  Restated Declaration of Trust and Trust Agreement  

23  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 30 th 
day of March, 2006.  

THE MILLBURN
  WORLD RESOURCE TRUST  

By:   

Millburn
  Ridgefield Corporation,  

Managing Owner  

By:  

/s/ Harvey Beker  

Harvey Beker  

Co-Chief
  Executive Officer  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Managing Owner of
the Registrant in the capacities and on the date indicated.  

Signature   

Title with 
  Managing Owner   

Date   

/s/ Harvey Beker  

Co-Chief  

March 30,
  2006  

Harvey
  Beker  

Executive
  Officer and Director  

(Principal
  Executive Officer)  

/s/ George E. Crapple  

Co-Chief Executive  

March 30, 2006  

George E.
  Crapple  

Officer and
  Director  

(Principal
  Executive Officer)  

/s/ Gregg
  Buckbinder  

Chief Financial
  and Operating Officer  

March 30,
  2006  

Gregg
  Buckbinder  

(Principal
  Financial Officer)  

/s/ Tod A. Tanis  

Vice President  

March 30, 2006  

Tod A.
  Tanis  

(Principal
  Accounting Officer)  

(Being
the principal executive officers, the principal financial officer and principal
accounting officer, and a majority of the directors of Millburn Ridgefield
Corporation)  

Millburn Ridgefield
Corporation  

  Managing Owner of
Registrant  

  March 30, 2006  

By  

/s/ Harvey Beker  

Harvey Beker  

Co-Chief
  Executive Officer  

24  

EXHIBIT INDEX  

The
following exhibits are included herewith.  

The
following exhibits are incorporated by reference from Amendment No. 1 to
the Registration Statement (File No. 33-90756) filed on June 27, 1995
on Form S-1 under the Securities Act of 1933.  

3.02  

Certificate of
  Trust of the Trust.  

10.01  

Form of
  Subscription Agreement and Power of Attorney.  

The
following exhibits are incorporated by reference from Post-Effective Amendment No. 1
to the Registration Statement (File No. 33-90756) filed on March 1,
1996 on Form S-1 under the Securities Act of 1933.  

10.02  

Selling
  Agreement among the Trust, the Managing Owner and the Principal Selling
  Agents (includes a form of Additional Selling Agent and Correspondent
  Selling Agent Agreement).  

10.03(a)  

Customer
  Agreement among the Trust, the Managing Owner and a Principal Selling Agent
  in its capacity as a futures commission merchant.  

10.03(b)  

Customer
  Agreement among the Trust, the Managing Owner and a Principal Selling Agent
  in its capacity as a futures commission merchant.  

10.04  

Escrow Agreement
  between the Trust and Chemical Bank, N.A.  

The following exhibit is incorporated by reference from
Post-Effective Amendment No. 5 to the Registration Statement (File No. 33-90756)
filed February 18, 1997 on Form S-1 under the Securities Act of 1933.  

3.01  

Amended and
  Restated Declaration of Trust and Trust Agreement  

25  

<EX-13.01>
 2
 a06-2385_1ex13d01.htm
 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EXHIBIT 13.01    

The
Millburn World Resource Trust    

Financial Statements for
the Years Ended  

  December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 and  

  Report of Independent
Registered  

  Public Accounting Firm  

THE
MILLBURN WORLD RESOURCE TRUST   

TABLE OF
CONTENTS   

AFFIRMATION OF MILLBURN
RIDGEFIELD CORPORATION   

In compliance with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission s regulations, I hereby affirm that to the
best of my knowledge and belief, the information contained in the statements of
financial condition of The Millburn World Resource Trust at December 31,
2005 and 2004, including the condensed schedules of investments, and the
related statements of operations, changes in trust capital and financial
highlights for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, are
complete and accurate.  

George E. Crapple,
Co-Chief Executive Officer  

  Millburn Ridgefield
Corporation  

  Managing Owner of The
Millburn World Resource Trust  

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

To the Unitholders of  

  The Millburn World
Resource Trust:  

We have audited the
accompanying statements of financial condition of The Millburn World Resource
Trust (the  Trust ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, including the
condensed schedules of investments, and the related statements of operations,
changes in trust capital and financial highlights for the years  then ended. These financial statements and
financial highlights are the responsibility of the Trust s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial highlights based on our audits. The financial statements and
financial highlights for the year ended December 31, 2003 were audited by
other auditors whose report dated February 17, 2004 expressed an
unqualified opinion on those statements.  

We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and
financial highlights are free of material misstatement. The Trust is not
required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal
control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal
control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Trust s internal control over financial
reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements and financial highlights, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the
financial statements and financial highlights referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of The Millburn World Resource
Trust at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations,
changes in trust capital and financial highlights for the years then ended in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.  

Deloitte  
Touche LLP  

  New York, New York  

  February 27, 2006  

THE MILLBURN WORLD RESOURCE TRUST   

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION   

   AT DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004   

See
notes to financial statements.  

2  

THE MILLBURN WORLD RESOURCE TRUST   

CONDENSED SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS   

   AT DECEMBER 31, 2005   

(Continued)  

3  

THE
MILLBURN WORLD RESOURCE TRUST   

CONDENSED
SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS   

   AT
DECEMBER 31, 2005   

U.S.
TREASURY NOTES   

See
notes to financial statements.  

(Concluded)  

4  

THE MILLBURN WORLD RESOURCE TRUST   

CONDENSED SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS   

   AT DECEMBER 31, 2004   

(Continued)  

5  

THE
MILLBURN WORLD RESOURCE TRUST   

CONDENSED
SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS   

   AT
DECEMBER 31, 2004   

U.S.
TREASURY NOTES   

See notes to financial
statements.  

(Concluded)  

6  

THE
MILLBURN WORLD RESOURCE TRUST   

STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS   

   FOR THE
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   

*               The
amount shown per unit in 2005 does not correspond with the net loss because of
the timing of redemptions of the Trust s units in relation to the fluctuating
value of the Trust s investments during 
the year. 

See
notes to financial statements.  

7  

THE
MILLBURN WORLD RESOURCE TRUST   

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN TRUST CAPITAL   

   FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND
2003   

* Additional units
are issued to Unitholders who are charged less than a 9.0% brokerage fee.  

See notes to financial
statements.  

8  

THE
MILLBURN WORLD RESOURCE TRUST   

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS   

   FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND
2003   

(a) Calculated
based on weighted average number of units during the year.  

See
notes to financial statements.  

9  

THE
MILLBURN WORLD RESOURCE TRUST   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

   YEARS
ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   

1.                         ORGANIZATION  

The
Millburn World Resource Trust (the  Trust ) was organized on June 7, 1995,
under the Delaware Business Trust Act. The Trust commenced trading operations
on September 13, 1995. The Trust engages in the speculative trading of
futures and forward currency contracts. The instruments that are traded by the
Trust are volatile and involve a high degree of market risk.  

The
managing owner of the Trust is Millburn Ridgefield Corporation (the  Managing
Owner ). The Managing Owner manages the business of the Trust and makes all
trading decisions.  

The
Managing Owner has agreed to make additional capital contributions, subject to
certain possible exceptions in order to maintain its capital account at not
less than 1% of the total capital of the Trust. The Managing Owner and the
holders of the Units of Beneficial Interest ( Units ) issued by the Trust will
share in any profits and losses of the Trust in proportion to the percentage
interest owned by each, before brokerage fees 
and profit share allocations.  

The
Trust will terminate on December 31, 2025, or at an earlier date if
certain conditions occur as defined in the Declaration of Trust and the Trust
Agreement (the  Agreement ).  

2.                         SUMMARY
OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Investments     The Trust records its transactions in futures and forward currency
contracts, including related income and expenses, on a trade date basis.  

Open
futures contracts are valued at market value and open forward currency
contracts are valued at fair value which is based on pricing models that
consider the time value of money and the current market and contractual prices
of the underlying financial instruments. Realized gains (losses) and changes in
unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on futures and forward currency
contracts are recognized in the periods in which the contracts are closed or
the changes occur, and are included in net realized and unrealized gains
(losses) in the statements of operations.  

Investments
in U.S. Treasury notes are valued at market value based on bid quotations
reported daily in The Wall Street Journal. The Trust amortizes premiums and accretes
discounts on U.S. Treasury notes using the effective interest method. Such
securities are normally on deposit with financial institutions as collateral
for performance of the Trust s trading obligations with respect to derivative
contracts and are held for safekeeping in a custody account.  

10  

Fair Value of Financial Instruments     The fair value of the Trust s assets and liabilities,
which qualify as financial instruments under Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 107,   Disclosures about Fair
Value of Financial Instruments  , approximates the carrying amounts
presented in the statements of financial condition.  

Foreign Currency Translation     Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are translated at quoted prices of such currencies. Purchases and
sales of investments are translated at the exchange rate prevailing when such
transactions occurred.  

Income Taxes     Income taxes have not been provided, as each Unitholder is
individually liable for the taxes, if any, on their share of the Trust s income
and expenses.  

Estimates     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts and disclosures reported in
the financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates.  

Right of Offset     The customer agreements between the Trust and some of
its brokers give the Trust the legal right to net unrealized gains and losses.
Unrealized gains and losses related to offsetting transactions with these
brokers are reflected on a net basis in the equity in trading accounts in the
statements of financial condition.  

3.                         TRUST AGREEMENT  

The
Trust pays brokerage fees to the Managing Owner at the annual rate of 9.0% of
the Trust s average month-end Net Assets of Unitholders  interests (prior to
reduction for accrued brokerage fees or Profit Share). The Managing Owner
retains the right to charge less than the annual brokerage rate of 9.0% to
those subscribers who either invest $1,000,000 or more in the Units or
subscribe without incurring the selling commission paid by the Managing Owner.
Brokerage fees will be charged to capital accounts of the Managing Owner, its
principals, their respective affiliates or the New Profit Memo Account only to
the extent of charges paid to third party executing and clearing brokers. In
order to maintain a uniform Net Asset Value per Unit, additional units are
issued to Unitholders who are charged less than a 9.0% brokerage fee.  

The
Managing Owner, not the Trust, will pay all routine costs of executing and
clearing the Trust s futures trades, including brokerage fees payable to the
clearing brokers. The Managing Owner also pays, from its own funds, selling
commissions on all sales of Units.  

The
Agreement provides that the Managing Owner s profit share equal to 17.5% of New
Trading Profits (as defined in the Agreement) in excess of the highest
cumulative level of Trading Profit as of any previous calendar quarter-end is
charged to the Unitholders  capital accounts. However, for Unitholders 
redemptions during the quarter, the profit share calculation shall be computed
as though the redemption date was at quarter end.  

Any
profit share charged is added to the Managing Owner s capital account to the
extent that net taxable capital gains are allocated to the Managing Owner. The
remainder of such profit share, if any, is added to the New Profit Memo
Account. The Managing Owner may not make any withdrawal from the balance
in the New Profit Memo Account. If, at the end  

11  

of a
subsequent year, net taxable gains are allocated to the Managing Owner in
excess of such year s profit share, a corresponding amount is transferred from
the New Profit Memo Account to the Managing Owner s capital account.  

The
Trust pays its legal, accounting, auditing, printing, postage and similar
administrative expenses (including the Trustee s fees and the charges of an
outside accounting services agency), as well as extraordinary costs.  

Units may be
redeemed, at the option of any Unitholder, at Net Asset Value (as defined in
the Agreement) as of the close of business on the last business day of any
calendar month on ten business days  written notice to the Managing Owner.  

4.                         DUE
FROM/TO BROKERS  

At December 31,
2005 and 2004, the due from brokers and due to brokers balances in the
statements of financial condition include cash receivable from and payable to
brokers.  

5.                         TRADING
ACTIVITIES  

The
Trust conducts its trading activities with various brokers acting either as a
broker or counterparty to various transactions. At December 31, 2005 and
2004, cash, due from brokers and Treasury notes aggregating $2,731,238 and $2,826,881,
respectively, included in the Trust s equity in trading accounts were held by
such brokers in segregated accounts as collateral as required by U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission s regulations or by the counterparty bank or broker.
Such collateral can be sold or repledged by the counterparties, at their
discretion.  

The
Trust enters into contracts with various service providers (i.e., financial
institutions, transfer agent, etc.) that contain a variety of
indemnifications. The Trust s maximum exposure under these arrangements is
unknown. However, the Trust has not had prior claims or losses pursuant to
these contracts and expects the risk of loss to be remote.  

6.                         DERIVATIVE
INSTRUMENTS  

The
Trust is party to derivative financial instruments in the normal course of its
business. These financial instruments include futures and forward currency
contracts which may be traded on an exchange ( exchange-traded contracts )
or over-the-counter ( OTC contracts ).  

The
Trust records its derivative activities on a mark-to-market basis as described
in Note 2. For OTC contracts, the Trust enters into master netting
agreements with most of its counterparties. Therefore, assets represent the
Trust s unrealized gains, less unrealized losses for OTC contracts in which the
Trust has a master netting agreement. Similarly, liabilities represent net
amounts owed to counterparties on OTC contracts.  

Futures
contracts are agreements to buy or sell an underlying asset or index for a set
price in the future. Initial margin deposits are made upon entering into
futures contracts and can be either in cash or treasury securities. Open
futures contracts are revalued on a daily basis to reflect the market value of
the contracts at the end of each trading day. Variation margin  

12  

payments
are received or made, depending upon whether unrealized gains or losses are
incurred. When the contract is closed, the Trust records a realized gain or
loss equal to the difference between the value of the contract at the time it
was opened and the time it was closed. The Trust bears the market risk that
arises from changes in the value of these financial instruments.  

Forward
currency contracts entered into by the Trust represent a firm commitment to buy
or sell an underlying currency at a specified value and point in time based
upon an agreed or contracted quantity. The ultimate gain or loss is equal to
the difference between the value of the contract at the onset and the value of
the contract at settlement date.  

Each
of these financial instruments is subject to various risks similar to those
related to the underlying financial instruments, including market risk, credit
risk and sovereign risk.  

Market
risk is the potential change in the value of the instruments traded by the
Trust due to market changes, including interest and foreign exchange rate
movements and fluctuations in futures or security prices. Market risk is
directly impacted by the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the
related underlying assets are traded. The financial instruments traded by the
Trust contain varying degrees of off-balance sheet risk whereby changes in the
market values of the futures and forward currency contracts and the Trust s
satisfaction of its obligations related to such market value changes may exceed
the amount recognized in the statements of financial condition.  

Credit
risk is the possibility that a loss may occur due to the failure of a
counterparty to perform according to the terms of a contract. Credit risk
is normally reduced to the extent that an exchange or clearing organization
acts as a counterparty to futures transactions, since typically the collective
credit of the members of the exchange is pledged to support the financial integrity of the exchange. In the
case of OTC transactions, the Trust must rely solely on the credit of the
individual counterparties. The contract amounts of the forward and futures
contracts do not represent the Trust s risk of loss due to counterparty
nonperformance. The Trust s exposure to credit risk associated with
counterparty nonperformance of these contracts is limited to the unrealized
gains inherent in such contracts, which are recognized in the statements of
financial condition, plus the value of margin or collateral held by the
counterparty. The amount of such credit risk was $1,389,599 and $1,478,206 at December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively.  

The
Managing Owner has established procedures to actively monitor market risk and
minimize credit risk, although there can be no assurance that it will, in fact
succeed in doing so. The Managing Owner s market risk control procedures
include diversification of the Trust s portfolio and continuously monitoring
the portfolio s open positions, historical volatility and maximum historical
loss. The Managing Owner seeks to minimize credit risk primarily by depositing
and maintaining the Trust s assets at financial institutions and brokers which
the Managing Owner believes to be creditworthy. The Trust s trading activities
are primarily with brokers and other financial institutions located in North
America, Europe and Asia. All futures transactions of the Trust are cleared by
major securities firms pursuant to customer agreements. For all forward
currency transactions, the Trust utilizes a single clearing broker which is a
major financial institution.  

13  

The
Trust is subject to sovereign risk such as the risk of restrictions being
imposed by foreign governments on the repatriation of cash and the effects of
political or economic uncertainties. Net unrealized appreciation (depreciation)
on futures and forward currency contracts are denominated in the functional
currency. Cash settlement of futures and forward currency contracts is made in
the local currency (settlement currency) and then translated to the functional
currency (U.S. Dollar).  

Net
unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on futures and forward currency
contracts by settlement currency type denominated in the functional currency at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, is detailed below:  

7.                         FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS  

Per
unit operating performance is calculated based on Unitholders  capital taken as
a whole. An individual Unitholder s per unit operating performance may vary
from these per unit values based on the timing of capital transactions.  

The
ratios are calculated based on Unitholders  capital taken as a whole. The
computation of such ratios based on the amount of net investment loss, total
expenses and profit share allocation to an individual Unitholder s capital
balance may vary from these ratios based on the timing of capital
transactions and differences in individual investor s brokerage fee and profit
share allocation arrangements.  

Total
return is calculated for Unitholders taken as a whole. An individual Unitholder s
total return may vary from the stated total return based on the timing of
capital transactions and differences in individual Unitholders  brokerage fee
and profit share allocation arrangements.  

  *******  

14  

</EX-13.01>

<EX-13.02>
 3
 a06-2385_1ex13d02.htm
 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

EXHIBIT 13.02   

Report of Independent
Auditors  

To the Unitholders of  

  The Millburn World Resource Trust  

We have audited the accompanying statements of financial condition of
The Millburn World Resource Trust (the  Trust ), as of December 31, 2003 and
2002, including the condensed schedules of investments, and the related
statements of operations, changes in trust capital and financial highlights for
the years then ended. These financial statements and financial highlights are
the responsibility of the Trust s management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements and financial highlights based on our
audits. The financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2001 were
audited by other auditors whose report dated February 21, 2002 expressed
an unqualified opinion on those statements.  

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
and financial highlights are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements and financial highlights. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the financial statements and financial highlights
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of The Millburn World Resource Trust at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
and the results of its operations, changes in trust capital and financial
highlights for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States.  

Ernst   Young LLP  

  New York, New York  

February 17, 2004  

</EX-13.02>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 a06-2385_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1   

CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

I, George E. Crapple, Co-Chief Executive
Officer of Millburn Ridgefield Corporation, the Managing Owner of The Millburn
World Resource Trust (the  Trust ), do hereby certify that:  

1.  I have reviewed this annual
report on Form 10-K of The Millburn World Resource Trust;  

2.  Based on my knowledge, this
annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit
to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report;  

3.  Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual
report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the Trust as of, and for, the periods
presented in this annual report;  

4. The Trust s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the Trust and have:  

(a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the Trust,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
being prepared;  

(b) evaluated the effectiveness of the Trust s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this annual report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;  

(c) disclosed in this report any change in the Trust s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Trust s most
recent fiscal quarter (the Trust s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of this
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Trust s internal control over financial reporting.  

5.  The Trust s other certifying
officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the Trust s auditors and the audit
committee of the Trust s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions):  

(a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the Trust s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and  

(b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant role in the Trust s
internal control over financial reporting.  

By: /s/ George E. Crapple  

George E. Crapple  

Co-Chief Executive Officer  

March 30, 2006  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 a06-2385_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2   

CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

I, Harvey Beker, Co-Chief Executive Officer of Millburn Ridgefield
Corporation, the Managing Owner of The Millburn World Resource Trust (the  Trust ),
do hereby certify that:  

1.  I have reviewed this annual
report on Form 10-K of The Millburn World Resource Trust ;  

2.  Based on my knowledge, this
annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit
to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report;  

3.  Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual
report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the Trust as of, and for, the periods
presented in this annual report;  

4. The Trust s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the Trust and have:  

(a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the Trust,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
being prepared;  

(b) evaluated the effectiveness of the Trust s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this annual report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;  

(c) disclosed in this report any change in the Trust s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Trust s most
recent fiscal quarter (the Trust s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of this
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Trust s internal control over financial reporting.  

5.  The Trust s other certifying
officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the Trust s auditors and the audit
committee of the Trust s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions):  

(a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the Trust s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and  

(b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant role in the Trust s
internal control over financial reporting.  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.3>
 6
 a06-2385_1ex31d3.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.3   

CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER  

I, Gregg Buckbinder, Chief Financial and Operating Officer and
principal financial officer of Millburn Ridgefield Corporation, the Managing
Owner of The Millburn World Resource Trust (the  Trust ), do hereby certify
that:  

1.  I have reviewed this annual
report on Form 10-K of The Millburn World Resource Trust;  

2.  Based on my knowledge, this
annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit
to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report;  

3.  Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual
report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the Trust as of, and for, the periods
presented in this annual report;  

4. The Trust s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the Trust and have:  

(a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the Trust,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
being prepared;  

(b) evaluated the effectiveness of the Trust s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this annual report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;  

(c) disclosed in this report any change in the Trust s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Trust s most
recent fiscal quarter (the Trust s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of this
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Trust s internal control over financial reporting.  

5.  The Trust s other certifying
officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the Trust s auditors and the audit
committee of the Trust s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions):  

(a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the Trust s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and  

(b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant role in the Trust s
internal control over financial reporting.  

By: /s/ Gregg Buckbinder  

Gregg Buckbinder  

Chief Financial and Operating Officer  

March 30, 2006  

</EX-31.3>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 a06-2385_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
32.1   

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE  

I,
George E. Crapple, the Co-Chief Executive Officer of Millburn Ridgefield
Corporation, the Managing Owner of The Millburn World Resource Trust (the  Trust ),
certify that (i) the Annual Report of the Trust on Form 10-K for the period
ending December 31, 2005 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the information
contained in such Annual Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Trust.  

Date:   

March 30, 2006  

/s/  

George E. Crapple  

George E. Crapple  

Co-Chief Executive
  Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 a06-2385_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
32.2   

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE  

I,
Harvey Beker, the Co-Chief Executive Officer of Millburn Ridgefield
Corporation, the Managing Owner of The Millburn World Resource Trust (the  Trust ),
certify that (i) the Annual Report of the Trust on Form 10-K for the period
ending December 31, 2005 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the information
contained in such Annual Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Trust.  

Date:   

March 30, 2006  

/s/  

Harvey Beker  

Harvey Beker  

Co-Chief Executive
  Officer  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-32.3>
 9
 a06-2385_1ex32d3.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
32.3   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE  

I, Gregg Buckbinder, the Chief Financial and Operating
Officer and principal financial officer of Millburn Ridgefield Corporation, the
Managing Owner of The Millburn World Resource Trust (the  Trust ), certify that
(i) the Annual Report of the Trust on Form 10-K for the period ending December
31, 2005 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the information contained in such
Annual Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the Trust.  

Date:   

March 30, 2006  

/s/  

Gregg Buckbinder  

Gregg
  Buckbinder  

Chief
  Financial and Operating Officer  

</EX-32.3>

