<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_947716_0000950144-06-003055_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>795706</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>186540</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>368902</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>54</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950144-06-003055.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331171209
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950144-06-003055
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000947716
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	LIFE INSURANCE [6311]
		IRS NUMBER:				582179041
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-23637
		FILM NUMBER:		06729948

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 1561
		CITY:			SUWANEE
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30024
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7702483311

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 1561
		CITY:			SUWANEE
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30024

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	WMA CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980519

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	WMA INTERNATIONAL CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19950707

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BmuAQbQOwOu9VD0S7Hrro4Q9t9YhicM7R5qFyCWqMAtzQxcX+K3UnSEGulPOoKF7
 rQGX7i9JmJjg4gsn6Ksf7Q==

 0000950144-06-003055.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 g00512e10vk.htm
 GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC. 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 

For the transition period from                        to                        

Commission file number 0-23637 

Global Preferred Holdings, Inc. 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) 

DELAWARE 

58-2179041  

(State or other Jurisdiction of 

(I.R.S. Employer  

Incorporation or Organization) 

Identification Number)  

c/o MORRIS MANNING   MARTIN LLP 
3343 PEACHTREE ROAD, SUITE 1600 
ATLANTA, GEORGIA 30326 
(770) 248-3311  
 (Address, Including Zip Code and Telephone Number, Including Area Code, of Registrant s Principal Executive Offices) 

Securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act: 

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered  

None

None 

Securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act: 

Common Stock, Par Value $.001  

(Title of class) 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one).

Large accelerated filer    

Accelerated filer    

Non-accelerated filer     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes     No    

The aggregate market value of the voting common stock, held by non-affiliates of the registrant as
of June 30, 2005, was approximately $23,941,438 computed on the basis of the last price at which
the common equity was sold ($10.00 per share).

At March 30, 2006, there were 4,199,149 shares of common stock outstanding.

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PART I   

Item 1.

Business

2 

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

4 

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

6 

Item 2.

Properties

6 

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

6 

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

6 

PART II   

Item 5.

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities

7 

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

7 

Item 7.

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

9 

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

23 

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

23 

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

23 

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

24 

Item 9B.

Other Information

24 

PART III   

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

** 

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

** 

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters

** 

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

** 

Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

** 

PART IV   

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

25 

EX-2.1.1 PLAN OF COMPLETE LIQUIDATION AND DISSOLUTION    
     EX-3.1.5 CERTIFICATE OF DISSOLUTION OF REGISTRANT    
     EX-10.22 THIRD RENEWAL OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.23 THIRD RENEWAL OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.24 THIRD AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.25 FOURTH RENEWAL OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT    
     EX-31.1 CERTIFICATION BY CARYL P. SHEPHERD, CAO    
     EX-32.1 CERTIFICATION BY CARYL P. SHEPHERD, CAO    

** Portions of the amendment to this Report, which the registrant intends to file no later
than 30 days from the date hereof, are incorporated by reference in Part III.

1

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Global Preferred Holdings, Inc. ( Global Preferred ) was incorporated in Delaware in 1995 as a
holding company and, until May 2005, owned all of the outstanding capital stock of Global
Preferred Re Limited ( Global Preferred Re ), and until July 2005, owned all of the outstanding
capital stock of Global Preferred Solutions, Inc. ( Global Preferred Solutions ), Global Preferred
Resources, Inc. ( Global Preferred Resources ) and Preferred Advantage Insurance Services, Inc.
( Preferred Advantage ).

Global Preferred is in the process of winding up its business and affairs, selling its
remaining assets and discharging its known liabilities.

On December 30, 2004, we entered into an agreement and plan of reorganization (the
 Reorganization Agreement ) with AEGON N.V. ( AEGON ) and GPRE Acquisition Corp. ( GAC ), a direct,
wholly owned subsidiary of AEGON, to transfer to GAC all of the outstanding shares of Global
Preferred Re. Global Preferred Re was formed in 1995 as a Bermuda company registered as a
long-term insurer under the Bermuda Insurance Act 1978.

On May 10, 2005, our stockholders authorized: (1) the sale of Global Preferred Re to GAC,
pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement and (2) the subsequent liquidation and dissolution of
Global Preferred pursuant to a plan of complete liquidation and dissolution (the  Dissolution
Plan ). On May 25, 2005, the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement were
consummated and Global Preferred received 4,503,274 shares of AEGON common stock in exchange for
all of the outstanding shares of Global Preferred Re. The Reorganization Agreement provides that,
within twelve months after closing of the asset transfer, we must dissolve and distribute all of
our remaining assets to our stockholders, after making adequate provision for our liabilities in
accordance with Delaware law.

Immediately following the sale of substantially all of our assets on May 25, 2005, we
commenced winding up our business and affairs, selling our remaining assets and discharging our
known liabilities. As a result, our operations and substantially all operating cash flows, except
for investment income and wind-up expenses, have ceased. On June 1, 2005, we filed a certificate
of dissolution with the Delaware Secretary of State. Once a corporation is dissolved under
Delaware law, its existence is automatically continued for a term of three years, or for such
longer period as the Delaware court directs, but solely for the purpose of winding up its business.

On July 6, 2005, our board of directors approved the distribution of the AEGON common shares
to our stockholders of record as of June 1, 2005. The distribution consisted of approximately 1.07
AEGON common shares for each share of Global Preferred common stock. On July 8, 2005, we initiated
the distribution of the AEGON common shares in whole shares. Fractional AEGON common shares,
remaining after the distribution of whole shares to our stockholders, were liquidated and the cash
distributed to our stockholders on December 28, 2005. Together, these distributions represent the
total consideration received by Global Preferred from AEGON for the sale of Global Preferred Re in
May 2005 and represent substantially all of the assets to be distributed to stockholders under
the Dissolution Plan.

Also on July 6, 2005, we completed the sale of our remaining subsidiaries, Global Preferred
Solutions, Global Preferred Resources and Preferred Advantage, to a company that is owned and
managed by certain of our former officers. These subsidiaries were substantially inactive. We
received $300 in consideration for these subsidiaries.

2

Table of Contents   

Business Operations Prior to Asset Sale 

While we no longer have active business operations, the following description of our business
operations prior to the asset sale is provided to aid our readers  understanding of our historical
financial statements.  

Prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re, Global Preferred, through its subsidiaries, provided
profit sharing solutions for independent marketing organizations or  IMOs  in the life insurance
and annuity industry. An IMO is an organization of independent agents that contracts with one or
more insurance companies to distribute and market securities and insurance products. These
organizations include: insurance agencies, insurance brokers, broker-dealers, banks, savings and
loans and any other group or institution that markets life insurance and annuities.

Our core business consisted of providing reinsurance on life insurance and annuity policies
produced by the independent agents of an IMO affiliate of AEGON USA, Inc. Although our reinsurance
business was directed to us through these independent agent relationships, the life insurance and
annuity policies that we reinsured were underwritten and issued by various ceding life companies.
In the insurance industry, the term  ceding  refers to the use of reinsurance to transfer from one
insurance company to another some or all of the risks associated with one or more insurance
policies. We often refer to a life insurance company that reinsured life insurance and annuity
policies through us as a  ceding life company.  The ceding life companies who issued the policies
that we reinsured were:

Western Reserve Life Assurance Co. of Ohio, a subsidiary of AEGON USA, Inc. ( Western Reserve  

American Skandia Life Assurance Corporation, a subsidiary of Prudential Financial, Inc. ( American Skandia  

Pacific Life Insurance Company ( Pacific Life  and 

Federal Kemper Life Assurance Company, a subsidiary of J.P. Morgan Chase   Co. ( Kemper ). 

Under a typical reinsurance agreement, like the ones we entered into with the above insurance
companies, the economic consequences of certain insurance risks are transferred from the ceding
life company to the reinsurer. The ceding life companies retain responsibility for the payment of
all claims, surrender values, commissions, and expenses involved in issuing and maintaining the
policies reinsured. In addition, generally the ceding life companies administer the reinsurance
contracts and, on a periodic basis, provide the reinsurer with information regarding premiums,
reserves and benefits and the amounts owed to the ceding life company for claims and settlement
expenses on the policies reinsured.

Reinsurance Relationships under Global Preferred Re 

Through Global Preferred Re, we provided reinsurance for variable universal life and variable
annuity policies issued by the four life insurance companies listed above through the agents
associated with the AEGON-affiliated IMO. Our reinsurance agreements with those ceding life
companies provided for our assumption of a portion of defined risks associated with specified
insurance and annuity products sold by certain independent agents with which we had a relationship.
Reinsurance under those agreements was automatic, meaning we were required to accept the business
ceded to us so long as the ceding life companies satisfied the terms of the reinsurance agreements.

3

Table of Contents   

The following table indicates, by ceding life company, the types of policies we previously
reinsured and the type of reinsurance applicable to each.

Type of Reinsurance  

Modified  

Ceding Life Company  
       
      Renewable Term  

Coinsurance  

Coinsurance  

Western Reserve 

Variable universal life

Variable annuity

American Skandia 

Variable annuity

Pacific Life 

Variable universal life

Kemper 

Variable universal life

Investments 

Due to the sale of Global Preferred Re and the dissolution of Global Preferred, during the
third quarter of 2005, Global Preferred restructured its investment portfolio to invest in higher
quality and shorter duration investments, United States treasury notes and bills, over the
remaining dissolution period.

Through September 2005, we utilized an independent investment manager, Conning Asset
Management Inc. ( Conning ), a subsidiary of Swiss Reinsurance Company, to invest our assets in
accordance with our investment guidelines. Conning had been engaged since June 1998, and during
that time the Investment Committee of the board of directors reviewed the performance of, and the
fees paid to, Conning. Due to the dissolution of Global Preferred and the restructuring of the
investment portfolio, effective September 30, 2005 we terminated our contract with Conning.

We are not aware of any other affiliation between us and Conning other than through Global
Preferred Re s pool retrocession agreement with Swiss Re Life   Health America, Inc. The fees paid
to Conning for services rendered during 2005 totaled $41,776.

Effective August 17, 2005, the board of directors eliminated the Investment Committee and
assumed the duties previously performed by the committee.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2005, we had two full-time employees. Caryl P. Shepherd, our chief
accounting officer, is the remaining executive officer. Neither of our employees are covered by a
collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relations with our employees to be good.

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be
carefully considered in evaluating us and our liquidation and dissolution because such factors may
have a significant impact on the execution of our plan of dissolution and the timing and amount of
liquidating distributions, if any, to our stockholders. As a result of the risk factors set forth
below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the risks discussed in our other Securities and Exchange
Commission Filings, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any
forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we now
believe to be unimportant could also impair our liquidation and dissolution. This section should
be read in conjunction with the

4

Table of Contents   

audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, and Management s Discussions and
Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations contained in this Form 10-K.

We cannot determine at this time the amount of any distributions that will be made to our
stockholders or the timing of any such distributions, because there are many factors, some of which
are outside of our control, that could affect our ability to make distributions to our
stockholders.  

We cannot determine at this time the amount of distributions to our stockholders because that
determination depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the cost of operating
Global Preferred during the dissolution, the amount of our debts, liabilities and obligations to be
paid in the future, and other contingent liabilities, general business and economic conditions and
other matters. The amount of distributions to our stockholders is subject to a number of
uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Examples of uncertainties that could reduce
the value of distributions to our stockholders include the following:

increases in the amount of our liabilities and obligations or estimated costs and
expenses of the operation of Global Preferred until the dissolution is completed; 

liabilities of Global Preferred that are unknown or contingent which later arise or
become fixed in amount and must be satisfied or reserved for as part of the dissolution;
and 

delays in the dissolution that could result in additional expenses and result in
reductions of distributions to our stockholders. 

Furthermore, we cannot provide any assurances that we will actually make additional
distributions. Actual results may vary from our current estimates and we may not yield liquidating
distributions equal to or greater than those projected.

The timing of any future possible distributions of cash, if any, is uncertain.  

We are currently unable to predict the precise timing of further
distributions, if any, pursuant to our wind down. The timing of distributions, if any, will depend on and could be delayed by, among other
things, unforeseen claims against us.

We continue to incur costs and expenses, which reduce the amount available for distribution to
stockholders.  

Costs and expenses from operations (such as operating costs, salaries, directors  and
officers  insurance, severance and payroll, taxes, legal, accounting and auditing fees and
miscellaneous office expenses) will continue to be incurred as we wind down. These expenses will
reduce the amount of assets available for ultimate distribution to stockholders. If available cash
and securities are not adequate to provide for our obligations, liabilities, expenses and claims,
we may not be able to distribute significant amounts of cash, or any cash at all, to our
stockholders. In order to reduce expenses associated with reporting obligations, we have
requested relief from the Securities and Exchange Commission from the reporting requirements under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We anticipate, that if such relief is not granted, we will be
required to continue to incur the costs for such reporting.

Our stockholders may be liable to creditors of Global Preferred for an amount up to the amount of
distributions received from Global Preferred pursuant to the Dissolution Plan if our reserves for
payments to creditors are inadequate.  

We filed a certificate of dissolution with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on
June 1, 2005, since that time our operations have been limited to winding-up its business and
affairs, disposing of our remaining assets, discharging our liabilities and distributing to our
stockholders the AEGON shares. In addition, we may prosecute any lawsuits or claims, and could be
subject to lawsuits for at least three years after the certificate of dissolution was filed. We
have already completed the distributions of AEGON common shares to our stockholders. A
determination was made that we had sufficient assets to satisfy liabilities and obligations to
creditors, which have been withheld as a settlement reserve. If the settlement reserve created for
payment of our expenses and liabilities fails to be adequate to meet our liabilities during this
three-year period, each Global Preferred stockholder could be held liable for payment to our
creditors of such stockholder s pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the
settlement reserve and any available insurance proceeds. The liability of a Global Preferred
stockholder would be limited to the amounts previously received from us by such stockholder. In
such an event, a Global Preferred stockholder could be required to return all distributions
previously made to such stockholder in respect of its shares of our common stock. Moreover, in the
event a stockholder has paid taxes on amounts previously received in respect of its shares of our
common stock, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a stockholder
incurring a net tax cost if the stockholder s repayment of an amount previously distributed does
not cause a

5

Table of Contents   

commensurate reduction in taxes payable. It is possible that a stockholder could receive
nothing from us under the Dissolution Plan if our actual liabilities and obligations, including
unanticipated claims, should exceed the value of such assets or the value of the AEGON common
shares. There can be no assurance that the settlement reserve established by Global Preferred will
be adequate to cover any expenses and liabilities. However, we intend to continue to exercise
caution in making any additional distributions to stockholders in order to minimize this type of
risk.

You are unable to transfer your Global Preferred shares.  

On June 1, 2005, with the filing of its certificate of dissolution with the Delaware secretary
of state, we closed our stock transfer record books as permitted under Delaware law. We no longer
recognize any transfers of shares of our stock, except by will, intestate succession or otherwise
by operation of law, thereby eliminating the liquidity in those shares, other than the liquidity
resulting from distributions made by us.

We are substantially dependent upon the continued services of our remaining executive officer.  

We currently have one remaining executive officer, our Chief Accounting Officer. We are still
substantially dependent upon the continued services of this officer and the loss of her services
could adversely affect our liquidation activities and force us to incur additional expenses to
identify and retain a replacement.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

Not applicable.

Item 2. Properties 

In October 2005, we terminated our lease agreement for office space in Duluth, Georgia. We do
not currently own or lease any properties and do not anticipate acquiring or leasing any
properties.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings 

We are not a party to any material legal proceedings.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

During the fourth quarter of 2005, no matters were submitted to our security holders for a vote.

6

Table of Contents   

PART II 

Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities. 

No public trading market existed for our common stock during 2005 and we did not repurchase
any of our common stock in 2005. During 2005, we had no issuances of unregistered securities. In
addition, our stock transfer records were closed on June 1, 2005 in accordance with Delaware law as
a result of the filing of the certificate of dissolution.

At March 30, 2006, we had 4,199,149 shares of common stock outstanding held by 965
stockholders of record.

We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock during 2004 or 2005. In
July 2005, our board of directors approved the distribution of all of the AEGON common shares
received by us as the consideration under the Reorganization Agreement. Our board of directors
plans to distribute any remaining cash to its stockholders, after making estimates for anticipated
liabilities in accordance with Delaware law. The declaration of any such distributions in the
future would be subject to the discretion of the board of directors, which may consider such
factors as our financial condition, contingent liabilities and expenses, and any contractual or
other legal restrictions.

For a discussion of restrictions on the payment of dividends by Global Preferred Re, refer to
Note 10 to the Financial Statements.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data 

The following table sets forth selected financial data and other operating information. The
selected financial data have been derived from our consolidated financial statements and should be
read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes and
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  included
elsewhere herein.

On May 25, 2005, Global Preferred completed its sale of Global Preferred Re, which comprised
substantially all of its assets, to AEGON for 4,503,274 shares of AEGON common stock. As a result,
our operations and substantially all operating cash flows, except for investment income and wind-up
expenses have ceased. Effective May 26, 2005, Global Preferred adopted the liquidation basis of
accounting. The asset sale resulted in no further premium or reinsured policy revenues after May
25, 2005. Additionally, no benefits, claims and expenses, change in future policy benefits,
reinsurance expense allowances, net, or amortization of deferred acquisition costs were incurred
after May 25, 2005. The selected financial data for the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005 are not
comparable to the prior years ended December 31 due to the shortened reporting period.

7

Table of Contents   

8

Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in
conjunction with  Selected Financial Data  and the financial statements and accompanying notes
included elsewhere in this report.

Overview 

Global Preferred was incorporated in Delaware in 1995 as a holding company and, until May
2005, owned all of the outstanding capital stock of Global Preferred Re, and until July 2005, owned
all of the outstanding capital stock of Global Preferred Solutions, Global Preferred Resources and
Preferred Advantage. Global Preferred Re was formed during 1995 as a Bermuda company registered as
a long-term insurer under the Bermuda Insurance Act 1978. Global Preferred Solutions, Global
Preferred Resources and Preferred Advantage were formed during 2003.

Global Preferred is in the process of winding up its business and affairs, selling its
remaining assets and discharging its known liabilities.

Plan of Liquidation 

On December 30, 2004, we entered into the Reorganization Agreement with AEGON and GAC to
transfer to GAC all of the outstanding shares of Global Preferred Re. On May 10, 2005, our
stockholders authorized: (1) the sale of Global Preferred Re to GAC and (2) the subsequent
liquidation and dissolution of Global Preferred pursuant to the Dissolution Plan. On May 25, 2005,
the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement were consummated whereby Global
Preferred received 4,503,274 AEGON common shares in exchange for all of the outstanding shares of
Global Preferred Re.

The Reorganization Agreement provides that, no more than twelve months after closing of the
transaction with AEGON, we must dissolve and distribute all remaining AEGON common shares received
pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement and any of our other remaining assets to our stockholders,
after making adequate provision for our liabilities in accordance with Delaware law. Since the sale
of substantially all of our assets on May 25, 2005, our operations have been limited to winding up
our business and affairs, selling our remaining assets and discharging our known liabilities.

On June 1, 2005, we filed a certificate of dissolution with the Delaware Secretary of State.
Once a corporation is dissolved under Delaware law, its existence is automatically continued for a
term of three years, or for such longer period as the Delaware Court of Chancery directs, but
solely for the purpose of winding up its business. The process of winding up includes: (1) the
prosecution and defense of lawsuits, if any; (2) the settling and closing of any business; (3) the
disposition and conveyance of any assets and property; (4) the discharge of any liabilities; and
(5) the distribution of any remaining assets to the stockholders.

Liquidation Basis of Accounting, including Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The accompanying consolidated statements of income and cash flows for the 145 day period ended
May 25, 2005 have been presented on a going concern basis consistent with prior periods, which
assumes the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of
business. Effective May 26, 2005, we adopted the liquidation basis of accounting.

Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are recorded at their estimated net
realizable values and liabilities are recorded at their estimated settlement amounts and include
estimates for future operating costs and settlement reserves during the liquidation period. The
valuation of assets and liabilities requires many estimates and assumptions by management and there
may be substantial uncertainties in carrying out the provisions of the Dissolution Plan. In all
instances, actual results could vary from those estimates. Information included elsewhere herein,
including Note 2 of the Financial Statements, includes a summary of the critical accounting
policies used in the preparation of our liquidation basis financials. It is anticipated that
distributions ultimately made to stockholders upon liquidation will differ from the  net assets in
liquidation  recorded in the accompanying statement of net assets in liquidation as a result of the
actual proceeds received from the realization of assets and the ultimate settlement amount of our
liabilities and obligations.

9

Table of Contents   

Upon changing to the liquidation basis of accounting on May 26, 2005, we recorded an $8.4
million increase to net assets, which included a charge of $6.7 million of estimated future
operating costs and settlement reserves during liquidation.

The following represents the estimated future operating costs and settlement reserves during
liquidation:

Settlement reserves and other estimated costs of liquidation represent management s best
estimate of the anticipated costs to settle expected claims against Global Preferred that result
from the plan of reorganization and ultimate dissolution. Periodically, the board of directors
reviews management s estimates and makes adjustments to the estimated future operating costs and
settlement reserves as deemed necessary.

Status of Liquidation 

On July 6, 2005, our board of directors approved the distribution of all of the AEGON common
shares received by us pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement, to our stockholders of record as of
June 1, 2005. The distribution consisted of approximately 1.07 AEGON common shares for each share
of Global Preferred common stock. On July 8, 2005, we initiated the distribution of the AEGON
common shares in whole shares. Fractional AEGON common shares remaining from the distribution of
the whole shares were liquidated and the cash totaling approximately $8,000 was distributed to our
stockholders on December 28, 2005. Together, these distributions represent the distribution of all
of the consideration received by Global Preferred from AEGON for the sale of Global Preferred Re in
May 2005 and represent substantially all of the assets to be distributed to stockholders under the
Dissolution Plan.

The distribution of the AEGON common shares was recorded in the liquidation basis financial
statements during the third quarter of 2005 at a value of $12.87 per share which was equal to the
market value per share as of June 30, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, Global Preferred had 911
AEGON common shares which were being held on behalf of stockholders who had not claimed their
ownership. Those shares were recorded as dividends payable in the liquidation basis financial
statements as of December 31, 2005 at $16.32 per share, the market value as of that date, along
with the cash dividends received from AEGON for those remaining shares. These remaining shares and
cash aggregating approximately $15,000 were distributed in January 2006.

On July 6, 2005, we entered into transition agreements with certain of our former executive
officers. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, each of these officers resigned as an officer
of Global Preferred, but continued as an employee until August 19, 2005 to assist with the wind-up
and dissolution of Global Preferred. In addition, the transition agreements amended the employment
agreement of each of the respective executive officers to modify the restrictive covenants of the
employment agreement to permit such employee to own and participate in the operations of a
non-affiliated company formed by those executive officers. As disclosed in their respective
transition agreements, the severance amounts shall be paid in accordance with our regular payroll
practices, provided that (i) Global Preferred may, in its sole discretion, at any time elect to pay
any remaining installments in a lump sum and (ii) Global Preferred agrees that any installments
remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer of the remaining assets of Global Preferred to a
liquidating trust will be paid to those officers prior to such transfer. The severance amounts
remaining to be paid to those certain executive officers as of December 31, 2005 total $757,000.

10

Table of Contents   

Additionally, on July 6, 2005, Global Preferred completed the sale of its remaining
subsidiaries, Global Preferred Solutions, Global Preferred Resources, and Preferred Advantage, to a
company that is owned and managed by certain of our former officers. These subsidiaries were
substantially inactive. We received $300 in consideration for these subsidiaries which was
recorded as an increase in net assets in liquidation as part of the adjustment for changes in fair
value of invested assets.

Business Operations Prior to Asset Sale  

Prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re, Global Preferred, through its subsidiaries, provided
profit sharing solutions for the life insurance and annuity industry. While we no longer have
active business operations, the following description of our business operations prior to the asset
sale is provided to aid our readers  understanding of our historical financial statements.

Our principal business objective was to align the long-term interests between independent
marketing organizations and life insurance companies. Both the IMOs and insurers benefited from
mutually rewarding relationships based on aligned interests, a dedication to improving the quality
of business written, and a focus on managing insurance and distribution risk for long-term economic
rewards.

Our core business consisted of providing reinsurance on business that resulted from a
relationship with the independent agents of an IMO affiliate of AEGON USA, Inc. Although our
reinsurance business was directed to us through these independent agent relationships, the life
insurance and annuity policies that we reinsured were underwritten and issued by various ceding
life companies. We wrote three types of reinsurance on a quota share basis: renewable term,
coinsurance and modified coinsurance.

Under a typical reinsurance agreement, like the ones we entered into with the various
insurance companies for which we reinsured policies, the economic consequences of certain insurance
risks are transferred from the ceding life company to the reinsurer. Depending upon the type of
reinsurance agreement, these risks included mortality, persistency, investment and expense. The
ceding life companies retain responsibility for the payment of all claims, surrender values,
commissions, and expenses involved in issuing and maintaining the policies reinsured. In addition,
generally the ceding life companies administer the reinsurance contracts and, on a periodic basis,
provide the reinsurer with information regarding premiums, reserves and benefits and the amounts
owed to the ceding life company for claims and settlement expenses on the policies reinsured.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions regarding
uncertainties that affect certain amounts in the consolidated financial statements on a going
concern basis. Accounts that we deemed to be sensitive to changes in estimates for those amounts
reported through May 25, 2005 included reinsurance settlements, deferred acquisition costs and
future policy benefits. In all instances, actual results could have differed from estimates. A
summary of significant accounting policies is included in Note 2 to the Financial Statements.

Income Statement  

Reinsurance Revenues.  For renewable term reinsurance, we recorded as  premiums  the amount of
reinsurance premiums we received over the payment periods of the reinsured policies. For policies
reinsured on a coinsurance or modified coinsurance basis, we recorded as  reinsured policy
revenues  our proportionate share of the gross revenues received by the ceding life company over
the payment periods of the reinsured policies. These revenues represented the policy mortality and
expense charges, asset-based fees and deferred sales charges that had been assessed against the
reinsured policy account balances.

Reinsurance Expenses.  Regardless of the type of reinsurance, our related expenses may have
included: (1) benefits, claims and settlement expenses, which represented our share of the payments
made under the reinsured policies during the period, the change in claims in the course of
settlement and the change in claims incurred but not reported; (2) expense allowances paid to the
ceding life company for expenses associated with the reinsured policies,

11

Table of Contents   

including commissions and costs associated with underwriting, marketing, policy issue and
maintenance; and (3) amortization of deferred acquisition costs, which are discussed in more detail
below.

Net Income.  Our profitability, in part, depended on the volume of policies reinsured and the
experience of the reinsured policies. Factors that affected the experience of the policies
included reinsured policy persistency, death claims and investment performance of the separate
account balances. While death claims were reasonably predictable over a period of years, claims
become less predictable over shorter periods, and were subject to fluctuation from quarter to
quarter and year to year. Similarly, separate account investment returns, upon which a significant
portion of our revenues depended, may have had relatively stable returns over a period of years but
could be volatile over shorter periods.

Balance Sheet  

Deferred Acquisition Costs.  We capitalized and deferred costs that varied with and were
primarily related to the acquisition of the reinsured policies. These expenses were deferred to the
extent that such costs were deemed recoverable from future policy revenues and were recorded as
deferred acquisition costs on the balance sheet. Such costs included reinsurance expense allowances
paid to ceding life companies, and may have included other underwriting costs such as actuarial,
legal and accounting fees.

Deferred acquisition costs were amortized over the lives of the underlying policies, in
conformity with the terms of the reinsurance agreement. Under the renewable term agreements,
deferred acquisition costs were amortized in proportion to the premium revenue related to the
mortality risk reinsured. Such premium revenue was estimated using the same assumptions used for
computing liabilities for future policy benefits.

Under the coinsurance and modified coinsurance agreements, the amortization of the deferred
acquisition costs was in proportion to the ratio of gross profits recognized during the then
current period to total actual and future expected gross profits. During each accounting period,
assumptions used in calculating the amortization of deferred acquisition costs reflected actual
experience for the then current accounting period. We also reviewed, on a periodic basis, our
evolving experience concerning our assumptions with regard to mortality, persistency, investment
yields and expenses in determining our estimate of anticipated future gross profits.

Future Policy Benefits.  Liabilities for future benefits on life insurance policies were
established in an amount we estimated were adequate to meet the estimated future obligations on the
policies in effect. Policy reserves were included in  future policy benefits  on the consolidated
balance sheet.

Liabilities for future policy benefits under the renewable term agreements included provisions
for expected future claims. The liability was estimated using assumptions such as estimates of
expected investment yields, mortality, persistency and expenses applicable at the time the
reinsurance contracts were executed.

Liabilities for future policy benefits under coinsurance and modified coinsurance agreements
were equal to reinsured policy account balances on the underlying life insurance and annuity
policies. With regard to the separate account benefits reinsured on a modified coinsurance basis,
we recorded the liabilities as an offset to related assets as our intentions and rights under the
agreements with the ceding life companies met the appropriate conditions governing rights of
setoff.

Liabilities for future policy benefits under our reinsurance agreements may have included
provisions for claims that had been incurred but had not yet been paid. A portion of these claims
represented claims reported to us that were in the course of settlement. The remainder of this
liability represented claims that may have been incurred but not yet reported to us.

Liabilities for future policy benefits reflected in the consolidated financial statements were
based on information provided to us by the ceding life companies. Reserves established by us with
respect to individual risks or classes of business may not have been the same as those established
by ceding life companies due to differing risks and assumptions regarding mortality, persistency,
investment and expenses.

12

Table of Contents   

Fair Value Disclosure 

Investments.  Prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re, we classified all fixed maturity
securities and equity securities that were not classified as trading securities as  available for
sale.  Such securities were reported at fair value. Fixed maturity securities available for sale
were so classified based upon the possibility that such securities could have been sold prior to
maturity if that action enabled us to execute our investment philosophy and appropriately match
investment results to operating and liquidity needs. Equity securities available for sale were so
classified because we did not intend to actively trade such securities nor hold them to maturity.
Unrealized gains and losses on marketable equity securities and fixed maturity securities available
for sale, less applicable deferred income taxes, were reported as a separate component of
 accumulated other comprehensive income  within stockholders  equity. Investment income was
recognized as it accrued or became legally due. Other equity investments, classified as trading
securities, were bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term.
Unrealized gains and losses on trading securities were reported as a separate revenue component on
the income statement.

Realized gains or losses on sales of investments were included in income, as were write-downs
of securities where declines in value were deemed to be other-than-temporary. In determining
whether a decline in market value on our fixed income securities was other-than-temporary, we
considered the cause of the impairment, the length of impairment, the amount of impairment as a
percentage of the fair value of the security and other relevant information about the issuer or
security. Although we utilized an independent investment manager to invest and manage our assets
in accordance with our investment guidelines, we had the ability and intent to hold these
securities until a forecasted recovery of fair value was at least equal to the amortized cost or
until maturity. The cost of investment securities sold was determined based upon the specific
identification method.

Other Financial Assets and Liabilities.  The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents,
reinsurance receivables and payables, short-term debt, accrued expenses and accounts payable
approximated their fair values due to the short-term nature of these accounts. The carrying value
of future policy benefits approximated its fair value as credited interest approximates current
market rates.

Reinsurance Agreements under Global Preferred Re 

The life insurance and annuity policies that we reinsured were underwritten and issued by
Western Reserve, American Skandia, Kemper and Pacific Life. The following table indicates the
percentage of our reinsurance revenues derived from these ceding life companies:

13

Table of Contents   

The following table indicates, by ceding life company: (1) the names and types of
insurance products reinsured by Global Preferred Re prior to the sale; (2) the type of reinsurance
agreement applicable to each; (3) policy issue dates reinsured under each agreement; and (4) the
commencement date of the reinsurance.

(1) 
       
      VUL  means variable universal life product.  VA  means variable annuity product. 

(2) 
       
      MRT  means monthly renewable term.  YRT  means yearly renewable term.  Co/Modco  means
coinsurance and modified coinsurance. 

Under our reinsurance agreements with the ceding life companies, we reinsured variable
life insurance and variable annuity policies on either a renewable term basis or a coinsurance and
modified coinsurance basis. The policies we reinsured on a renewable term basis represented 59% of
our reinsurance revenues for the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005. The policies we reinsured on
a coinsurance and modified coinsurance basis represented 41% of our reinsurance revenues for the
same period. Of the 41%, 57% related to variable life insurance policies and 43% related to
variable annuity policies.

Results of Operations 

On May 25, 2005, Global Preferred completed its sale of Global Preferred Re, which comprised
substantially all of its assets, to AEGON for 4,503,274 shares of AEGON common stock. As a result,
our operations and substantially all operating cash flows, except for investment income and wind-up
expenses have ceased. Effective May 26, 2005, Global Preferred adopted the liquidation basis of
accounting as opposed to preparing our financial statements on a going concern basis under
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The asset sale resulted
in no further premium or reinsured policy revenues after May 25, 2005. Additionally, no benefits,
claims and expenses, change in future policy benefits, reinsurance expense allowances, or
amortization of deferred acquisition costs were incurred after May 25, 2005. Accordingly, results
of operations for the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005 are not comparable to the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2004 due to the shortened reporting periods. Results of operations do not
reflect adjustments recorded upon the change to the liquidation basis of accounting adopted on May
26, 2005.

The results of operations for the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005, were compared with the
six month period ended June 30, 2004, in Global Preferred s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended June 30, 2005. Due to the conversion of Global Preferred s financial
accounting to liquidation basis accounting beginning on May 26, 2005, and the fundamentally
different nature of Global Preferred s operations following that date, a comparison of the results
of operations for the period ended May 25, 2005 to the year ended December 31, 2004 would not be
meaningful.

14

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth certain operating data as a percentage of total revenue for the
periods indicated:

During the period May 26 through December 31, 2005, our operations were limited to collecting
investment income on our assets, paying operating expenses and costs of liquidation, and making
distributions to our stockholders.

Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 

Revenues  

Premiums.  Premiums decreased $292,000, or 2%, from $17.4 million for the year ended December
31, 2003 to $17.1 million for the same period in 2004. The majority of the premium decrease was
due to the decreasing business in force under our renewable term agreements, which is partially
offset by an increase in the average premium per policy. Policies in force are decreased because
the number of policy surrenders and lapses exceeded the number of new policies reinsured. Average
premiums per policy increase as policyholders age.

Reinsured Policy Revenues.  Reinsured policy revenues decreased $264,000, or 2%, from $12.8
million for the year ended December 31, 2003 to $12.5 million for the same period in 2004. This
decrease was primarily attributable to the effect of policy surrender activity for our variable
annuity business, which is partially offset by an increase in mortality and expense charges and
asset-based fees resulting from an increase in average reinsured policy account balances in 2004.

Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2004, reinsured policy revenues reflected an
increase of $130,000 of reinsurance fees resulting from payments to us from Western Reserve to
resolve certain settlement differences in the administration of our variable universal life
coinsurance and modified coinsurance reinsurance agreements. These settlement adjustments also
resulted in a decrease in benefits, claims and settlement expenses, a decrease in reinsurance
expense allowances, net and an increase in amortization of deferred acquisition costs of $63,000,
$73,000 and $178,000, respectively, for a total increase in income before income tax of $88,000.

Net Investment Income.  Net investment income increased $442,000, or 109%, from $407,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2003 to $849,000 for the same period in 2004, primarily due to the
increased average size of our fixed maturity and equity securities portfolio during 2004 as
compared to the average size of our fixed maturity and equity securities portfolio in 2003. The
increase in our fixed maturity and equity securities portfolio resulted from

15

Table of Contents   

the purchase of $16.8 million of fixed maturity and equity securities during 2003, most of
which occurred in the latter half of the year, and $6.8 million of fixed maturity securities
purchased during 2004.

Net Realized Gains   Loss on Investments.  The sale of $3.0 million of fixed maturity and
equity securities available for sale for the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted in a net
realized loss on investments of $27,000 and was primarily due to an increase in market yields since
the securities were purchased. The sale of $421,000 of fixed maturity and equity securities
available for sale for the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted in a net realized gain on
investments of $21,000 and was primarily due to a decline in market yields since the securities
were purchased.

Net Unrealized Gain on Investments.  For the year ended December 31, 2004, we had $549,000 of
other equity investments classified as trading securities, which resulted in an unrealized gain on
investments of $49,000. There were no other equity investments classified as trading securities
for the year ended December 31, 2003, thus no unrealized gains or losses were recognized in income
during such period.

Benefits and Expenses 

Benefits, Claims and Settlement Expenses.  Benefits, claims, and settlement expenses decreased
$2.4 million, or 26%, from $9.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 to $6.9 million for
the same period in 2004. The decrease was primarily associated with a lower incidence of death
claims in 2004 compared to the incidence of death claims in 2003. The decline in benefits, claims,
and settlement expenses was primarily due to lower claims in 2004 than historic averages as
compared to higher than historic average claims experienced in 2003 and the declining aggregate
face value of insurance, which was partially offset by the increasing age of the policies
reinsured. The aggregate face value of insurance underlying the policies we reinsured at December
31, 2003 was $7.6 billion compared to $7.0 billion at December 31, 2004.

Change in Future Policy Benefits.  Change in future policy benefits decreased $409,000, or
38%, from $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 to $645,000 for the same period in
2004. The decrease resulted from the aging of the policies and the decrease in business in force
reinsured on a renewable term basis.

Reinsurance Expense Allowances, Net.  Net reinsurance expense allowances decreased $450,000,
or 6%, from $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 to $7.7 million for the same period
in 2004. This decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in business in force, partially
offset by an increase in reinsurance expense allowances associated with an increase in policy
account balances. Policy account balances increased primarily because of positive separate account
fund yields and premiums and deposits, which were partially offset by policy surrender activity.

Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs.  Amortization of deferred acquisition costs
increased $672,000 or 12%, from $5.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 to $6.2 million
for the same period in 2004. The increase in amortization primarily resulted from higher gross
profits in 2004 primarily due to lower death claims, and increases in rates of amortization since
policy account balances remained below our long-term expectations.

Operating Expenses.  Operating expenses decreased $60,000, or 2%, from $3.4 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003 to $3.3 million for the same period in 2004. These expenses include
salaries and benefits, professional fees for legal, actuarial and accounting fees and other
operating expenses. The decline resulted from an overall decrease in operating expenses resulting
from increased operating efficiency, partially offset by increased consulting and legal fees
relating to the Reorganization Agreement.

Interest Expense.  Interest expense decreased $158,000, or 42%, from $375,000, for the year
ended December 31, 2003 to $217,000 for the comparable period in 2004. The decrease was due to the
repayment on July 29, 2004 of the $5 million promissory note, plus outstanding interest, due to
Money Services, Inc., a subsidiary of AEGON USA, Inc.

Income Taxes.  Due to higher levels of income before income taxes, income taxes increased
$572,000, or 57%, from $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 to $1.6 million for the
same period in 2004. The  small life insurance company deduction  available under Section 806 of
the Internal Revenue Code for qualifying life insurance companies can reduce the effective federal
income tax rate from 34% to less than 20% depending upon

16

Table of Contents   

the amount of current taxable income. Based upon our taxable income in 2004, we estimated our
effective tax rate to be 28% for 2004, as compared to 34% in 2003. The tax rate in 2004 reflected
a $315,000 benefit from the small life insurance company deduction. In 2003, our taxable income was
not sufficient to take advantage of the small life insurance company deduction.

In accordance with Statements of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 109,  Accounting
for Income Taxes , we have $1.3 million of net operating loss carry-forwards, which would have begun
to expire in 2018. These net operating loss carry-forwards at a 34% effective tax rate had been
included as an offset to the deferred tax liability. With the sale of Global Preferred Re, these
assets were transferred to AEGON.

Quarterly Results of Operations 

The following tables present certain unaudited quarterly consolidated statements of income
data on a going concern basis through the sale of Global Preferred Re on May 25, 2005, as well as
the percentage of total revenue represented by each item. The information had been derived from
the unaudited consolidated financial statements. The unaudited consolidated financial statements
on a going concern basis had been prepared on substantially the same basis as the audited
consolidated financial statements on a going concern basis contained herein and all adjustments,
consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, which we considered to be necessary to present
fairly this information when read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and
notes thereto appearing elsewhere herein.

17

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth, as a percentage of total revenue, certain line items in the consolidated statements of income for the periods indicated:

Historically, our operations and related revenues and operating results varied
substantially from quarter to quarter. A high percentage of our operating expenses, particularly
personnel, marketing and rent were relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter.

Investments 

Due to the sale of Global Preferred Re and the dissolution of Global Preferred, during the
third quarter of 2005, we restructured our investment portfolio to invest in higher quality and
shorter duration investments over the remaining dissolution period. We sold our remaining fixed
maturity securities for $2.4 million and used the proceeds to purchase United States treasury
notes. Additionally, cash of $2.1 million was used to purchase $2.1 million of United States
treasury bills, which are classified as cash equivalents.

As of December 31, 2005, we had invested assets totaling $4.3 million, at net realizable
value. Due to the sale of Global Preferred Re, the amounts are not comparable from 2005 to prior
years. The table below shows the aggregate amounts of fixed maturity securities, equity
securities, cash and cash equivalents, and reinsured policy loans comprising our portfolio of
invested assets:

18

Table of Contents   

As of December 31, 2005, the fixed maturity portion of our invested asset portfolio has an
average Moody s quality rating of Aaa, an average duration of less than 2 years and an average
yield to maturity of 3.7% before investment expenses.

The following table summarizes the fair value of our invested assets at the dates indicated.

The following table summarizes the fair value by contractual maturities of our fixed maturity
securities portfolio at the dates indicated.

The following table summarizes the composition of the fair value of our fixed maturity
securities portfolio at the dates indicated by rating as assigned by S P or Moody s, using the
higher of these ratings for any security where there is a split rating.

Segment Reporting 

Prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re, we had defined our reportable segments based on the
nature of our reinsurance agreements and the accounting treatment used for the various reinsurance
agreements. For definitions of these segments and associated financial information, refer to Note
14 of the Financial Statements.

19

Table of Contents   

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

As of December 31, 2005, our primary sources of liquidity are $2.4 million in fixed maturity
securities held for sale and $1.8 million in cash and cash equivalents. The effective duration of
our fixed maturity portfolio is less than 2 years with 100% of the fixed maturity securities having
an effective maturity of less than 3 years. Our fixed maturity portfolio represents 57% of our
total invested assets, and has an average Moody s quality rating of Aaa.

Since May 26, 2005, our operations have been limited to winding-up our business and affairs,
selling our remaining assets and discharging our known liabilities. The Reorganization Agreement
provides that, within twelve months after closing of the asset transfer, we must dissolve and
distribute all of our remaining assets to our stockholders, after making adequate provision for our
liabilities in accordance with Delaware law.

On July 6, 2005, our board of directors approved the distribution of all of the AEGON common
shares to our stockholders of record as of June 1, 2005. As of June 1, 2005, Global Preferred had
4,199,149 shares of common stock outstanding. The distribution consisted of approximately 1.07
AEGON common shares for each share of Global Preferred common stock. On July 8, 2005, we initiated
the distribution of the AEGON common shares in whole shares. Fractional AEGON common shares
remaining after the distribution of the whole shares were liquidated and the cash totaling
approximately $8,000 was distributed to our stockholders on December 28, 2005. Together, these
distributions represent the distribution of all the consideration received by Global Preferred from
AEGON for the sale of Global Preferred Re in May 2005 and represent substantially all of the
assets to be distributed to stockholders under the Dissolution Plan.

As of December 31, 2005, Global Preferred had 911 AEGON common shares, which were being held
on behalf of stockholders who had not claimed their ownership. On January 5, 2005, the remaining
911 AEGON common shares were distributed. Our board of directors plans to distribute any remaining
cash to our stockholders, after making adequate provision for its liabilities in accordance with
Delaware law. We expect that it will be necessary to retain a portion of our liquid assets to pay
liabilities that may arise after completion of the dissolution; therefore, our board of directors
intends to transfer a portion of our assets to a liquidating trust. The liquidating trust will
permit Global Preferred to dissolve and, as required under Delaware law, have assets still
available to be applied to liabilities after the dissolution. In accordance with the
Reorganization Agreement, if the board of directors determines to transfer assets to a liquidating
trust, then the transfer must occur on or before May 25, 2006.

Due to the sale of Global Preferred Re, the dissolution of Global Preferred and the adoption
of liquidation basis of accounting effective May 26, 2005, the cash flows for the 145 day period
ended May 25, 2005 are compared below to the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004. The
statements of cash flows do not reflect adjustments recorded upon the change to the liquidation
basis of accounting adopted on May 26, 2005.

Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 Compared to the 145 Day Period Ended May 25, 2005 

Operating Cash Flows.  Net cash flows provided by operating activities were $10.8 million and
$9.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, respectively and $3.1 million for the
145 day period ended May 25, 2005. Cash flows provided by operations in the shortened period in
2005 related primarily to policies previously in force because we utilized less cash to acquire new
reinsurance business than was provided by in force business.

Cash flows provided by operations in 2004 related to new policies reinsured under coinsurance
and modified coinsurance reflected net payments of $69,000 to Western Reserve to reinsure policies
issued in 2004, and cash flows provided by operations for policies previously in force under
coinsurance and modified coinsurance and by all policies reinsured under renewable term reinsurance
of $14.2 million. Other cash flows used in operating activities of $5.0 million in 2004 were the
result of cash payments for operating expenses, income taxes and interest expenses.

Cash flows provided by operations in 2003 related to new policies reinsured under coinsurance
and modified coinsurance reflected net payments of $156,000 to Western Reserve to reinsure policies
issued in 2003, and cash flows provided by operations for policies previously in force under
coinsurance and modified coinsurance and by all policies reinsured under renewable term reinsurance
of $12.0 million. Other cash flows used in operating activities of $1.0 million in 2003 were the
result of cash payments for operating expenses and interest expenses.

20

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the components of operating cash flows.

Investment Cash Flows.  Net cash flows (used in) provided by investing activities were ($15.0
million) and ($3.2 million) for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, respectively, and $1.3
million for the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005. The cash flows provided by investing activities
in the shortened period in 2005 primarily related to the sale and call of $1.5 million of fixed
maturity securities offset by the decrease in reinsured policy loans of $205,000. The cash flows
used in investing activities of $3.2 million in 2004 primarily related to our purchase of $6.8
million of fixed maturity securities, which was partially offset by the sale of $1.0 million of
fixed maturity securities and $2.0 million of equity securities and the maturities and principal
payments of $700,000 on fixed maturity securities. The cash flows used in investing activities of
$15.0 million in 2003 primarily related to our purchase of $14.3 million of fixed maturity
securities and $2.5 million of equity securities. We incurred no significant capital expenditures
during 2005.

Financing Cash Flows.  Financing cash flows related primarily to activities associated with
our capital position. Net cash flows used in financing activities were zero and $5.0 million for
the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, respectively and $11 for the 145 day period ended May
25, 2005. Cash flows used in financing activities in 2004 related to the principal payment due to
Money Services for the five-year term note. There were no cash flows provided by or used in
financing operations in 2003.

Restrictions.  Prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re, Global Preferred relied primarily on
funds retained at the holding company level, management service fees from its subsidiaries and
potential dividends from Global Preferred Re to meet ongoing cash requirements. The ability of
Global Preferred Re to pay dividends to Global Preferred was subject to, among other things,
regulatory restrictions under the insurance laws of Bermuda, which are discussed in Note 10 to the
Financial Statements. In addition, the Reorganization Agreement specified that while the agreement
was in effect, Global Preferred Re could not pay Global Preferred cumulative dividends in excess of
$6,384 per day and cumulative management fees in excess of $8,000 per day. As of March 31, 2005,
Global Preferred Re had estimated total statutory capital and surplus of approximately $28.4
million, which included an estimated $13.1 million available for distribution as dividends without
seeking regulatory approval. During the year ended December 31, 2005, Global Preferred Re paid
$932,064 in dividends to Global Preferred.

Prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re, under our reinsurance agreements, we were required
to provide security through a letter of credit for the benefit of the ceding life companies. We had
three letters of credit issued by Comerica Bank, our custodian, for the benefit of Western Reserve,
Pacific Life and Kemper, in the amounts of $5.5 million, $50,000 and $300,000, respectively. We
assessed our letter of credit needs in support of each reinsurance agreement.

Contractual Obligations and Commitments 

The following table shows our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31,
2005, which are reported in the statement of net assets in liquidation as accrued
expenses and accounts payable or estimated future operating costs. None of these commitments were
assumed by AEGON in connection with the sale of Global Preferred Re. We paid the last payments for
the office lease and operating leases in September 2005. No further amounts are due under the
office and operating leases. The severance payments and benefits are due to those employees that
have been terminated or that will be terminated in the near future as a result of the sale of
Global Preferred Re and subsequent dissolution of Global Preferred.

21

Table of Contents   

Further information is included elsewhere herein and in Note 11 to the Financial Statements.

Currency 

Prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re on May 25, 2005, we had written all of our
reinsurance business in U.S. dollars.

Inflation 

The effects of inflation have not had a material impact on our operations or the conduct of
our business. Inflationary trends are typically countered by a tightening monetary policy by the
U.S. Federal Reserve, resulting in increases in interest rates. Rapid and severe interest rate
increases could have a significant and negative impact on the value of our fixed income portfolio.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We have no obligations, assets or liabilities other than those disclosed in our financial
statements, no trading activities involving non-exchange traded contracts accounted for at fair
value, and no relationships and transactions with persons or entities that derive benefits from
their non-independent relationship with us or our related parties.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

For a discussion of certain recently issued accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 2 to the
Financial Statements.

Forward-Looking Statements 

Certain statements made in this report are  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are subject to the  safe-harbor 
provisions of that Act. Additionally, any written or oral statements made by us or on our behalf
may include forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events
and financial performance. These statements may include, but are not limited to statements relating
to reinsurance revenues, gross profits, cash flows, and net income in future periods. Such
statements often include the words  believes,   expects,   assumes,   predicts,   continue, 
 potential,   should,   could,   can,   may,   will,   proposes,   anticipates,   intends, 
 plans,   estimates,   projects,  and variations or negations of such expressions or similar
expressions. When we make forward-looking statements, we are basing them on our management s
beliefs and assumptions, using information currently available to us. Because such forward-looking
statements involve risks, both known and unknown, and uncertainties, there are important factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such
forward-looking statements, including but not limited to:

The timing of any distributions of remaining assets and the impact
of distributions on the adequacy of reserves available to pay
costs and expenses arising during liquidation; 

Estimates of our cash requirements and costs of liquidation; 

Estimates of our asset values, including future investment income; 

Estimates of our settlement reserve during liquidation; 

The assertion of unforeseen claims against us; 

The passage of federal or state legislation subjecting our
business to additional supervision or regulation, including
additional tax regulation, in the United States or other
jurisdictions in which we operate; and 

Changes in economic conditions, including interest rate and equity
market conditions, which could affect our investment portfolio. 

22

Table of Contents   

These forward-looking statements are subject to change and uncertainty that are beyond our
control and have been made based upon our expectations and beliefs concerning future developments
and their potential effect on our business. We cannot assure you that future developments will be
in accordance with our expectations or that the effect of future developments will be those we
anticipate. Actual results could differ materially from those we expect, depending upon the outcome
of certain factors, including those described in the forward-looking statements. We caution readers
not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their
dates. We have described some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ
materially from our expectations in  Risk Factors  included elsewhere herein. You should carefully
review these risks and additional risks described in other documents we file from time to time with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, including quarterly reports on the Form 10-Q. Except as
otherwise required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or
revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Our exposure to market risk related to changes in interest rates is primarily due to our
highly liquid investments. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve
principal for our stockholders while maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. Our
investment portfolio of $4.3 million at December 31, 2005 includes cash maintained primarily in a
money market account, cash equivalents held in United States treasury bills and fixed income
securities held in United States treasury notes, which are subject to changes in market values with
changes in interest rates. At the present time, we have no financial instruments in place to
manage the impact of changes in interest rates or equity market prices.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

The following financial statements are attached hereto commencing on page F-1.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

On November 12, 2004, Deloitte   Touche LLP resigned as our independent registered public
accounting firm, effective following completion of its services related to the review of our
interim financial statements for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2004. The
resignation was the sole decision of Deloitte   Touche LLP. The
audit report of Deloitte & Touche LLP on our
consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003, did not contain
any adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor was it qualified or modified as to uncertainty,
audit scope or accounting principles.

23

Table of Contents   

In connection with the audit of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 and the subsequent
interim period through November 12, 2004, there were no disagreements with Deloitte   Touche LLP on
any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which
disagreements, if not resolved to Deloitte   Touche LLP s satisfaction, would have caused Deloitte
  Touche LLP to refer to the subject matter of the disagreements in connection with their report.

On November 30, 2004, the Audit Committee engaged Marcum   Kliegman LLP as our independent
registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2004. During the two
most recent fiscal years and through the date of engagement, neither we nor anyone engaged on our
behalf has consulted with Marcum   Kliegman LLP on items regarding either (1) the application of
accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed; or the type of
audit opinion that might be rendered on the Registrant s financial statements; or (2) any matter
that was either the subject of a disagreement (as defined in Item 304(a)(1)(iv) of Regulation S-K)
with our former auditor or reportable event (as defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K).

Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls 

A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not
absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent
limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that
all control issues, if any, within the company have been detected. Our disclosure controls and
procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving our objectives. Our chief
accounting officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer) concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at that
reasonable level.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 

As of the most recent fiscal quarter end, we carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of
our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined by Rule 13a-14(c) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934) under the supervision and with the participation of our chief accounting officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer). Based
on and as of the date of such evaluation, the aforementioned officer has concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective, in all material aspects, to ensure that
information required to be disclosed in the reports we file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission is recorded, processed, summarized and reported as and when required.

There were no significant changes in our internal controls or other factors that could
significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date our chief accounting officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer) carried out
her evaluation. There were no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses identified in the
evaluation and, therefore, no corrective actions were taken.

Item 9B. Other Information 

None.

24

Table of Contents   

PART III 

The information required by Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III will be included by
amendment to this Report to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 30 days from the date hereof.

PART IV 

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

(a) 
       
     The following documents are filed or incorporated by reference as part of this Form 10-K. 

1. The audited consolidated financial statements of Global Preferred Holdings, Inc. and the
related reports of independent registered public accounting firms listed in the Index to
Financial Statements appearing on page F-1.

2. The exhibits filed as part of this report as required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are
included in the Index to Exhibits appearing on page E-1.

25

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC. 

By:

/s/ CARYL P. SHEPHERD 

Caryl P. Shepherd 

Chief Accounting Officer  

Date: March 31, 2006

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/ CARYL P. SHEPHERD

Chief Accounting Officer and

March 31, 2006 

Caryl P. Shepherd

Vice
President (Principal Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer) 

/s/ JOSEPH F. BARONE

Chairman of the Board of Directors

March 31, 2006 

Joseph F. Barone

and
Director 

/s/ MILAN M. RADONICH

Director

March 31, 2006 

Milan M. Radonich

/s/ C. SIMON SCUPHAM

Director

March 31, 2006 

C. Simon Scupham

/s/ THOMAS W. MONTGOMERY

Director

March 31, 2006 

Thomas W. Montgomery

/s/ EDWARD F. MCKERNAN

Director

March 31, 2006 

Edward F. McKernan

26

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO EXHIBITS 

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  

2.1

Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of December 30, 2004, by and among AEGON
N.V., GPRE Acquisition Corp. and Global Preferred Holdings, Inc. (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 2.1 to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 4, 2005). 

2.1.1

Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution of the Registrant, dated as of April 5, 2005. 

3.1

Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant s Registration Statement on Form SB-2 filed on June 28, 1995). 

3.1.1

Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, changing the
name of the Company to  The WMA Corporation  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1.1 to
Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, filed on
May 15, 1998). 

3.1.2

Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, increasing the
number of authorized shares of common stock and creating a new class of authorized shares of
preferred stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1.1 to Registrant s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-QSB for the quarter ended June 30, 1999, filed on August 16, 1999). 

3.1.3

Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, changing the
name of the Company to  Global Preferred Holdings, Inc.  (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the quarter ended September
30, 2001, filed on November 14, 2001). 

3.1.4

Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, decreasing the
number of authorized shares of common stock and preferred stock and reducing the par value of
the preferred stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-QSB for the quarter ended June 30, 2003, filed on August 14, 2003). 

3.1.5

Certificate of Dissolution of Registrant filed June 1, 2005 with the State of Delaware. 

3.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed on February 22, 2002). 

4.1

Revised Specimen Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed on February 22, 2002). 

10.1

Global Preferred Holdings, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan and Form of Stock Option Grant
Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 to Registrant s Registration Statement
on Form S-1, filed on February 22, 2002). 

10.2

Global Preferred Holdings, Inc. Directors Stock Option Plan and Form of Stock Option Grant
Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to Registrant s Registration Statement
on Form S-1, filed on February 22, 2002). 

10.3

Form of Officer and Director Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.40 to Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1, filed on February 22, 2002). 

10.4

Employment Agreement by and between the Registrant and Edward F. McKernan, effective January
1, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.41 to Registrant s Registration Statement on
Form S-1, filed on February 22, 2002). 

10.5

Employment Agreement by and between the Registrant and Caryl P. Shepherd, effective February
1, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to Registrant s Registration Statement on
Form S-1/A, filed on March 29, 2002). 

10.6

Form of Stock Option Grant Certificate for S. Hubert Humphrey, Jr. (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant s Form 8-K, filed on February 22, 2002). 

10.7

Employment Agreement by and between the Registrant and Bradley E. Barks, effective March 4,
2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.45 to Registrant s Registration Statement on
Form S-1/A, filed on March 29, 2002). 

10.8

First Amendment to Employment Agreement by and between the Registrant and Bradley E. Barks,
effective July 30, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002, filed on November 14, 2002). 

27

Table of Contents   

28

Table of Contents   

29

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC. 
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Page  

F-1

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors

Global Preferred Holdings, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying statement of net assets in liquidation of Global Preferred
Holdings, Inc. (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2005 and the related
consolidated statement of changes in net assets in
liquidation of the Company and its subsidiaries for the period from May 26, 2005 to December 31, 2005. We have also audited the
consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004, and the consolidated statements of income,
stockholders  equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for the period from January 1, 2005
to May 25, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004. Our audit also included the consolidated
financial statement schedule for the period from January 1, 2005 to May 25, 2005 and the year ended
December 31, 2004. The consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule
based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its
internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control
over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An
audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made
by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As described in Note 1 to the financial statements, the stockholders of Global Preferred Holdings,
Inc. approved a plan of liquidation on May 10, 2005, and the Company commenced liquidation shortly
thereafter. As a result, the Company has changed its basis of accounting for periods subsequent to
May 25, 2005 from the going concern basis to the liquidation basis.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the net assets in liquidation of the Company as of December 31, 2005,
the changes in net assets in liquidation of the Company and its
subsidiaries for the period from May 26, 2005 to December 31, 2005, the
consolidated financial position of the Company and subsidiaries as of December
31, 2004, and the results of their operations and cash flows for the period from January 1, 2005 to
May 25, 2005, and for the year ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the related consolidated
financial statement schedule for the period January 1, 2005 to May 25, 2005 and for year ended
December 31, 2004, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/ Marcum   Kliegman LLP

Melville, New York 
March 31, 2006

F-2

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

The Board of Directors

Global Preferred Holdings, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of income (going concern basis),
stockholders  equity and comprehensive income (going concern basis) and cash flows (going concern
basis) for the year ended December 31, 2003 of Global Preferred Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries
( Global Preferred ). These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of Global
Preferred s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the 2003 consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the results of operations and cash flows of Global Preferred Holdings,
Inc. and its subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia

March 29, 2004

F-3

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC. 

Statement of Net Assets in Liquidation 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL
PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Consolidated Balance Sheet 
(Going Concern Basis) 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets in Liquidation 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Consolidated
Statements of Income 

(Going Concern Basis) 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

F-7

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL
PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income 
(Going Concern Basis) 
Years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 and Period from January 1, 2005 to May 25, 2005 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

F-8

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
(Going Concern Basis) 

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

F-9

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

1. 
       
     Organization and Wind Up of Business 

Global Preferred Holdings, Inc. ( Global Preferred ) was formed March 9, 1995 as an insurance
holding company. The consolidated financial statements presented on the going concern basis
(financial statements for periods on or before May 25, 2005) include the assets, liabilities and
results of operations of Global Preferred Holdings, Inc. ( Global Preferred ) and its wholly owned
subsidiaries, Global Preferred Re Limited ( Global Preferred Re ), Global Preferred Solutions,
Inc., Global Preferred Resources, Inc. and Preferred Advantage Insurance Services, Inc. Global
Preferred Re is a Bermuda company registered as a long-term insurer under the Bermuda Insurance Act
1978.

Global Preferred was formed principally to provide an opportunity for independent agents
associated with an independent marketing organization to participate indirectly in the reinsurance
of the policies they sell. Until December 31, 2004, Global Preferred s core business consisted of
providing reinsurance facilities and services necessary to establish, manage and maintain
reinsurance relationships between independent marketing organizations ( IMOs ) and life insurance
companies. An IMO is an organization of independent agents that contracts with one or more
insurance companies to distribute and market securities and insurance products. Many of the
individual agents that purchased equity in Global Preferred were associated with World Financial
Group, Inc., an IMO affiliate of AEGON USA, Inc., and who collectively own a significant portion of
the outstanding common stock of Global Preferred. To date, the agents associated with World
Financial Group, and its predecessor, have sold all life insurance and annuity policies reinsured
by Global Preferred.

On December 30, 2004, Global Preferred announced that it had entered into an agreement and
plan of reorganization (the  Reorganization Agreement ) with AEGON N.V. ( AEGON ) and its wholly
owned subsidiary, GPRE Acquisition Corp. ( GAC ). On May 10, 2005, Global Preferred s stockholders
authorized: (1) the sale of its wholly owned subsidiary, Global Preferred Re, to GAC, pursuant to
the Reorganization Agreement and (2) the subsequent liquidation and dissolution of Global Preferred
pursuant to a plan of complete liquidation and dissolution (the  Dissolution Plan ). On May 25,
2005, the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement were consummated and Global
Preferred received 4,503,274 shares of AEGON common stock, with a fair market value of $58.9
million, in exchange for all of the outstanding shares of Global Preferred Re.

Immediately following the sale of substantially all of its assets on May 25, 2005, Global
Preferred commenced winding-up its business and affairs, selling its remaining assets and
discharging its known liabilities. As a result, Global Preferred s operations and substantially
all operating cash flows, except for investment income and wind-up expenses have ceased. On June
1, 2005, Global Preferred filed a certificate of dissolution with the Delaware Secretary of State.
Once a corporation is dissolved under Delaware law, its existence is automatically continued for a
term of three years, or for such longer period as the Delaware Court of Chancery directs, but
solely for the purpose of winding up its business. The process of winding up includes: (1) the
prosecution and defense of lawsuits, if any; (2) the settling and closing of any business; (3) the
disposition and conveyance of any property; (4) the discharge of any liabilities; and (5) the
distribution of any remaining assets to the stockholders. In conjunction with the filing of the
certificate of dissolution, Global Preferred closed its stock transfer record books as permitted
under Delaware law.

On July 6, 2005, Global Preferred s board of directors approved the distribution of all of the
AEGON common shares to Global Preferred s stockholders of record as of June 1, 2005. As of June 1,
2005, Global Preferred had 4,199,149 shares of common stock outstanding. The distribution
consisted of approximately 1.07 AEGON common shares for each share of Global Preferred common
stock. On July 8, 2005, Global Preferred initiated the distribution of the AEGON common shares in
whole shares. Fractional AEGON common shares, remaining after the distribution of whole shares to
each of Global Preferred s stockholders, were liquidated and the cash distributed to the
stockholders in December 2005. Together, these distributions represent the total consideration
received by Global Preferred from AEGON for the sale of Global Preferred Re in May 2005 and
represent a substantial part of the assets to be distributed to stockholders under the Dissolution
Plan. Global Preferred plans to distribute any
remaining cash to its stockholders, after making adequate provision for its liabilities in
accordance with Delaware law. Global Preferred expects that it will be necessary to retain a
portion of its liquid assets to pay liabilities that may arise after completion of the dissolution;
therefore, Global Preferred s board of directors intends to transfer a portion of its assets to a
liquidating trust. The liquidating trust will permit Global Preferred to dissolve and, as required
under

F-10

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

Delaware law, have assets still available to be applied to liabilities after the dissolution.
In accordance with the Reorganization Agreement, if Global Preferred determines to transfer assets
to a liquidating trust, then the transfer must occur on or before May 25, 2006.

On July 6, 2005, Global Preferred completed the sale of its remaining subsidiaries, Global
Preferred Solutions, Inc., Global Preferred Resources, Inc. and Preferred Advantage Insurance
Services, Inc., to a company that is owned and managed by certain former officers of Global
Preferred. These subsidiaries were substantially inactive and had no net book value. Global
Preferred received $300 in consideration for these subsidiaries which was recorded as an increase
in net assets in liquidation as part of the adjustment for changes in fair value of invested
assets.

The Reorganization Agreement was structured to constitute a reorganization within the meaning
of Internal Revenue Code Section 368(a)(1)(C). As such, Global Preferred did not recognize any
taxable gain on the sale of Global Preferred Re to AEGON nor were there any tax consequences to Global
Preferred as a result of the distribution of the AEGON common shares to Global Preferred s
stockholders.

2. 
       
     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Basis of Presentation . The financial statements of Global Preferred have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America ( GAAP ). The accompanying historical consolidated statements of income and cash flows for
the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 and the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005 have been
presented on a going concern basis consistent with prior periods. The consolidated financial
statements included the assets, liabilities and results of operations of Global Preferred and its
wholly owned subsidiaries. As a result of the transactions described in Note 1, Global Preferred
adopted the liquidation basis of accounting effective May 26, 2005. Accordingly, the financial
statements presented on a going concern basis for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 and
for the period ended May 25, 2005 are not comparable to the financial statements presented on a
liquidation basis as of and for the period ended December 31, 2005.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure
of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Accounts under the going concern
basis of accounting that Global Preferred deemed to be sensitive to changes in estimates included
deferred acquisition costs and future policy benefits. Estimates under liquidation basis of
accounting include, but are not limited to, estimated future operating costs, which represent the
estimate of costs to be incurred during liquidation, and settlement reserves. Actual results could
differ from those estimates.

LIQUIDATION BASIS OF ACCOUNTING

Effective May 26, 2005, Global Preferred adopted the liquidation basis of accounting. Under
the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are recorded at their estimated net realizable values
and liabilities, including the estimated cost to liquidate, are recorded at their estimated
settlement amounts. In accordance with the Dissolution Plan, management is required to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the valuation of the assets and liabilities reported at the
date of the financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates. The amount
and timing of future liquidating distributions will depend upon a variety of factors including, but
not limited to, the ultimate settlement amounts of Global Preferred s liabilities and obligations,
actual costs incurred in connection with carrying out the Dissolution Plan including administrative
costs during the liquidation period, and the timeframe it takes to complete the liquidation.

F-11

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

Estimated Net Realizable Value of Assets in Liquidation.  The estimated net realizable
value of assets of Global Preferred that are set forth in the accompanying  Statement of Net Assets
in Liquidation  are presented on the following basis:

Cash and cash equivalents are stated at fair value. At times, cash balances held in
financial institutions may be in excess of federally insured amounts. Cash balances held
in money market funds are not insured. Cash equivalents consist of United States treasury
bills. 

Fixed maturity securities consist of United States treasury notes and represent
estimated net sales proceeds less the costs of disposal. 

Equity securities consist of 911 AEGON common shares, which are held on behalf of
stockholders who have not claimed their ownership. The AEGON common shares were valued at
$13.07 per share as of the close of business on May 25, 2005 when received by us pursuant
to the Reorganization Agreement and are valued at $16.32 per share as of December 31, 2005. 

Miscellaneous receivables represent receivables due to Global Preferred by employees,
stockholders and third-party service providers. 

Current income tax recoverable represents an overpayment of 2005 estimated taxes paid in
2005. 

Fixed assets are assets being utilized by Global Preferred such as furniture and office
equipment stated at net realizable value. 

Estimated future investment income was projected by management based upon prevailing
interest rates, anticipated investment portfolio composition and future expected cash flows
based upon the estimated timeframe to complete the liquidation. 

Estimated Settlement Amount of Liabilities in Liquidation.  The estimated liabilities
of Global Preferred that are set forth in the accompanying  Statement of Net Assets in Liquidation 
are presented on the following basis:

Accrued expenses and accounts payable include all current amounts due that remain unpaid
for recurring administrative costs and for refunds of payments made to us in error by
third-party service providers. 

Dividends payable include the AEGON common shares yet to be distributed (as discussed
above) as of December 31, 2005 at $16.32 per share and cash dividends received from AEGON
for those remaining shares which are also to be distributed. 

Estimated future operating costs and settlement reserves during liquidation were
recorded on May 26, 2005 when Global Preferred adopted the liquidation basis of accounting
and include all estimated future amounts that remain unpaid for liquidation activities. 

GOING CONCERN BASIS OF ACCOUNTING

The accompanying historical consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2004 and the
statements of income and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 and the 145 day
period ended May 25, 2005 have been presented on the going concern basis of accounting which
assumes the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of
business. All significant inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated. Prior
to the sale of Global Preferred Re, the significant accounting policies for the historical
financial statements were as follows:

Investments  .  Global Preferred classified all fixed maturity securities and equity
securities, not classified as trading securities, as  available for sale.  Such securities were
reported at fair value. Fixed maturity securities available for sale were so classified based
upon the possibility that such securities could be sold prior to maturity if that action enabled
Global Preferred to execute its investment philosophy and appropriately match investment results to
operating and liquidity needs. Equity securities were classified as available for sale.
Unrealized gains and losses on marketable equity securities and fixed maturity securities available
for sale, less applicable deferred income taxes, were reported as a separate component of
accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders  equity. Other equity investments,
classified as trading securities were bought and held principally for the
purpose of selling them in the near term and were reported at fair value. Unrealized gains
and losses on trading securities were reported as a separate revenue component on the income
statement.

F-12

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

Global Preferred s policy under going concern basis of accounting was to reflect an
other-than-temporary impairment in securities investments when the fair value of these securities
was lower than the cost basis for an extended period of time. Any such impairment identified would
result in a write-down of the cost basis of the individual security to its fair value to establish
a new cost basis and to reflect a realized capital loss in the consolidated statements of income.
No impairments in value occurred which would have required Global Preferred to make such an
adjustment.

Investment income was recognized as it accrued or was legally due. Income on mortgage-backed
securities included amortization and accretion of purchase premiums and discounts using a method
that approximated a level yield, taking into consideration assumed prepayment patterns. The
retrospective adjustment method was used to adjust for prepayment activity. Realized gains and
losses on investments using the specific identification method were included in income.

Fair Value Disclosure  .  The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, reinsurance
receivables and payables, accounts receivables and payables, accrued expenses and short-term debt
approximated their fair values due to the short-term nature of these accounts. Taking into
consideration the basis of reinsurance under the reinsurance agreements, the carrying value of
future policy benefits approximated its fair value. See Note 4 for fair value information
concerning Global Preferred s investment portfolio.

Cash and Cash Equivalents  .  Cash and cash equivalents included cash on hand and on
deposit and investments with original maturities of three months or less. Cash and cash
equivalents may have also included cash in transit from the sale of securities at year-end.

Deferred Acquisition Costs  .  Costs of acquiring new business, which varied with and
were primarily related to the production of new business, have been deferred to the extent that
such costs were deemed recoverable from future revenues. Such costs included reinsurance expense
allowances paid to ceding life companies, and may have included certain other underwriting costs,
such as actuarial, legal and accounting fees. Deferred acquisition costs ( DAC ) were amortized
over the lives of the underlying policies with regard to the terms of the reinsurance agreements.

On those policies reinsured under a renewable term agreement, deferred acquisition costs were
amortized in proportion to the premium revenue related to the mortality risk reinsured. Such
premium revenue was estimated using the same assumptions used for computing liabilities for future
policy benefits. Such assumptions included estimates of expected investment yields, mortality,
persistency and expenses applicable at the time the policies were reinsured. Original assumptions
on renewable term business continued to be used in subsequent accounting periods, to determine
changes in the deferred acquisition costs, unless a premium deficiency existed. Under the
renewable term agreements, the amortization was in proportion to the ratio of premiums collected
during the then current period to total anticipated premiums and was adjusted to reflect actual
persistency of the insurance in force.

For policies reinsured under a coinsurance or modified coinsurance agreement, deferred
acquisition costs were amortized in proportion to gross profits associated with mortality margins,
investment margins, surrender charges and expense margins reinsured. Management periodically
reviewed Global Preferred s assumptions concerning future experience with regard to mortality,
persistency, investment yields and expenses to determine its estimates of future gross profits.
Upon adoption of any change in assumptions used with regard to future experience, the amortization
of Global Preferred s deferred acquisition costs was recalculated and adjustments, if any, were
reflected during the then current accounting period.

Reinsurance Expense Allowances  .  Allowances generally represented a percentage of each
reinsurance premium that was paid or allowed by Global Preferred to the ceding life company for
each policy reinsured in recognition of commissions and other expenses associated with the
reinsured policies. These other expenses related
to costs associated with underwriting, marketing, policy issue and maintenance. The
reinsurance expense allowances represented Global Preferred s share of acquisition and maintenance
expenses incurred by the ceding life

F-13

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

company that were attributable to the risks reinsured.
Allowances were shown net of amounts deferred as policy acquisition costs.

Fixed Assets  .  Fixed assets were stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation was calculated on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
related assets, which ranged from three to seven years.

Future Policy Benefits  .  Liabilities for future benefits on life insurance policies
reinsured on a renewable term basis were established in an amount believed to be adequate to meet
the estimated future obligations on policies in force. Liabilities for future policy benefits
under long-term life insurance policies have been computed based on estimates of investment yields,
mortality and withdrawal rates expected at the time the policies were reinsured, and other
assumptions including estimates for incurred but not reported claims. These assumptions included a
margin for adverse deviation and varied with the characteristics of the plan of insurance, year of
issue, age of insured and other appropriate factors. The assumptions for estimated investment
yields were based upon various factors including then current yields on Global Preferred s
investment portfolio and market rates for new investments. Interest rates used in estimating
future policy benefits ranged from 5.5% to 7.0% at the time the policies in force were reinsured.
The mortality and withdrawal assumptions were based on Global Preferred s experience, industry
experience and industry standards. Policy and contract reserves were included in the liability for
future policy benefits on the consolidated balance sheet.

Liabilities for future policy benefits under the coinsurance and modified coinsurance
agreements were equal to reinsured policy account balances on the underlying life insurance
policies and annuity contracts. With regard to the separate account benefits reinsured on a
modified coinsurance basis, Global Preferred recorded such liabilities as an offset to related
assets as its intentions and rights under the agreements with the ceding life companies met the
appropriate conditions governing rights of setoff. The nature of separate account benefits under
variable life insurance policies or variable annuity contracts did not permit Global Preferred to
reinsure those benefits on a coinsurance basis. Global Preferred reinsured the fixed account
portion of annuity contracts and life insurance polices only on a coinsurance basis and,
accordingly, the liabilities for that portion of the reinsurance were recorded as future policy
benefits.

Income Taxes . Global Preferred used the asset and liability method to record deferred
income taxes. Accordingly, deferred tax assets and liabilities were recognized for the future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, using an effective federal tax rate
of 34%. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes 
specifically excludes recognition of the  small life insurance company deduction  available under
Section 806 of the Internal Revenue Code for qualifying life insurance companies. This special
deduction can reduce the effective federal income tax rate from 34% to less than 20% depending upon
the amount of taxable income.

Recognition of Revenues and Related Expenses  .  Reinsurance premiums received under the
renewable term agreements were recognized as revenue over the premium paying periods of the
reinsured policies. Benefits and expenses were associated with earned premiums so that profits
were recognized over the life of the related contract. This association was accomplished through
the provision for future policy benefits and the amortization of deferred acquisition costs. Other
revenue consisted of non-recurring items other than reinsurance premiums or investment earnings and
was recognized upon completion of the related earnings process.

Reinsured Policy Revenues  .  Reinsured policy revenues were recognized as earned and
represented the policy mortality and expense charges, cost of insurance charges net of retrocession
reinsurance premiums, policy administration charges, asset-based allowances and deferred sales
charges that were assessed against the reinsured policy account balances under the coinsurance and
modified coinsurance agreements.

Earnings Per Share . Basic earnings per share were computed based on the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, in accordance with SFAS No.
128,  Earnings Per Share . Diluted
earnings per share were computed based on the total weighted-average number of common and
common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. The dilutive effect of the 258,282 stock
options outstanding on May 25, 2005

F-14

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

was computed using the treasury stock method and was not
significant to Global Preferred s financial statements for the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005.
Global Preferred had 281,875 stock options outstanding on December 31, 2004. The dilutive effect
of these options was not significant to Global Preferred s financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 2004 and was anti-dilutive for the year ended December 31, 2003.

Global Preferred also considered the convertible note issued to Money Services, Inc., which
was repaid in 2004 in its diluted earnings per share calculation. For the year ended December 31,
2003, the incremental shares issued and the income impact upon the conversion of the convertible
note were excluded because they would have been anti-dilutive.

Stock Compensation Plan . Global Preferred s employee stock incentive plan and
directors stock option plan (the  stock option plans ) were accounted for under the intrinsic value
recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , and related Interpretations. The application of APB No.
25 did not result in significant compensation expense for the years ended 2003 and 2004 and for the
145 day period ended May 25, 2005. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and
earnings per share if Global Preferred had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS
No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , to the stock option plans as of the dates
reported.

For purposes of this pro-forma disclosure, the estimated fair value of the options is assumed
to be amortized as a stock-based compensation expense over the options  vesting periods.

Common Stock.  There was one share of common stock issued during the period from
January 1, 2005 to May 25, 2005 from the exercise of a stock option. There were 57,464 shares of
common stock issued on May 27, 2005 to Global Preferred s employees and directors to settle the
outstanding options on a net basis in conjunction with the sale of Global Preferred Re. No other
changes to common stock occurred during 2003 or 2004.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements . In December 2004, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued a revision to SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  as SFAS
No. 123R,  Share-Based Payment . The provisions of SFAS No. 123R are effective as of the beginning
of the first annual reporting period that begins after December 15, 2005. The issuance of SFAS No.
123R has no impact on Global Preferred s financial statements due to the settlement of the
outstanding options on May 27, 2005 and the termination of the stock option plans as of July 1,
2005.

F-15

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

3. 
       
     Liquidation Basis of Accounting 

Pursuant to the Dissolution Plan, on May 26, 2005 Global Preferred commenced an orderly
wind-down of its operations. The actions taken since that time included negotiating the severance
of most of the remaining employees, identifying outstanding and potential liabilities and
estimating the administrative and professional costs to complete the wind-up of Global Preferred s
affairs. These actions resulted in a charge of $6.7 million for estimated future operating costs
and settlement reserves during liquidation, consisting primarily of $4.0 million in administrative
and professional costs to wind-up company operations over the next three years and $2.7 million in
other estimated costs and settlement reserves during liquidation for anticipated expenses or claims
against Global Preferred. In order to reflect the liquidation basis of accounting, Global
Preferred increased the value of its net assets in liquidation by $8.4 million from the amount of
stockholders  equity at May 25, 2005 to reflect management s best estimates of the Global
Preferred s assets and liabilities at their net realizable or settlement values. The net increase
in the value of net assets resulted from the following:

As of  

(Dollars in Thousands)  
       
      May 26, 2005  

Assets held for sale adjusted to estimated fair value

$ 
     16,352.3 

Estimated future investment income

236.8 

Elimination of prepaid expenses

(934.5 
     ) 

Fixed assets adjusted to estimated fair value

(17.1 
     ) 

Elimination of deferred tax asset, net

(694.4 
     ) 

Reduction of accrued expenses

196.6 

Estimated future operating costs and settlement reserves during liquidation

(6,695.0 
     ) 

Total adjustment of assets and liabilities at estimated fair value to
change to liquidation basis

$ 
     8,444.7 

The fair market value of the 4,503,274 shares of AEGON common stock as of the close of the
markets on May 25, 2005 amounted to $58.9 million. The net
book value of the assets of Global Preferred Re as of the
close of business on May 25, 2005 amounted to $42.5 million, resulting in a gain of $16.4 million.
In accordance with the liquidation basis of accounting, the gain was reported as an adjustment to
the net assets in liquidation on the accompanying statement of changes in net assets in
liquidation. If Global Preferred had not adopted the liquidation basis of accounting as of May 26,
2005, the gain would have been reported on the consolidated statement of income as other income for
the year ended December 31, 2005.

On July 6, 2005, Global Preferred s board of directors approved the distribution of all
4,503,274 AEGON common shares to stockholders of record as of June 1, 2005. On July 8, 2005,
Global Preferred initiated the distribution of the AEGON common shares in whole shares. Fractional
AEGON common shares remaining from the distribution of whole shares were liquidated and the cash
totaling approximately $8,000 was distributed to the Global Preferred stockholders in December
2005.

The distribution of the AEGON common shares was recorded in the liquidation basis financial
statements during the third quarter of 2005 at a value of $57,957,136, or $12.87 per share which
was equal to the market value per share as of June 30, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, Global
Preferred has 911 AEGON common shares which are held on behalf of stockholders who have not claimed
their ownership. Those shares are recorded as dividends payable in the liquidation basis financial
statements as of December 31, 2005 at $16.32 per share, the market value as of that date, along
with the cash dividends received from AEGON for those remaining shares which are also to be
distributed.

F-16

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

The table presented below summarizes the estimated future operating costs and settlement
reserves as of May 26, 2005 and the actual costs that have been paid or incurred during the period
May 26, 2005 through December 31, 2005.

Periodically, the board of directors reviews management s best estimates of the liability for
estimated future operating costs and settlement reserves and makes adjustments as necessary.
Because the establishment of the estimated value of assets, liabilities and reserves involves
considerable judgment and estimation, it is likely that the actual proceeds from the realization of
assets, the actual settlement of liabilities and the actual outcome of the resolutions of any
contingencies will differ from management s estimates at this time, and those differences may be
significant.

4. 
       
     Investments 

Due to the sale of Global Preferred Re and the dissolution of Global Preferred, during the
third quarter of 2005, Global Preferred restructured its investment portfolio to invest in higher
quality and shorter duration investments over the remaining dissolution period. Global Preferred
sold its portfolio of fixed maturity securities for $2.4 million and used the proceeds to purchase
United States treasury notes. Additionally, cash of $2.1 million was used to purchase $2.1 million
of United States treasury bills, which are classified as cash equivalents.

As of December 31, 2005, all of Global Preferred s investments were held at fair market value.
The major categories of investments consist of the following:

The equity securities represent the remaining AEGON common shares which are held on behalf of
stockholders who have not claimed their ownership.

F-17

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

Prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re, major categories of net investment income consisted
of the following:

The following table shows the amortized cost; unrealized gains and losses; total estimated
fair values; and estimated fair values for investments with unrealized losses for fixed maturity
and equity securities, available for sale at December 31, 2004. The number of available for sale
securities with unrealized losses was 16 at December 31, 2004. None of these investments had been
in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or more. The largest unrealized loss by dollar amount
on a single security was $12,636, or 2.6% of fair value of the security at December 31, 2004. All
of the unrealized losses on investments were caused by increases in market interest rates. The
contractual terms of these investments did not permit the issuer to settle the securities at a
price less than the amortized cost of the investment. As of December 31, 2004, none of Global
Preferred s investments were deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired.

There were no investments in any entity in excess of 10% of stockholders  equity at December
31, 2004. Fixed maturity securities were valued based upon quoted market prices.

At December 31, 2004, the contractual maturities of investments in fixed maturity securities
were as follows:

Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because some issuers have the
right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.

F-18

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

Proceeds from sales of fixed maturity securities available for sale for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2004, and for the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005 were $421,282, $1,029,185
and $532,540, respectively. Sales of equity securities were $2,009,731 in 2004. No sales of
equity securities occurred in 2003 or during the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005. Components of
realized gains and losses are summarized in the following table:

Changes in net unrealized gains (losses) on available for sale securities were $76,070,
($14,127) and ($108,884) for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 and for the 145 day period
ended May 25, 2005, respectively.

5. Policy Liabilities

Prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re, changes in the liability for unpaid policy claims
were summarized as follows:

The amount of claims incurred during the year related to the prior year were primarily the
result of the number of deaths that occurred late in the prior year, usually December, which were
then reported early in the following year, usually January. This represented the normal lag
associated with when a death occurred and when Global Preferred Re was notified of the death and
varied depending on the number of deaths occurring late in any given
year. These unpaid policy claims were included in the liability for future policy benefits on
the consolidated balance sheets.

6. Reinsurance

As of May 25, 2005, prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re, Global Preferred Re had seven
reinsurance contracts and one retrocession agreement. All policies reinsured under the reinsurance
agreements were self-administered by the ceding life companies. The ceding life companies provided
Global Preferred Re with all information necessary for processing the reinsurance, including
claims. The reinsurance information below was gathered for the respective time periods prior to
the sale of Global Preferred Re.

F-19

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

The net effect of all reinsurance agreements on premiums and policy revenues was as follows:

The net effect of all reinsurance agreements on benefits, claims and settlement expenses was
as follows:

The impact of reinsurance on life insurance in force was as follows (in millions):

In July 2001, Global Preferred and World Financial Group, Inc. ( World Financial Group)
entered into an amended directed reinsurance agreement, whereby World Financial Group would, for a
period extending through June 8, 2008, use commercially reasonable best efforts to assist Global
Preferred in attaining the opportunity to reinsure all insurance products sold by its agents for
insurance companies with which World Financial Group has selling agreements, other than Western
Reserve Life Assurance Co. of Ohio ( Western Reserve ) and Western Reserve s affiliates. Also in
July 2001, Global Preferred entered into the First Right Agreement with Western Reserve that
provided Global Preferred Re a first right to reinsure certain new products issued by Western
Reserve or its U.S. affiliates that were sold by agents associated with World Financial Group.
These rights automatically extended for one-year renewal periods unless either party gave notice of
termination 180 days prior to the expiration of the applicable initial or renewal term. Concurrent
with the closing of the sale of Global Preferred Re, Global Preferred assigned all of its rights
under the directed reinsurance agreement and the first right agreement to Global Preferred Re.

F-20

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

7. Deferred Acquisition Costs

The amount of policy acquisition costs deferred and amortized was as follows for the
respective time periods prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re:

8. Income Tax

Effective January 1, 1996, Global Preferred Re made an irrevocable election to be treated as a
domestic insurance company for United States federal income tax purposes under Section 953(d) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). As a result of this  domestic 
election, Global Preferred Re was subject to U.S. taxation on its worldwide income as if it were a
U.S. corporation. Prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re, Global Preferred determined its income
tax expense and liability in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes .

Total income tax expenses (benefits) for the respective time periods prior to the sale of
Global Preferred Re were allocated as follows:

The federal income tax expense for the respective time periods prior to the sale of Global
Preferred Re was as follows:

F-21

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

The income tax expense for the respective time periods prior to the sale of Global Preferred
Re differed from the amounts computed by applying the U.S. federal income tax rate of 34% to income
before income taxes as a result of the following:

During the year ended December 31, 2004 and the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005, Global
Preferred was able to benefit from the  small life insurance company deduction  available under
Section 806 of the Code at rates less than 34%.

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the
carrying values of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and federal income tax
purposes. The net deferred tax liability at December 31, 2004 was composed of the following
amounts:

There were no valuation allowances for deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2004. The
deferred tax assets were transferred with the sale of Global Preferred Re. At December 31, 2004,
Global Preferred had net operating loss carry-forwards for income tax purposes of $1.3 million,
which begin to expire in 2018.

9. Related Party Transactions

In July of 1999, Global Preferred issued a $5.0 million convertible note, due July 29, 2004,
to Money Services, Inc., a subsidiary of AEGON USA, Inc. The note bore simple interest at a rate
of 7.5% per year and was convertible into 312,750 shares of Global Preferred common stock. Global
Preferred repaid the note in full, plus outstanding interest of $187,500, on July 29, 2004.

In 1995, Global Preferred Re entered into an agreement with International Advisory Services,
Ltd. ( IAS ), formerly CFM Insurance Managers, Ltd. and a subsidiary of IAS Global Captive Group,
Ltd., which provided professional insurance management services to international companies
operating in Bermuda. C. Simon Scupham,

F-22

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

a director of Global Preferred and a director of Global Preferred Re, prior to the sale of
Global Preferred Re, is a director and Chairman of Shoreline Mutual Management Ltd., a member of
IAS Global Captive Group, Ltd., which is also the holding company for IAS. Pursuant to this
agreement, IAS acted as the managing agent and the Principal Representative for Global Preferred Re
in Bermuda through the closing of the sale of Global Preferred Re. Global Preferred Re paid
$60,000 in fees during each of the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 and $24,011 for the 145
day period ended May 25, 2005, pursuant to the agreement with IAS.

Global Preferred has a written employment agreement with its remaining executive officer.
This agreement governs employee conduct and Global Preferred s compensation obligations to the
officer. The stated terms of the agreement provide for expiration on the earlier of May 25, 2006
or the date of the transfer of the remaining assets of Global Preferred to a liquidating trust.
Under the terms of this employment agreement, the transactions consummated in the Reorganization
Agreement as described in Note 1 constituted a  change of control  and the remaining executive
officer of Global Preferred will be entitled to various benefits. As of December 31, 2005, it is
estimated that these benefits will be approximately $200,000.

On July 6, 2005, Global Preferred entered into transition agreements with certain of its
former executive officers, other than the remaining executive officer described in the preceding
paragraph. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, each of these employees resigned as an
officer of Global Preferred, but continued as an employee until August 19, 2005 to assist with the
wind-up and dissolution of Global Preferred. In addition, the transition agreements amended the
employment agreement of each of the respective executive officers to modify the restrictive
covenants of the employment agreement to permit such employee to own and participate in the
operations of a non-affiliated company formed by those executive officers. As disclosed in their
respective transition agreements, the severance amounts shall be paid in accordance with Global
Preferred s regular payroll practices, provided that (i) Global Preferred may, in its sole
discretion, at any time elect to pay any remaining installments in a lump sum and (ii) Global
Preferred agrees that any installments remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer of the
remaining assets of Global Preferred to a liquidating trust will be paid to those officers prior to
such transfer. The severance amounts remaining to be paid to those certain executive officers as
of December 31, 2005 total $757,000 and are included in the estimated future operating costs and
settlement reserves during liquidation period on the statement of net assets in liquidation.

10. Statutory Restrictions

During the period of its ownership by Global Preferred, Global Preferred Re was a Bermuda
company registered as a long-term insurer under the Bermuda Insurance Act 1978 (the  Insurance
Act ) and, as such, was subject to the restrictions of the Insurance Act. Statutory assets and
liabilities referred to those assets and liabilities recorded on the statutory balance sheet
required by the Insurance Act. Under the Insurance Act, Global Preferred Re:

Was required to maintain the required minimum solvency margin (the value of
its long-term business assets exceed the amount of its long-term business liabilities
by at least $250,000) and was prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends during
any financial year if it was in breach of its minimum solvency margin or if the
declaration or payment of such dividends would have caused it to fail to meet such
margin; 

Was prohibited, without the approval of the Bermuda Monetary Authority,
from reducing its total statutory capital as set out in its previous year s financial
statements by 15% or more in a single financial year; 

Was required to establish and maintain a segregated long-term business
fund; and 

Was prohibited from declaring or paying a dividend to any person other than
a policyholder unless the value of the assets of its long-term business fund as
certified by Global Preferred Re s approved actuary, exceeded the extent (as so
certified) of the liabilities of Global Preferred Re s long-term business. The amount
of any such dividend could not exceed the aggregate of the excess referenced in the
preceding sentence and other funds properly available for the payment of dividends,
being funds arising out of its business, other than its long-term business. 

F-23

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

Global Preferred Re was required to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 1981 (the
 Companies Act ) regulating the declaration and payment of dividends and making distributions from
contributed surplus and reductions of capital. Global Preferred Re could not declare or pay a
dividend, or make a distribution out of contributed surplus, if there were reasonable grounds for
believing that: the company was, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as
they became due; or the realizable value of the company s assets would have been less than the
aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts. The
Companies Act further regulated the return of capital, and repurchases and redemptions of shares by
Global Preferred Re.

Prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re, Global Preferred relied primarily on funds retained
at the holding company level, dividends and other permitted payments, such as debt service
payments, from Global Preferred Re to meet ongoing cash requirements. As of December 31, 2004 and
March 31, 2005, Global Preferred Re had total statutory capital and surplus of $28.0 million and
$28.4 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 and the quarter ended
March 31, 2005, Global Preferred Re had statutory net income of $10.5 million, $5.3 million and
$1.0 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2005, Global Preferred Re had $13.1 million available
to distribute in dividends without seeking regulatory approval. During 2005, Global Preferred Re
paid $932,064 in dividends to Global Preferred.

11. Commitments and Contingencies

From time to time Global Preferred may be subject to litigation and arbitration in the normal
course of business. Management is unaware of any claims, whether asserted or unasserted, that
would give rise to litigation or arbitration that would have a material adverse effect on its
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In October 2002, Global Preferred entered into a lease agreement for office space in Duluth,
Georgia. The initial lease term, as amended, was thirty-six months, with the option to extend the
term an additional thirty-nine months, expiring in January 2009. Global Preferred exercised the
right to terminate the lease and vacated the premises effective October 14, 2005. Total lease
expense for the office space for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $123,638, which included a
termination fee of $23,129.

In October 2002, Global Preferred entered into an operating lease with ePlus, Inc. The lease
consisted of three schedules for the lease of office furniture, copier and computer equipment, and
telecommunications equipment. The term of each schedule began either December 31, 2002 or January
31, 2003 and expired 36 months thereafter on either December 31, 2005 or January 31, 2006. Global
Preferred exercised its option to return the furniture and office equipment under the operating
lease in October 2005. Total lease expense for the operating lease for year ended December 31,
2005 was $47,094, which included $6,161 for shipping costs to return the leased items.

Under its reinsurance agreements, Global Preferred Re obtained letters of credit in favor of
unaffiliated insurance companies with whom it had reinsurance agreements. The posting of a letter
of credit allowed the ceding life company to take statutory reserve credit for reinsurance ceded,
which would have otherwise not been available as Global Preferred Re was not a licensed reinsurer
by the ceding life company s state of domicile. At May 25, 2005, the outstanding letters of credit
totaled $5.85 million. The letters of credit were issued by Global Preferred Re s custodian and
secured by Global Preferred Re s investments held by the custodian.

Liabilities for future policy benefits under modified coinsurance agreements equaled reinsured
policy account balances on the underlying life insurance and annuity policies reinsured by Global
Preferred Re, prior to the sale. With regard to the separate account benefits reinsured on a
modified coinsurance basis, liabilities were recorded as an offset to related assets as the
intentions and rights under the agreements with the ceding life companies met the appropriate
conditions governing rights of setoff. Separate account benefits and related assets reinsured on a
modified coinsurance basis totaled $280.9 million as of December 31, 2004.

F-24

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

12. Current Maturities and Long-Term Debt

In July 1999, Global Preferred issued a $5.0 million, five-year convertible term note to Money
Services, Inc. due on July 29, 2004. Money Services is a subsidiary of AEGON USA, Inc. Proceeds
of this note were used to reduce a portion of the outstanding principal balance on a line of credit
with Money Services. Interest was payable at 7.5% per annum (except in the event of redemption),
on the 29 th  of each succeeding January and July through and including July 29, 2004. On
July 29, 2004, Global Preferred repaid the note plus accrued interest of $187,500. As of December
31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, Global Preferred had no amounts payable for long-term debt.

13. Comprehensive Income

The following table sets forth the amounts of other comprehensive income (loss) along with the
related tax effects allocated to other comprehensive income (loss) for the respective time periods
prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re:

14. Segment Reporting

Prior to the sale of Global Preferred Re on May 25, 2005, Global Preferred defined reportable
segments based on the nature of its reinsurance agreements and the accounting treatment used for
the various reinsurance agreements. Based on this definition, two reportable segments were
identified: non-universal life-type agreements and universal life-type agreements (as each is
referenced in SFAS No. 97,  Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain
Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments , paragraphs
44 and 45). Global Preferred Re reinsured certain variable universal life insurance policies on a
renewable term basis, which were reported below as Non-Universal Life-Type Agreements and, as such,
these revenues were classified as premium revenue. Renewable term reinsurance involves the
reinsurance of mortality risk whereby premiums are not directly related to the premium rates on the
original plan of insurance. Global Preferred Re s renewable term agreements were accounted for
under SFAS No. 60,  Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises . Global Preferred Re
reinsured variable annuity contracts and certain other variable universal life insurance policies
on a coinsurance and modified coinsurance basis, which were reported below as Universal Life-Type
Agreements and, as such, these revenues were classified as reinsured policy revenues. Coinsurance
involves the reinsurance of mortality and investment risks on the same basis as that of the
underlying policies. The ceding life companies and Global Preferred Re shared in these risks on a
pro rata basis. Global Preferred Re s coinsurance and modified coinsurance agreements were
accounted for under SFAS No. 97.

F-25

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

Items not directly related to the business segments and unallocated corporate items (i.e.,
other income, interest expense on corporate debt and unallocated operating expenses) were shown
separately, consistent with Global Preferred s internal measurement process. Segment assets
reported included those assets directly attributable to the reinsurance agreements such as
reinsurance balances receivable, deferred acquisition costs, policy loans, prepaid expenses,
invested assets and cash. Cash and invested assets were allocated to the agreements based upon
statutory reserves, the letters of credit posted in support of the statutory reserves held,
statutory receivables and allocated surplus, which was consistent with Global Preferred s internal
measurement process.

* 
       
     Benefits, claims and settlement expenses include change in future policy benefits. 

F-26

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

* 
       
     Benefits, claims and settlement expenses include change in future policy benefits. 

* 
       
     Benefits, claims and settlement expenses include change in future policy benefits. 

F-27

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

During the years ended 2003 and 2004 and the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005, the
percentage of total premiums and reinsured policy revenues that related to business issued by
Western Reserve was 92%. The percentages of the total underwriting profit that related to business
issued by Western Reserve for 2003 and 2004 and the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005 were 95%, 91%
and 94%, respectively.

For the 145 day period ended May 25, 2005, Global Preferred estimated that 45% of variable
universal life premiums and 39% of variable annuity premiums, written through Western Reserve and
sold by agents associated with World Financial Group, originated in California.

15. Stock Options

In 2002, Global Preferred established the Global Preferred Holdings, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan
(the  Stock Incentive Plan ). The aggregate number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance
under the Stock Incentive Plan was 1.5 million shares. Awards granted under the Stock Incentive
Plan were nonqualified stock options. The term of the options, including vesting, exercise price
and expiration date, were determined by the Compensation Committee of the board of directors at the
date of the grant. No options were to be granted under the Stock Incentive Plan after July 30,
2012. In May 2003 and May 2004, the compensation committee of the board of directors granted
options to purchase an aggregate of 170,688 and 37,375 shares of common stock, respectively, to
certain employees in order to retain employees due to competitive market conditions and to provide
additional incentive to such persons to increase the value of Global Preferred s stock.

Also in 2002, Global Preferred adopted and the stockholders ratified the Global Preferred
Holdings, Inc. Directors Stock Option Plan (the  Directors Option Plan ). This plan was
subsequently amended and restated by the Board of Directors, which amendment and restatement was
ratified by the stockholders in June 2003. The aggregate number of shares of common stock reserved
for issuance under the Directors Option Plan was 280,000 shares. Options granted under the
Directors Option Plan generally vested over a 3 to 4 year period and the exercise price was not
less than the fair value of the shares of common stock subject to the options granted as of the
date of grant, as determined by the board of directors. No options were to be granted under the
Directors Option Plan after June 17, 2013. In June 2003 and July 2004, the non-employee directors
of Global Preferred were automatically granted options to purchase 78,625 and 5,000 shares of
Global Preferred s common stock, respectively.

The vesting of the outstanding employee and director options was accelerated effective upon
the closing of the sale of Global Preferred Re. Pursuant to the terms of the stock option plans,
all options outstanding under such plans were unilaterally canceled as of the effective date of the
sale of Global Preferred Re and on May 27, 2005, Global Preferred issued 57,464 shares of stock to
its employees and directors to settle the outstanding options on a net basis. The number of shares
issued was net of shares withheld for income tax withholding. The fair value of the stock issued
was $14.54 per share, which approximated the net book value of Global Preferred on that date, as
determined by the board of directors. Additional information with respect to stock option plan
activity is as follows:

F-28

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

Effective as of July 1, 2005, Global Preferred terminated the stock option plans. No options
were outstanding under either plan as of July 1, 2005.

16. Defined Contribution Pension Plans

Global Preferred sponsored a defined contribution pension plan covering substantially all of
its employees. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, contributions and costs amounted to 100% of an employee s
contribution up to 4% of the employee s salary (not to exceed a salary base per employee of
$200,000 in 2003, $205,000 in 2004 and $210,000 in 2005). The total costs were $39,401, $40,688
and $36,391 in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Effective December 30, 2005, Global Preferred
terminated the plan and is in the process of applying for a determination letter with the Internal
Revenue Service.

17. Subsequent Events

All remaining AEGON common shares unclaimed as of December 31, 2005 were distributed in
January 2006.

F-29

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

18. Parent Company Financial Information

Balance Sheet 
(Parent Company Only) 
(Going Concern Basis)

(1) 
       
     Eliminated on consolidation 

F-30

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

Statements of Income 
(Parent Company Only) 
(Going Concern Basis)

(1) 
       
     Eliminated on consolidation 

F-31

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.  
Notes to Financial Statements 
December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

Statements of Cash Flows 
(Parent Company Only) 
(Going Concern Basis)

(1)  
       
      Eliminated on consolidation 

F-32

<EX-2.1.1>
 2
 g00512exv2w1w1.htm
 EX-2.1.1 PLAN OF COMPLETE LIQUIDATION AND DISSOLUTION

EX-2.1.1 PLAN OF COMPLETE LIQUIDATION 

EXHIBIT 2.1.1 

PLAN OF COMPLETE LIQUIDATION AND DISSOLUTION 
OF 
GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC. 

This Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution (the  Plan ) is intended to accomplish the
complete liquidation and dissolution of Global Preferred Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation
(the  Company ), in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the
 General Corporation Law ) and Section 331 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
 Code ), as follows:

1. The Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board of Directors ) has adopted this Plan and
has presented the Plan to the Company s stockholders (the  Stockholders ) to take action on the
Plan. If the holders of a majority in voting power of the outstanding common stock (the  Common
Stock ) approve the adoption of this Plan, the Plan shall constitute the adopted Plan of the
Company as of the date on which such Stockholder approval is obtained (the  Adoption Date ). No
later than thirty (30) days following the Adoption Date, the Company shall file Form 966 with the
Internal Revenue Service.

2. Following the Adoption Date, the Company shall file with the Secretary of State of the
State of Delaware a certificate of dissolution (the  Certificate of Dissolution ) in accordance
with the General Corporation Law (the  Liquidation Date ). On the Liquidation Date, the Company
shall, as the Board of Directors, in its absolute discretion, deems necessary, appropriate or
desirable, obtain any certificates required from the Delaware tax authorities. The Board of
Directors is not required to make any distribution to the Company s Stockholders, if at all, until
after the Liquidation Date.

3. After the Liquidation Date, the Company shall not engage in any business activities except
to facilitate the Company s ability to preserve the values of its assets, wind up its business and
affairs, and distribute its assets in accordance with this Plan.

4. From and after the Liquidation Date, the Company shall complete the following corporate
actions:

(a) The Company shall determine whether and when to (i) transfer the Company s property and
assets (other than cash, cash equivalents and accounts receivable) to a liquidating trust
(established pursuant to Section 7 hereof), or (ii) collect, sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of
all of its property and assets in one or more transactions upon such terms and conditions as the
Board of Directors, in its absolute discretion, deems expedient and in the best interests of the
Company and the Stockholders. In connection with such collection, sale, exchange and other
disposition, the Company shall collect or make provision for the collection of all accounts
receivable, debts and claims owing to the Company.

(b) The Company shall pay or, as determined by the Board of Directors, make reasonable
provision to pay, all claims and obligations of the Company, including all contingent, conditional
or unmatured claims known to the Company and all claims which are known to the Company but for
which the identity of the claimant is unknown.

(c) The Company shall distribute pro rata to the Stockholders, all available cash including
the cash proceeds of any sale, exchange or disposition, except such cash, property or assets as are
required for paying or making reasonable provision for the claims and obligations of the Company.
Such distribution may occur all at once or in a series of distributions and shall be in cash, in
such amounts, and at such time or times, as the Board of Directors or the Trustees (as defined in
Section 7 hereof), in their absolute discretion, may determine. If and to the extent deemed
necessary, appropriate or

desirable by the Board of Directors or the Trustees, in their absolute discretion, the Company
may establish and set aside a reasonable amount (the  Contingency Reserve ) to satisfy claims
against the Company, including, without limitation, tax obligations, and all expenses of the sale
of the Company s property and assets, of the collection and defense of the Company s property and
assets, and of the liquidation and dissolution provided for in this Plan. The Contingency Reserve
may consist of cash and/or property.

(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may, if and when determined by the Board of
Directors or the Trustees, at any time after the Adoption Date (including at any time prior to the
Liquidation Date), either (i) distribute the shares of common stock of AEGON, N.V. (the  Aegon
Stock ) owned by the Company to the Stockholders pro rata as a dividend, or (ii) sell the shares of
Aegon Stock owned by the Company and use the proceeds to repay existing indebtedness of the
Company.

5. The distributions to the Stockholders pursuant to Sections 4, 7 and 8 hereof shall be in
complete redemption and cancellation of all of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company. As a
condition to receipt of any distribution to the Stockholders, the Board of Directors or the
Trustees, in their absolute discretion, may require the Stockholders to (i) surrender their
certificates evidencing the Common Stock to the Company or its agent for recording of such
distributions thereon or (ii) furnish the Company with evidence satisfactory to the Board of
Directors or the Trustees of the loss, theft or destruction of their certificates evidencing the
Common Stock, together with such surety bond or other security or indemnity as may be required by
and satisfactory to the Board of Directors or the Trustees ( Satisfactory Evidence and Indemnity ).
As a condition to receipt of any final distribution to the Stockholders, the Board of Directors or
the Trustees, in their absolute discretion, may require the Stockholders to (i) surrender their
certificates evidencing the Common Stock to the Company or its agent for cancellation or (ii)
furnish the Company with Satisfactory Evidence and Indemnity. The Company will finally close its
stock transfer books and discontinue recording transfers of Common Stock on the earliest date (the
 Final Record Date ) to occur of (i) the close of business on the record date fixed by the Board of
Directors for the final liquidating distribution, (ii) the close of business on the date on which
the remaining assets of the Company are transferred to the Trust or (iii) the date on which the
Company files its Certificate of Dissolution, and thereafter certificates representing Common Stock
will not be assignable or transferable on the books of the Company except by will, intestate
succession, or operation of law.

6. If any distribution to a Stockholder cannot be made, whether because the Stockholder cannot
be located, has not surrendered its certificates evidencing the Common Stock as required hereunder
or for any other reason, the distribution to which such Stockholder is entitled (unless transferred
to the Trust established pursuant to Section 7 hereof) shall be transferred, at such time as the
final liquidating distribution is made by the Company, to the official of such state or other
jurisdiction authorized by applicable law to receive the proceeds of such distribution. The
proceeds of such distribution shall thereafter be held solely for the benefit of and for ultimate
distribution to such Stockholder as the sole equitable owner thereof and shall be treated as
abandoned property and escheat to the applicable state or other jurisdiction in accordance with
applicable law. In no event shall the proceeds of any such distribution revert to or become the
property of the Company.

7. If deemed necessary, appropriate or desirable by the Board of Directors, in its absolute
discretion, in furtherance of the liquidation and distribution of the Company s assets to the
Stockholders, as a final liquidating distribution or from time to time, the Company shall transfer
to one or more liquidating trustees, for the benefit of the Stockholders (the  Trustees ), under a
liquidating trust (the  Trust ), any assets of the Company which are (i) not reasonably susceptible
to distribution to the Stockholders, including without limitation non-cash assets and assets held
on behalf of the Stockholders (a) who cannot be located or who do not tender their certificates
evidencing the Common Stock to the

-2-

Company or its agent as herein above required or (b) to whom distributions may not be made
based upon restrictions under contract or law, including, without limitation, restrictions of the
federal securities laws and regulations promulgated thereunder or (ii) held as the Contingency
Reserve. If assets are transferred to the Trust, each Stockholder on the Final Record Date shall
receive an interest (an  Interest ) in the Trust pro rata to its interest in the outstanding Common
Stock on that date. All distributions from the Trust will be made pro rata in accordance with the
Interests. The Interests shall not be transferable except by operation of law or upon death of the
recipient. The Board of Directors is hereby authorized to appoint one or more individuals,
corporations, partnerships or other persons, or any combination thereof, including, without
limitation, any one or more officers, directors, employees, agents or representatives of the
Company, to act as the initial Trustee or Trustees for the benefit of the Stockholders and to
receive any assets of the Company. Any Trustees appointed as provided in the preceding sentence
shall succeed to all right, title and interest of the Company of any kind and character with
respect to such transferred assets and, to the extent of the assets so transferred and solely in
their capacity as Trustees, shall assume all of the liabilities and obligations of the Company,
including, without limitation, any unsatisfied claims and unascertained or contingent liabilities.
Further, any conveyance of assets to the Trustees shall be deemed to be a distribution of property
and assets by the Company to the Stockholders for the purposes of Section 4 of this Plan. Any such
conveyance to the Trustees shall be in trust for the Stockholders of the Company. The Company,
subject to this Section 7 and as authorized by the Board of Directors, in its absolute discretion,
may enter into a liquidating trust agreement with the Trustees, on such terms and conditions as the
Board of Directors, in its absolute discretion, may deem necessary, appropriate or desirable.
Adoption of this Plan by the holders of a majority in voting power of the outstanding Common Stock
shall constitute the approval of the Stockholders of any such appointment and any such liquidating
trust agreement as their act and as a part hereof as if herein written.

8. Whether or not a Trust shall have been previously established pursuant to Section 7, in the
event it should not be feasible for the Company to make the final distribution to the Stockholders
of all assets and properties of the Company prior to June 1, 2008 (the  Final Distribution Date ),
then, on or before such date, the Company shall be required to establish a Trust and transfer any
remaining assets and properties (including, without limitation, any uncollected claims, contingent
assets and the Contingency Reserve) to the Trustees as set forth in Section 7.

9. Adoption of this Plan by holders of a majority of the outstanding Common Stock shall
constitute the approval of the Stockholders of the sale, exchange or other disposition in
liquidation of all of the property and assets of the Company, whether such sale, exchange or other
disposition occurs in one transaction or a series of transactions, and shall constitute
ratification of all contracts for sale, exchange or other disposition which are conditioned on
adoption of this Plan.

10. In connection with and for the purpose of implementing and assuring completion of this
Plan, the Company may, in the absolute discretion of the Board of Directors, pay any brokerage,
agency, professional and other fees and expenses of persons rendering services to the Company in
connection with the collection, sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company s property and
assets and the implementation of this Plan.

11. In connection with and for the purpose of implementing and assuring completion of this
Plan, the Company may, in the absolute discretion of the Board of Directors, pay to the Company s
officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives, or any of them, compensation or
additional compensation above their regular compensation, in money or other property, in
recognition of the extraordinary efforts they, or any of them, will be required to undertake, or
actually undertake, in connection with the implementation of this Plan. Adoption of this Plan by
the holders of a majority in voting power of the outstanding Common Stock shall constitute the
approval of the Stockholders of the payment of any such compensation.

-3-

12. The Company shall indemnify its officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives
in accordance with its certificate of incorporation, by-laws and any contractual arrangements, for
actions taken in connection with this Plan and the winding up of the affairs of the Company. The
Company s obligation to indemnify such persons may also be satisfied out of the assets of the
Trust. The Trust will similarly be authorized to indemnify the Trustees and any employees, agents
or representatives of the Trust for actions taken in connection with the operations of the Trust.
Any claims arising in respect of such indemnification will be satisfied out of the assets of the
Trust. The Board of Directors and the Trustees, in their absolute discretion, are authorized to
obtain and maintain insurance as may be necessary or appropriate to cover the Company s obligations
hereunder.

13. Notwithstanding authorization or consent to this Plan and the transactions contemplated
hereby by the Stockholders, the Board of Directors may modify, amend or abandon this Plan and the
transactions contemplated hereby without further action by the Stockholders to the extent permitted
by the Delaware General Corporation Law.

14. The Board of Directors of the Company is hereby authorized, without further
action by the Stockholders, to do and perform or cause the officers of the Company, subject to
approval of the Board of Directors, to do and perform, any and all acts, and to make, execute,
deliver or adopt any and all agreements, resolutions, conveyances, certificates and other documents
of every kind which are deemed necessary, appropriate or desirable, in the absolute discretion of
the Board of Directors, to implement this Plan and the transactions contemplated hereby, including,
without limiting the foregoing, all filings or acts required by any state or federal law or
regulation to wind up its affairs.

-4-

</EX-2.1.1>

<EX-3.1.5>
 3
 g00512exv3w1w5.htm
 EX-3.1.5 CERTIFICATE OF DISSOLUTION OF REGISTRANT

EX-3.1.5 CERTIFICATE OF DISSOLUTION OF REGISTRANT 

EXHIBIT 3.1.5 

CERTIFICATE OF DISSOLUTION 
OF 
GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC. 

Global Preferred Holdings, Inc. (the  Corporation ), a corporation organized and existing
under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware does hereby certify as
follows:

FIRST: The name of the Corporation is Global Preferred Holdings, Inc.

SECOND: The dissolution was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on
December 30, 2004. The dissolution was authorized by the stockholders of the Corporation on May
10, 2005.

THIRD: That the dissolution of the Corporation was duly authorized by the Board of Directors
and the stockholders of the Corporation in accordance with the provisions of Section 275(a) and (b)
of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.

FOURTH: That the names and addresses of the directors of the Corporation are as follows:

FIFTH: That the names and addresses of the officers of the Corporation are as follows:

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate to be executed by its
authorized officer, this 26 th  day of May, 2005.

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ Edward F. McKernan

Name:   
     Edward F. McKernan  

Title:   
     Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-3.1.5>

<EX-10.22>
 4
 g00512exv10w22.htm
 EX-10.22 THIRD RENEWAL OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

EX-10.22 THIRD RENEWAL OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 

EXHIBIT 10.22 

Third Renewal of the    
  Employment Agreement   
  of Bradley E. Barks  

THIS THIRD RENEWAL of that certain Employment Agreement, made effective as of March 4, 2002,
as previously renewed and amended ( Original Agreement ), by and between Global Preferred Holdings,
Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and Bradley E. Barks ( You  or  Your , and together
with the Company, collectively referred to as the  Parties ) is made effective as of the 1st day of
January, 2005 between the Parties.

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Parties each desire to renew the Original Agreement, as set forth herein;

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual premises contained herein, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are acknowledged by the Parties
hereto, the Parties, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:

1.  Defined Terms . All defined terms in the Original Agreement shall have the same
meaning herein unless the context requires otherwise or unless redefined herein.

2.  Renewal and Term of Employment . This Third Renewal shall serve as a written renewal
of the Original Agreement as required by Section 3 of that Original Agreement in order to extend
the term of Your employment. You shall continue to serve as Chief Financial Officer and Senior
Vice President of the Company and have those duties set forth in Section 1 of the Original
Agreement until December 31, 2005 (such additional term to be referred to as a  Renewal Term  which
shall be included in the definition of  Employment Period  for the purposes of the Original
Agreement), subject to the terms and conditions regarding termination or expiration as described in
the Original Agreement.

3.  Amendment to Section 5B . Section 5B of the original Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such section in its entirety and substituting in its place the following:

B. If, following a Change of Control, this Agreement terminates for the
reasons set forth in sub-sections 4E(6), 4F or 4G of this Agreement, then
the Company shall pay You a separation payment equal to twelve (12) months
Base Salary in effect as of the date of termination, payable over a period
of twelve (12) months in accordance with the Company s normal payroll
practices (or at the election of the Company, payable as a lump sum
payment), and any prorated Bonus payments (to the extent earned by You prior
to Your termination date). However, notwithstanding the forgoing, if the
aggregate amounts payable to You pursuant to this Section 5B, together with
any other payments made to You or on Your behalf by the Company as a result
of such Change of Control, would cause You to receive aggregate  parachute
payments  (as defined in Section 280G(b)(2)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the  Code )) exceeding three (3) times Your  base
amount  (as defined in Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code), then the aggregate
amounts payable to You pursuant to this Section 5B shall be reduced until
Your aggregate  parachute payments  do not exceed three (3) times Your  base
amount.   

4.  Choice of Law . This Third Renewal will be governed by the internal law, and not
the laws of conflicts, of the State of Georgia.

5.  Remaining Provisions . All other terms and conditions of the Original Agreement not
modified by this Third Renewal shall remain as originally set forth in the Original Agreement.

6.  Counterparts . This Third Renewal may be executed in multiple counterparts with the
same effect as if all signing parties had signed the same document. All counterparts shall be
construed together and constitute the same instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Third Renewal as of the date first
set forth herein above.

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.   

By:

/s/ Edward F. McKernan 

Edward F. McKernan 

Chief Executive Officer 

/s/ Bradley E. Barks 

BRADLEY E. BARKS 

</EX-10.22>

<EX-10.23>
 5
 g00512exv10w23.htm
 EX-10.23 THIRD RENEWAL OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

EX-10.23 THIRD RENEWAL OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 

EXHIBIT 10.23 

Third Renewal of the    
  Employment Agreement   
  of Caryl P. Shepherd  

THIS THIRD RENEWAL of that certain Employment Agreement, made effective as of February 1,
2002, as previously renewed ( Original Agreement ), by and between Global Preferred Holdings, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and Caryl P. Shepherd ( You  or  Your , and together with
the Company, collectively referred to as the  Parties ) is made effective as of the 1st day of
January, 2005 between the Parties.

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Parties each desire to renew the Original Agreement, as set forth herein;

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual premises contained herein, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are acknowledged by the Parties
hereto, the Parties, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:

1.      Defined Terms . All defined terms in the Original Agreement shall have the same
meaning herein unless the context requires otherwise or unless redefined herein.

2.      Renewal and Term of Employment . This Third Renewal shall serve as a written renewal
of the Original Agreement as required by Section 3 of that Original Agreement in order to extend
the term of Your employment. You shall continue to serve as Chief Accounting Officer, Controller
and a Vice President of the Company and have those duties set forth in Section 1 of the Original
Agreement until December 31, 2005 (such additional term to be referred to as a  Renewal Term  which
shall be included in the definition of  Employment Period  for the purposes of the Original
Agreement), subject to the terms and conditions regarding termination or expiration as described in
the Original Agreement.

3.      Amendment to Section 5B . Section 5B of the original Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such section in its entirety and substituting in its place the following:

B. If, following a Change of Control, this Agreement terminates for the
reasons set forth in sub-sections 4E(6), 4F or 4G of this Agreement, then
the Company shall pay You a separation payment equal to twelve (12) months
Base Salary in effect as of the date of termination, payable over a period
of twelve (12) months in accordance with the Company s normal payroll
practices (or at the election of the Company, payable as a lump sum
payment), and any prorated Bonus payments (to the extent earned by You prior
to Your termination date). However, notwithstanding the forgoing, if the
aggregate amounts payable to You pursuant to this Section 5B, together with
any other payments made to You or on Your behalf by the Company as a result
of such Change of Control, would cause You to receive aggregate  parachute
payments  (as defined in Section 280G(b)(2)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the  Code )) exceeding three (3) times Your  base
amount  (as defined in Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code), then the aggregate
amounts payable to You pursuant to this Section 5B shall be reduced until
Your aggregate  parachute payments  do not exceed three (3) times Your  base
amount.   

4.  Choice of Law . This Third Renewal will be governed by the internal law, and not
the laws of conflicts, of the State of Georgia.

5.  Remaining Provisions . All other terms and conditions of the Original Agreement not
modified by this Third Renewal shall remain as originally set forth in the Original Agreement.

6.  Counterparts . This Third Renewal may be executed in multiple counterparts with the
same effect as if all signing parties had signed the same document. All counterparts shall be
construed together and constitute the same instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Third Renewal as of the date first
set forth herein above.

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.   

By:

/s/ Edward F. McKernan 

Edward F. McKernan 

Chief Executive Officer 

/s/ Caryl P. Shepherd 

CARYL P. SHEPHERD 

</EX-10.23>

<EX-10.24>
 6
 g00512exv10w24.htm
 EX-10.24 THIRD AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

EX-10.24 THIRD AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 

EXHIBIT 10.24 

Third Amendment of the    
  Employment Agreement   
  of Edward F. McKernan  

THIS THIRD AMENDMENT of that certain Employment Agreement, made effective as of January 1,
2002, as previously renewed and amended ( Original Agreement ), by and between Global Preferred
Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and Edward F. McKernan ( You  or  Your ,
and together with the Company, collectively referred to as the  Parties ) is made effective as of
the 1st day of January, 2005 between the Parties.

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Parties each desire to renew the Original Agreement, as set forth herein;

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual premises contained herein, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are acknowledged by the Parties
hereto, the Parties, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:

1.  Defined Terms . All defined terms in the Original Agreement shall have the same
meaning herein unless the context requires otherwise or unless redefined herein.

2.  Amendment to Section 5B . Section 5B of the original Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting such section in its entirety and substituting in its place the following:

B. If, following a Change of Control, this Agreement terminates for
the reasons set forth in sub-sections 4E(6), 4F or 4G of this Agreement,
then the Company shall pay You a separation payment equal to thirty-five
(35) months Base Salary in effect as of the date of termination, payable
over a period of twelve (12) months in accordance with the Company s normal
payroll practices (or at the election of the Company, payable as a lump sum
payment), and any prorated Bonus payments (to the extent earned by You prior
to Your termination date). However, notwithstanding the forgoing, if the
aggregate amounts payable to You pursuant to this Section 5B, together with
any other payments made to You or on Your behalf by the Company as a result
of such Change of Control, would cause You to receive aggregate  parachute
payments  (as defined in Section 280G(b)(2)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the  Code )) exceeding three (3) times Your  base
amount  (as defined in Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code), then the aggregate
amounts payable to You pursuant to this Section 5B shall be reduced until
Your aggregate  parachute payments  do not exceed three (3) times Your  base
amount.   

3.  Choice of Law . This Third Amendment will be governed by the internal law, and not
the laws of conflicts, of the State of Georgia.

4.  Remaining Provisions . All other terms and conditions of the Original Agreement not
modified by this Third Amendment shall remain as originally set forth in the Original Agreement.

5.  Counterparts . This Third Amendment may be executed in multiple counterparts with
the same effect as if all signing parties had signed the same document. All counterparts shall be
construed together and constitute the same instrument.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Third Amendment as of the date first
set forth herein above.

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.   

By:

/s/ Bradley E. Barks 

Bradley Barks 

Chief Financial Officer 

/s/ Edward F. McKernan 

EDWARD F. MCKERNAN 

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.25>
 7
 g00512exv10w25.htm
 EX-10.25 FOURTH RENEWAL OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

EX-10.25 FOURTH RENEWAL OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 

EXHIBIT 10.25 

Fourth Renewal of the    
  Employment Agreement   
  of Caryl P. Shepherd  

THIS FOURTH RENEWAL of that certain Employment Agreement, made effective as of February 1,
2002, as previously renewed ( Original Agreement ), by and between Global Preferred Holdings, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), and Caryl P. Shepherd ( You  or  Your , and together with
the Company, collectively referred to as the  Parties ) is made effective as of the 1st day of
January, 2006 between the Parties.

W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Parties each desire to renew the Original Agreement, as set forth herein;

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual premises contained herein, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are acknowledged by the Parties
hereto, the Parties, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:

1.  Defined Terms . All defined terms in the Original Agreement shall have the same
meaning herein unless the context requires otherwise or unless redefined herein.

2.  Renewal and Term of Employment . This Fourth Renewal shall serve as a written
renewal of the Original Agreement as required by Section 3 of that Original Agreement in order to
extend the term of Your employment. You shall continue to serve as Chief Accounting Officer,
Controller and a Vice President of the Company and have those duties set forth in Section 1 of the
Original Agreement until the earlier of (i) the date of the transfer of the remaining assets of the
Company to a liquidating trust or (ii) May 25, 2006 (such additional term to be referred to as a
 Renewal Term  which shall be included in the definition of  Employment Period  for the purposes of
the Original Agreement), subject to the terms and conditions regarding termination or expiration as
described in the Original Agreement, as amended.

3.  Retention Bonus . In addition to any compensation due to you pursuant to the
Original Agreement, as amended, the Company shall pay to you a retention bonus in the amount of
$20,000, provided you are continuously employed by the Company from the date hereof through the end
of the Renewal Term specified in Section 2 above. Payment of such retention bonus shall be made no
later than thirty (30) days following the end of the Renewal Term.

4.  Duties . The second sentence of Section 1A of the Original Agreement is hereby
deleted and the following substituted therefore:  You shall report to the Board of Directors of
the Company. 

5.  Choice of Law . This Fourth Renewal will be governed by the internal law, and not
the laws of conflicts, of the State of Georgia.

6.  Remaining Provisions . All other terms and conditions of the Original Agreement, as
previously amended, not modified by this Fourth Renewal shall remain as set forth in the Original
Agreement, as previously amended.

7.  Counterparts . This Fourth Renewal may be executed in multiple counterparts with
the same effect as if all signing parties had signed the same document. All counterparts shall be
construed together and constitute the same instrument.

SIGNATURES ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Fourth Renewal as of the date first
set forth herein above.

GLOBAL PREFERRED HOLDINGS, INC.   

By:

/s/ Joseph F. Barone 

Joseph F. Barone 

Chairman of the Board of Directors 

/s/ Caryl P. Shepherd 

CARYL P. SHEPHERD 

</EX-10.25>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 g00512exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1 CERTIFICATION BY CARYL P. SHEPHERD, CAO

EX-31.1 CERTIFICATION BY CARYL P. SHEPHERD, CAO 

EXHIBIT
31.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, Caryl P. Shepherd, Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer) of Global Preferred Holdings, Inc., certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of the registrant; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     I am responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

c) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies in the design and material weakness in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006

/s/ Caryl P. Shepherd 

Caryl P. Shepherd  

Chief Accounting Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 g00512exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1 CERTIFICATION BY CARYL P. SHEPHERD, CAO

EX-32.1 CERTIFICATION BY CARYL P. SHEPHERD, CAO 

EXHIBIT
32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of Global Preferred Holdings, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form
10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on the date hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350,
as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

Date: March 31, 2006

/s/ Caryl P. Shepherd 

Caryl P. Shepherd  

Chief Accounting Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-32.1>

